[{"Title":"Pretty Mothman","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"130 out of 165 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  John Klein (Richard Gere), a Washington Post reporter, finds himself somehow drawn to a small town in West Virginia. In fact, his car dies, along with his cell phone and watch. He knocks on a nearby house to call for help, and the man who answers the door attacks him, saying Klein's been around three days in a row. But has he?Two years earlier, John's wife died from injuries sustained in a car wreck, and before she died, in an apparent delirium, she had been etching weird drawings. Could her drawings have some connection with this town?Based on true events, The Mothman Prophecies follows John through his search for the truth. People in the town report seeing a strange being - are they lying, or are they misinterpreting? Are they simply seeing UFOs, or is there more to the story? Intrepid reporter that he is, John wants to know more - although of course his thirst for knowledge is accompanied by a need to know what happened to his wife (why did the car crash?).Thrillers such as this one are hard to come by. It's not exactly a horror movie, but there are more than enough creepy moments to send a few chills reverberating through your body. It's a film that relies less on special effects than on such quaint ideals as character motivation and development and atmosphere. In fact, this movie's just brimming with atmosphere. We've all seen those cheesy movies in which a car runs out of gas along a desolate country road, and then BAM - some serial killers make dinner or belts out of the hapless occupants. But in this case, the monster is hardly ever seen, thereby heightening the scares.At the centerpiece is Gere as Klein. I've never, ever been a Gere fan; it seems to me he has one expression. He's never been terribly emotive and has been known in recent years more for the age disparity with his female costars than for anything else (they get younger, he stays the same old dude). Call him ruggedly handsome if you will, but vacuity is never really appealing.But this is not your typical Gere at all. He definitely turns in the best work of his career. Sure, he was appealing in Pretty Woman, but it was Julie Roberts' movie. Officer and a Gentleman? Ok, but that was Lou Gosset Jr.'s movie. Primal Fear? Red Corner? Runaway Bride? No, no, no. This is acting on a ledge for Gere. It's a true departure from the romantic comedies and the sly psuedo-mystery/dramas. Ordinarily, I would think such a movie would expose Gere for the terrible actor he is. But I would be wrong. This movie was so well written and directed that Gere rose to its level, rather than sinking it. That's a huge credit to him as an actor.Now, I need to differentiate between good acting and appeal. An actor can look good or be charming in a role and still be a bad actor; by contrast, an actor can look uncharming and turn in a great performance. But what's key is how the actor draws the audience in - do they sympathize with his plight? Are they on his side? How good of an actor he is will answer that question.Gere's Klein starts out as an average joe, and then we get to see him slowly descend into madness - we even descend a little with him. That vaunted atmosphere is so vibrant and realistic that we turn when he turns and feel things he feels. This is an absolute hallmark of excellent filmmaking (by Mark Pellington, whose only other big film was 1999's Arlington Road). The writing is crisp and eminently believable, and the acting in addition to Gere (including Laura Linney, Debra Messing, and Will Patton) is simply superb. And don't forget the prophecies part of the title, either; this Mothman entity issues warnings to whomever it deems worthy. Which sounds good, as long as one can interpret them correctly. Apparently, many have not.The story is based on actual events that took place in Point Pleasant, West Virginia, but this is no Amityville Horror story. With Amityville, one could distance oneself from the experiences of the family involved; we could say that it would never happen to us, it was only a movie. This is a little trickier with The Mothman Prophecies. It's a creepy, tingly movie that gets under your skin and crawls all over your heart.  "},{"Title":"Bad things just happen. We usually can't stop them.","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"67 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies is a solid thriller. It's supposedly based on true events, but even if it weren't, it would be worth a look. Richard Gere stars as a Washington Post reporter who inexplicably finds himself in a small West Virginia town where a series of strange goings-on have been happening. His wife was killed two years prior in a mysterious car accident, and there seems to be a connection between her death and the strange happenings in Point Pleasant. Holding the key behind the mystery seems to be a large moth-like creature who tends to show up in places where the loss of human life is about to occur. Gere meets up with several locals who claim to have seen the Mothman, and after a while this creature begins communicating with him. The creature warns people of tragedies about to strike (plane crashes, earthquakes), and Gere thinks this creature can even put him in contact with his dead wife. Gere is given a warning about an upcoming tragedy near Point Pleasant, but can he act in time to stop it? Or should he even try? The film is very moody and sullen. The direction and photography are top drawer, and they enhance the mood greatly. The acting is terrific, as well. I usually can't stand Gere, but he's great in this film. Laura Linney would seem miscast as a local cop, but by the end of the film, she will have proved how truly talented she is. Will Patton is outstanding as a local resident who has several run-ins with the Mothman until it drives him crazy.What exactly is the Mothman? According to this film, he's some type of oracle. He can see bad things that will happen, and he can even see through to the other side. Does he cause these tragedies? The film would seem to argue not. Though he may have caused the fatal car accident that took Gere's wife early on. Apparently the concept of the Mothman has been around for a while, but this film gives a pretty good explanation of it for those of us who had never heard of it before.The film came up short of its $40 million budget in theaters. I blame this on a terrible marketing campaign, and some bad reviews from the big name critics. Don't let their reviews scare you away. This film is very good. I was hooked after seeing only a couple minutes of it. It was the very effective scene where Gere and Patton first meet up at his home one evening. That was well done! Be warned, however. The film will likely leave you feeling very mortal, and maybe even depressed. There is a really cool new-age rock song during the credits that also adds to the mood.Consider this film a thinking man's Final Destination. The climactic scene at the end could have even wandered in from one of those movies. The Mothman Prophecies is worth about 8 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Horror Fans It's What We've Been Waiting For!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"88 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just got back from the first showing of the first day of release of The Mothman Prophecies, and I am left with only four short wordsGo see it. NOW!Simply put, The Mothman Prophecies is the scariest horror movie since RING, Since many Americans won't be able to see RING for quite some time, they should consider tasting another slice of the terror pie with Mothman. It's already a strong candidate for best horror film of 2002...and even as a hardcore genre fan, I'd have to put it on my list of favorite horror movies of all time.I had been fascinated by the Mothman myth since 1995, when I first read of its existence in a book of legends and folklore. Since then, I've often thought about making a horror film based on the story. And as you might guess, some one clearly beat me to the punch! The film takes some bizarre, allegedly true events that occurred in the mid-60s in Point Pleasant, West Viriginia and updates the strange phenomena to present day using a somewhat fictionalized story.Richard Gere plays John Klein (a character that I assume is based on real life author John Keel), a Washington Post reporter whose wife dies of a brain tumor shortly after a bizarre, seemingly unexplainable car accident. After she dies, he finds pictures she drew during her final days, pictures of a bizarre looking winged creature with glowing red eyes.Flash forward two years. Klein is on his way to meet the governor of Virginia, when his car breaks down. He goes to get help (I won't reveal the creepy details of this sequence) and learns that he is nowhere near his destination. Rather, in the space of 90 minutes he has somehow managed to travel 400 miles to Point Pleasant, West Virginia. There he encounters Sgt. Connie Parker (played by Laura Linney), who tells him of the many strange going ons in the town...specifically, the accounts of a bizarre creature from witnesses who are by all accounts reputable. She shows him a sketch that one witness drew of the creature, and it is nearly identical to the bizarre drawings Klein's wife had done before her death.You can probably guess where the film is headed from this point; in fact, that's part of the beauty. Astute viewers will always be one step ahead of the characters onscreen, and one step behind...The Mothman, or just director Mark Pellington. Each is pretty damn good at scaring people.Pellington his his second feature, Arlington Road, a top notch thriller along the lines of Rosemary's Baby. Here he goes for a more Twilight Zone approach, with the did it really happen? factor of films like The Amityville Horror, Snuff, and Cannibal Holocaust thrown in for very, very good measure. Pellington has been gaining quite a bit of critical attention for this film, and rightfully so. If he keeps up, one can see Mark Pellington, Victor Salva, and Alejandro Amenbar doing for the horror/thriller genre what John Carpenter, Wes Craven, and Dario Argento did for it in the 70s.Some critics have been apt to attack the film for its reliance on classic horror movie conventions...as if this is a bad thing. It's quite ironic, considering that it is the film's good old fashioned sensibility that makes the proceedings so overwhelmingly effective. It does not rely on cheap scares, post-PC gore, or loud sound effects to jolt its audience. The film's power is rooted in its fundamentally chilling story, and taken to another level thanks to Pellington's assured direction. He never condescends to the audience, and he never goes for anything less than the extreme. He knows how to push audiences to the edge of their seat...and fortunately for horror fans, he does not know when to stop. Hitch would certainly be proud.Yet the best element of The Mothman Prophecies is that, like the films of Hitchock, it is intended for its audience, and continues to engage them long after rolling the end credits. The film has a wonderfully self-reflective structure, and a haunting ending (Owen Gleiberman's comparison of this film to Nicholas Roeg's Don't Look Now is much deserved). However, many questions are left unanswered. Many plot threads still hang. Like Bob Clark's unnerving Black Christmas, The Mothman Prophecies does not provide the closure that most mainstream audiences would demand. The audience is forced to think about the film, and what it means, long after it's over. Mark Pellington insures that the Mothman's glowing red eyes will indeed stay fixed in our brains alongside the film's other haunting imagery. So remember, grown ups and young people alike....sleep with the light on.My Grade A "},{"Title":"History Revised","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"89 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In 1966-67 a series of weird, supposedly supernatural, events occurred in or near Point Pleasant, West Virginia. Much of what happened centered on local residents' purported encounters with UFOs; confrontations with men-in-black; phone calls from entities whose voices sounded electronic (or metallic); and sightings of a winged, semi-human creature that came to be known as mothman. A few locals also were made privy to future predictions (prophecies), some of which in fact did materialize, but others didn't. One of the alleged predictions was a December, 1967 disaster that did occur, and which this film dramatizes.Available literature suggests a high probability that some, though by no means all, of the Point Pleasant events were the resulting activities of a practical joker, a prankster, by the name of Barker (who died in the 1980s). Other events appear to have been too bizarre and too widespread to be attributed to a lone carnival barker (pun intended).The Mothman Prophecies is not a very good factual account of the Point Pleasant events. Indeed, the film's setting is the present, not the 1960s, a fact which the film slyly evades. The filmmakers evidently decided to use part of the historical record, and then dramatize it, in a way that would have cinematic appeal to today's audiences.And so, the film aims to be a supernatural thriller, a suspenseful study in the theme of what is real vs. what is not real. There's lots of dark atmosphere with offbeat, gyrating camera shots, ominous music, and dialogue to match. The overall effect is one wherein unseen forces are lurking in the shadows.For some viewers, this supernatural tone thus provides intense escapist entertainment. For me, the hocus-pocus factor was too high, and the film exuded a sense of forced melodrama. Further, the film did not lead to any satisfactory resolution. What it did lead to was a nicely staged reenactment of the real life December, 1967 disaster.Maybe someday someone will make a documentary about the men-in-black element of the Point Pleasant events. If the underlying research is honest and thorough, the resulting film could illuminate a 1960s drama that, while not supernatural in nature, had, and still has, implications that are as scary as they are real. "},{"Title":"A cut down modernized Hollywood version of John A. Keel's famous UFO story.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"66 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" (**** out of *****)What a wonderful and rich role for Gere who should maybe experiment more in movies that deal with the realms of the unknown.A much respected reporter for the Washington Post John Klein (Richard Gere) is about to have his life turned upside down when his wife dies in an automobile accident that seems to have been caused by a mysterious flying creature which he never did see himself. The plot takes Gere to the Ohio/West Virginia border where he meets with the local residents who all seem to be having their troubles with strange lights, weird phone calls and a bird like creature which they call the Mothman. Klein investigates the mystery at the cost of his own sanity and career.The film is very scary but lacks the pace and fibre that made the John A. Keel's book an awe inspiring read. There are no Men In Black, UFO's, alien impregnated women, phone tapings or a clear resolution to some of the character's fate. In fact only about 10% of the book is actually reproduced in the film. The other 90% seems to have been plucked from an episode of the `X-files'... but what a good episode it is! This is a film that has high production values. The lighting, camerawork, sound and editing are always on top form which is something that prevents the movie from disappearing into the ranks of science fiction B movie hokum. `The Mothman Prophecies' looks simply `weirdly' gorgeous on the big screen.There is not enough Mothman revealed to the viewer but country folk Gordon Smallwood (the well cast and superbly acted Will Patton) creates a much needed conduit into the effects that the Mothman has on the people of Point Pleasant and this is what the film is really all about - The consequences that the supernatural can have on the psyche of a small backward town's population. Although the ending is Mothman free it certainly does jolt the emotions and evokes a sort of belittling sympathy for the human beings of this planet.Watch this film and then go read the book for a much better look at really went on. All in all, the film is a spine-chilling riveting stuff and well worth repeated viewing even though it never truly escapes its `X-Files' feeling.  "},{"Title":"In a word- EERIE!","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"52 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Bizarre, well-made supernatural thriller is all the more chilling for the fact that it's rooted in actual events.Washington reporter ends up in a small West Virginia town where a strange entity is foretelling of a disaster.Although many critics harpooned this film for its seemingly aimless storyline, it's really a forgivable thing since Mothman is such an atmospheric and slickly-directed film. The direction is artistically stunning, with lots of colorful and frightening visuals. The atmosphere is solidly dark and mysterious, with a number of truly spooky sequences - particularly Gere's phone call from the Mothman. And despite the fact that everything is not explained to us up front, after all who could place logic to this strange true story, the film is a pretty decent gripper. The grand climax is especially dramatic!The cast is fairly good, star Richard Gere probably being the best as our bewildered hero. The filming locations are good and the moody soundtrack is quite effective.For those who like their thrillers a touch on the X-Files side, The Mothman Prophecies is a terrific choice.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Great Suspense","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"53 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This gets high marks for suspense alone. It is a very tense movie, guaranteed to keep the first-time viewer glued to his/her seat. It might even raise a few hairs on the back of your neck!Dramatic music also helped with the suspense. In addition, we get some fine acting performances from Richard Gere, Laura Linney and Will Patton.Don't be fooled, however, with the based on a true story tag line. It might be based but that could mean only a very, very small part of this film was actual; the rest presented for dramatic purposes. This film is a good case of that, from what I've read.Nonetheless, it's interesting, has good visuals and decent sound and some genuine creepy moments. This definitely a film to have on DVD, as opposed to VHS, although I suppose at this point, few people buy tapes anymore anyway. Those looking to curl up on the couch with a good thriller give this movie a look. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"36 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Starting off promisingly with X-Files creepy events (deaths and visions) this young persons horror movie has a suitably tense edge. Based on a myth last discussed in great detail in the 60s, this is a modernised version of the legend of the Mothman, a mysterious figure who comes to people to foretell disastrous events. There is an air of Saturday night channel 5 about this film, but don't let that discourage you as its in the upper echelons of b-movie fair. Richard Gere is surprisingly entertaining as someone who essentially doesn't say much and just gets creeped-out.  A lot.  His character isn't that challenging for any actor, so there won't be any Oscar gongs headed his way for this. Laura Linney is excellent as the town sheriff, like someone straight out of Twin Peeks. The other characters are pretty much just there to move the plot along, rather than to catch your interest. The first half hour or so is entertainingly tense, but then the film lulls for the plot in the middle. The ending is satisfyingly and beautifully tidy, with a wonderful action sequence that clears up the vast majority of the weirdness from earlier on. The tight ending, while pleasurable and final is also one of the reasons that the movie isn't better than it is. There is no sensation upon leaving of question or edge. No concerns about turning the next corner for fear of what might be there. This is perhaps why this movie feels like Channel 5, and perhaps why its a 12 not a 15. Essentially its a creepy movie and not an out and out horror. "},{"Title":"About as eerie as it gets","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Based on actual events that occurred in the 60's. John and Mary Klein are a happy couple who have just purchased a new house. The excitement over their new place is short-lived when they have a car accident following the purchase. Mary winds up in the hospital with a head injury, but the CT scans reveal that she has something far worse wrong with her. She eventually dies, leaving a devastated John to discover that she had been drawing sketches of moth-like figures during her time at the hospital. A year passes, and John is scheduled to do an interview for his Washington Post job. On his drive to the interview, he mysteriously winds up in Point Pleasant, West Virginia with no recollection of how he got so far out of his way. Mysterious events are plaguing this small town, events that may be connected to what happened to his wife.I first saw this way back on opening night and loved it. As someone who is really into the unexplained, myths and legends, this film is right up my alley. The story of the Mothman is one of the most fascinating I've ever come across, and while The Mothman Prophecies takes a great deal of liberty with the story, it's a terrific film all the same.I've never cared for Richard Gere, but I fully admit that he's very good here. He nails the confused, distraught mental state of John Klein, and is very believable in the role. Laura Linney is also solid, though that's no surprise. The standout, though, is Will Patton. One of my favorite character actors, his portrayal of the rugged Gordon Smallwood, an individual who seems to have a deep connection to the Mothman, is absolutely perfect. This guy rarely fails to impress the hell out of me. He just has an awesome screen presence.The abnormal occurrences throughout the film certainly produce an unsettling atmosphere. Coupled with eerie imagery and surreal filming techniques, they help the film become quite nightmarish. The use of sound is most effective as well, with all sorts of bizarre noises being heard, including the odd screeching noise that the Mothman was said to have made in some of the real accounts. We also get a moody score that's a perfect fit for the film. Just listening to the soundtrack is guaranteed to give you chills. I know from experience. Speaking of chills, one of my favorite scenes is when Klein speaks with the Mothman entity, having dubbed itself Indrid Cold, on his motel room's phone. It's a wonderfully tense scene, and Cold's voice gets under your skin.The effects of the occurrences on the small town of Point Pleasant are well explored, as many different aspects and accounts are introduced. The town itself comes off as a bleak and unnerving place. Almost lifeless. The occurrences have basically killed off the town's livelihood. Gere's John Klein becomes increasingly paranoid the longer he stays in Point Pleasant, and when his dead wife appears to the sheriff, he becomes increasingly tortured. It isn't long before he's driven to a distant and isolated state of being, much like Gordon before him.The climactic scenes do not disappoint either. The scene where Klein realizes what is really going to happen makes for a powerful moment, and the final scenes on the Silver Bridge are as tense and suspenseful as they are exciting. It's a very well-done climax, both dramatically and from a technical standpoint. A fine way to finish the film.Overall, this is a deeply eerie, surreal piece of work. Nightmarish really is the best word for it. It also has interesting characters and some emotional moments. I'm a big fan. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful films I have ever seen","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"35 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film is simply terrific, fantastic special effects, good plot and a really shocking and surprising ending! This is really a horror film mixed with a thriller that has respected my own perspectives. I suggest it to all the people who liked films like The sixth sense and The others...It's almost a masterpiece of his genre! "}{"Title":"Pellington is the new master of horror","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  May contain spoilersSome people, perhaps most people go through life not really wondering about much.  They go to work, punch the clock and then go home and do it all again the next day.  But what about the ostensibly small percentage of people that seem to think, like Neo from the Matrix did, that there is just something not quite right with the world we inhabit?  These people have a slightly askewed perspective of what is right, what is wrong and how it all comes together.  These are the people that are always asking why?  Why does something happen and in the greater scheme of things, how does it all matter?  Is there really a reason for everything or do some things just happen....because?The Mothman Prophecies is a riveting story about how some people seem just slightly ahead of the rest of us.  It is a story of trusting your feelings and not going mad or getting committed in the process.  And finally it is one of the scariest films I have ever seen.  Make no mistake about that.Based on true events.I read an article that stated that this is a film that Hollywood actually had to tone down.  In most cases, when film makers get a hold of material, they have to beef it up to make it more palpable for an audience.  But this is just the opposite.  Mark Pellington had to simmer some of the events in the film because he felt that if they actually filmed what was purportedly claimed, the audience would not believe the absurdity those events.  If that is the case, it frightens me to think what was left out because as it stands, this film is on the brink of utter temerity.  There is a head first slide into the bizarre and the film never fails to literally chill your bones.  No film that I can think of, and that includes my favourites like Jaws, Halloween and Nightmare on Elm Street, has made me feel as helpless, insignificant or as small as this film does.Richard Gere plays John Klein, which one can only assume is really a character based on the novelist John A. Keel, who wrote about the events the film is based on.  He is a Washington Post reporter who has just bought a new house with his wife, whom he loves very much.  After a horrible car accident, his wife is hospitalized and just before she dies, she draws numerous pictures of what can only be described as an evil looking moth like creature, or perhaps even the Angel of Death.  She begs the question to John, You didn't see it did you?  Which begs the question to us, why not?Soon after, John ends up in Point Pleasant, West Virginia, and has no recollection of arriving there.  Here he meets Sgt. Connie Parker, played by Laura Linney and Gordon and Denise Smallwood, two of the locals.  Soon after he arrives, strange things begin to happen and shortly he and Connie become entangled in an imbroglio with mysterious implications.  Many of the locals claim they have seen something similar to what John's wife drew just before her death.  And Gordon, played with pure twilight zonesque manerisms by Will Patton, seems to be the most affected by this phenomenon.  He begins to hear voices, predicts future disasters, and finally claims to have met a mysterious figure.  All the while Klein begins to see and hear unexplainable things.  And here in, in my opinion, lies the key to the film.Mark Pellington, John A. Keel and screenwriter Richard Hatem, seem to explore the subliminal irrational workings of the unknown.  There are too many subtle, yet distinct elements that show up in the film.  But they are not at the surface, they are just beneath.  They're in front of our eyes the whole time, but only if you look hard enough.  Much of this film deals with paranormal activities and the paranoid revelations of the people in one town.  But it doesn't stop there.  Klein is from a town six hours away and eventually he seeks the opinion of a man in Chicago who wrote a book that claims he felt the same things.  So there are people that have experienced these unexplainable phenoms all over the country.  And this is where the film goes off into a level that I have never seen before.In order for people to have seen this figure or to be able to comprehend it, the film suggests that there has to be an open mind.  As an old proverb once said, the mind is like a parachute, it only works if you open it.  Klein seems to have his eyes and mind wide open after his wife's death.  He hasn't quite let go of her and this somehow enables him to communicate with whatever it is that is out there.  There are times when whatever it is seems ripe with duplicity but more times than not, whatever this figure says, what he predicts, what he prophecises, it comes true.  Klein's wife's death marks the nascency of his exploration into the abnormal.The theory of the unknown is what is dissected in such infintismal but succinct ways, that on a first viewing, you may not recognize them.  We hear stories about people being committed to psyche hospitals because of their failed attempted interpretations.  We hear of people that claim they are being watched by a higher being, but feeling this is not really God-like and not really evil.  It is just an entity.  We see people predict future disasters, we see dreams that prophecize death.  And all the while, these people are looked upon as being pariahs.  It is much easier to get up, go to work and watch television than it is to think and perhaps accept the fact that there is something just beyond our control that lurks in murky places in our minds.  There is even further sublime evidence that the director and writers feel this way.  There are constant anomalous images filmed with an ethereal glance.  These are images that we now take for granted without batting an eyelash.  Things like phones, televisions, pictures and electricity are all given to us in metaphoric and literal glimpses.  The creators of this film seem to be telling us that if we can believe in the use of technology, technology like capturing a moment in time on a piece of paper or if we can receive someone's voice transmitting hours away through a few cords and wires, then why is it preposterously inconceivable that Dark Angels or Mothmen really do exist?  Perhaps, like the film tells us, they only exist to those of us that can open our stagnant minds a little more than the next person.More times than can be counted, horror films insult us with loud computer generated noises and blood that seeps from the walls and CG monsters that chase characters that no one cares about.  It is easier to make a horror movie like the modern version of the Haunting or the modern version of 13 Ghosts.  Those are paint by number horror flicks that require no thought and no effort.  But when you get a master like Shyamalan and now Pellington, creators that are intransigent in their beliefs and vision, it creates pictures that not only scare you to your very soul, they create pictures that open your eyes and minds to whole other possibilities.  Mark Pellington has now proven to me that he is a master.  Arlington Road was a surprising film that left you paralyzed with fear and your mind spewing questions long after the curtains came up.  The Mothman Prophecies (especially for horror fans) will invoke discussions long after the lights come on.  I realize this review may be a little long but this is the tip of the iceberg when it comes all that can be discussed in the film.  There is a whole other religious element to the movie that hasn't even been explored.  For instance, notice that both major events in the film happen on Christmas Eve.  Why?One final note to critics that lambaste this film for all of it's so called short comings.  True, this film does not offer an explanation or a true conclusion to what took place.  But isn't that just the perfect note for it to end on?  According to the prophet-like character, Alexander Leek, you are not supposed to understand this phenom.  He tells Klein that you will go mad trying to figure it out.  This is the only way to end the film.  In a lesser film with an inferior director and writer, this film would have culminated with Klein and Connie finding some ancient manuscript in the basement of the library that tells them how to destroy it.  They would have went to hallowed ground and summoned it and gotten rid of it.  But this is not the tenth sequel of Friday the 13th and this certainly isn't ( with all due respect to Miner and Cunningham) Steve Miner and Sean Cunningham.  This is an astute director teamed with a cunning and observant writer who believe in the pulchritude and darkness of the story and give it the respect that it deserves.  This is not only one of the best horror films I have ever seen, it is one of the best films I have experienced in my 30 years.  This is the pinnacle of film making from all parties involved.10 out of 10.....A MASTERPIECE BY A MASTER OF MANIPULATION***One final note.  I just wanted to give special mention to the entire sound crew who did such a brilliant job with this film.  Pellington and Hatem collaborated beautifully to give me one of the most harrowing experiences I have been privy to in a theater, but the film would not have been quite as pulse pounding if it weren't for the sound team.  Kelly Cabral, Pud Cusack, Claude Letessier, David Parker, Ross Simpson and Mark Jan Wlodarkiewicz working with musical composers Tom Hajdu, Andy Milburn and Jeff Rona created some of the creepiest sounds and musical overtures in quite some time.  When you think of great music and sounds from the horror genre, you think of Carpenter's eerie piano piece from Halloween, Charles Bernstein's dream-like haunting score from Nightmare On Elm Street and John Williams ominous cello from Jaws.  This is on par with all of those.  And even though this team of musicians may never know it, your work is appreciated by all of who love horror films.  Thanks. "},{"Title":"you will mysteriously lose 2 hours and $7.50 on this dud","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There's a good 5 minute story buried in this subjectively shot movie that tries too hard and utterly fails to scare. I was filled with dread as the credits appeared over a meaningless running shot of office fluorescent lights and close-ups of everyday, irrelevant, inherently unscary objects. As the film progresses we get more irrelevant close-ups, disorienting angles, hand-held camera shots, rapid editing and fast drum-beat soundtrack. And more close-ups. Soon you'll be wishing you took some dramamine. The movie tries to make EVERYTHING scary, with the result that nothing seems scary. There are a few standard jolts when something appears out of nowhere  - the usual filmic way of saying Boo. But after a dozen times of the now-cliche camera zooming to and away from a character, the panicked look he's left with seems probably caused by a sudden camera in the face rather than a ghost. The creepiest-potential moment when Indrid Cole (aka Kindred Spirit?) phones our hero is dissipated by the excessive layering of visuals. Soon any plot or sense of realism is lost - what about our hero's job? what day or night is it? what does he do most of the time in Point Pleasant? why and how does his initial meeting with a young couple happen at night in the quarry instead of the day, and do they really mention all the sexual details we see as they relate their mothman encounter? All the irrelevent camera shots encourage the viewer to ponder irrelevent questions Is that little guy in the sound lab making a music CD of his glass-lip rubbing? Do ethereal mothfolk really leave slime when hit by a car, and are there accident attorney mothpeople that represent them in mothcourt? To make something creepy or uncanny you need some realism to subvert, as one can see in One step beyond and Xfiles. By becoming more and more erratic, this movie not only seems unbelievable but manages to undermine the credibility of the real events.  "},{"Title":"One of the better thrillers of 2002","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"29 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies is a creepy thriller that doesn't make as big as an impact as you would expect. Based on true events, the film examines a series of inexplicable occurrences through the eyes - and mind - of one man played by Richard Gere. The plot sounds creepy and the fact that its based on true events sure makes it more engaging. The film looks and sounds scary as well and there are a few scenes that are bound to get underneath your skin. The film is still kind of disappointing as they don't really explain the movie so well and your left with too many unanswered questions. Sometimes its hard to take the movie seriously as there are some scenes that don't make sense or that the scene kind of feels like a joke. Like said before though, the film should still creep underneath your skin. Richard Gere stars and he gives a very good performance. He makes up for starring in that awful film called Autumn in New York. Laura Linney also does a good and these two really keep the film moving. Mark Pellington directs and he does a good job of keeping the film at a nice pace and making the film look creepy. The ending was done decently and it sure makes you think about what happens. The Mothman Prophecies will leave its mark on you and you may have trouble getting it out of your head when its time to go to sleep. The film is almost two hours long so you may start to get bored if you find the film to be stupid. Pretty much if you like the X-Files or The Forgotten then you should enjoy this thriller. The Mothman Prophecies may not be top notch thriller but its still worth checking out and will make a good rental to watch at night. Rating 6.7/10 a sometimes scary thriller that's worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Creeps all over my body","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is good. Really, it's great. It was just so suprising all the time, you never knew really what was going to happend. Richard Gere, wow, they couldn't have found a man better for the role...the plot's great, the storyline stunning and the actors...GREAT JOB!  "},{"Title":"An effective film based loosely on actual events","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There is much discussion about how much of this film is factual and how much is made up for the fun of the film.  I am a West Virginian who visits Pt. Pleasant often because it is an interesting town with Revolutionary War history and such, and I can say that this film is mostly fiction, but that's okay!The true facts are these  Many different people saw the mothman creatures in the late 60's in the Pt. Pleasant area.  There were no direct warnings or communications, simply specters without explanation.  These phantoms were taken seriously only because--as noted by Laura Linney in the film--they were seen not by flakes or freaks, but by responsible members of the community.The Silver Bridge did collapse after a period of the mothman sightings, and they were never seen or reported again in the region since.It should be noted that in this, region the mothman sightings and the bridge collapse are seen as two separate incidents.  People around here really don't perceive the mothmen as auguries of the bridge collapse. However connecting those dots for the book and film creates for a clever scenario--barring any disrespect to those who died in the bridge collapse.That most of this film is a trumped up version of the actual events shouldn't matter.  The film is merely exploring the scenario, and by using a real town with a real story, it draws us into the sense of community and fear that could pervade if such things did occur.The film is very well done and very effective in its use of paranoia and our fear of the unknown.  There is no axe murderer roaming the woods; no monsters shown with giant fangs.  Only the brief, fleeting images of the mothmen and their unexplained presence.Director Mark Pellington is great at using very few tricks to accomplish a lot of atmosphere.  He is respectful to the people of Pt. Pleasant and West Virginia, and never takes the low road of playing the people off as rubes. It is that smart decision which makes this film work.  If we didn't respect the community, we would never be drawn into this world.Richard Gere gives his usual excellent performance, and continues to be one of the most under-appreciated actors when it comes award time each year. He is the definition of a rational and intelligent man drawn into a situation that overwhelms him.Laura Linney is also excellent, and as a West Virginian myself, I must say she plays a Mountaineer (our parlance for West Virginian) better than any actors I can think of since those in Matewan.  She never condescends to the character, and employs an excellent dialect which is just as subtle as the dialect one would find in Pt. Pleasant, instead of the overbearing hillbilly dialects other actors often employ.  Linney continues to amaze with subtlety and I am always looking forward to more of her work.Debra Messing has a brief role, but she does make a mark and get a chance to show that she has dramatic acting chops which she refined onstage in roles such as Angels in America.  I would like to see her in more dramatic work since I enjoy her comedic work on Will & Grace each week.I also thought Alan Bates made a marvelous turn in the film as a professor (in more sense than one) of the mothman.  He has some great lines, including, when Gere asks why the mothmen don't explain their presence if they are superior creatures  You are superior to a cockroach; do you ever bother to explain yourself to a cockroach?At the end of the film a title says that the cause of the bridge collapse was never known.  This is a classic example of Hollywood having fun, since the cause was never a mystery at all.  The bridge was designed with what was called an I-bar, which meant the entire bridge was held up with one single joint!  It rusted and snapped under the weight of stopped holiday traffic (as shown in the film).  Because of this, such bridges all over the nation were shut down and subsequently replaced.  The Silver Bridge collapse remains the worst bridge disaster in American history.  The collapse scenes are terrifying, yet respectful of the actual tragedy.Kudos to Pellington and his marvelous cast for making such a thought-provoking and engaging film.It should be noted that Pt. Pleasant has a great sense of humor about the mothmen, and they even have events for people to come and enjoy the lore. If you are in the region stop by downtown and find some fun paraphernalia. "},{"Title":"This is a Masterpiece, period.","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one in a million, never in my life a movie had me THAT connected to the plot as this one does. I remember having goosebumps in some parts of Sixth sense, but never for almost the entire duration of the movie, such as this one. Is THAT good.The movie portraits beautifully the connection between this reality and other planes of existence. If fact, it does so with such a skill and perfection that you will almost feel a presence in your room watching the movie with you.From beginning to end, this movie is reckless with the viewer, not allowing him or her to go out of the uneasy feeling. Some scenes are disturbing but not in the way you would expect since the director seems to be a master of the unseen, the feeling always comes from ourselves and what we imagine it will happen and not because we actually see it on screen. This technique is somewhat similar to first shymalan's movies but I dare say this movie is far more developed in that sense.Visuals are stunning yet almost nill in the effects department, mood and scenery is second to none, you will FEEL being in that place and feeling what the actors feel. Soundtrack follows perfectly with creepy tunes and perfect sound editing. It is unbelievable how good the sound is handled in this one, not a single quick scare scene, sounds are used to build up tension in you and never to get cheap scares.This movie is the mother of all paranormal suspense thrillers with so much focus on the paranormal that it will creep you out like no other, it is really commendable how much the director knows about this topic and the way people accept it inside the movie.Suffice to say that for me this movie enters the top 10 for all time best paranormal suspense movies I've seen in my entire life, seriously.If you didn't see it, please, go watch it, you wont regret it! "},{"Title":"One of the most intriguing modern legends is shown in a way it deserves.","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Mothman Prophecies is the only one movie which actually gave me shivers. I cannot get scared on a horror movies and I consider myself a bit handicapped due to it - hey, being scared should be a half of fun! ;) OK, Mothman Prophecies also didn't make me feel afraid. It made me feel uneasy. I sat in front of TV, watching beautiful, dark vistas of Point Pleasant almost frame-by-frame; hell, nowadays old factory and sleepy industrial town are better setting for horror then old castle or haunted mansion.Movie is perfect - I mean that! - when it comes to visuals. Camera work is brilliant... and red eyes seem to be ubiquitous. Music is quite intimidating and actors' play... Masterpiece. Gere is wonderful, and the same applies to other main characters.Maybe you won't understand why I'm talking only in superlatives here, but I assure you - you will if you watch it. One of the most intriguing modern legends is shown in a way it deserves. "},{"Title":"Nerves of ice","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" With a story that has events taken from real life, it always has a higher chill factor. Again, I don't get-off, on slasher or horror flicks. The thing that does get to me and always has, is, things that could or did actually happened. The acting, albeit I am not a real, Gear fan per say, but the character that he played was done to the bone. This is the story of John and Mary Klein, newlyweds.I felt the hair stand up on the back of my neck, in 2002 when I went to see this. It was the perfect time of year for a story of mystery and horror. It was set right in fall, turning into winter. Debra Messing was a young and beautiful wife to Richard Gear's character, they seemed at very least, to be the perfect little young couple. From, the house hunting mission that they were on, to the trip back to their home, when the first symbol appeared, it was very chilling. The type of scare, that is deep settling and the onset of an abrupt frigidness encompasses your body. The man that he John went to meet in regard to the 'phone-call' played by the very talented Will Patton, (Gordon Smallwood) was an eerie outing, that proved deadly for Patton's character. The Priest that met with Klein, to explain some of the occurrences, but not all. Right on down to the drive that should have taken four or five hours, that seemed only, twenty minutes to the primary character, played by Richard Gear. I can say I have felt that I have been in that situation before. A sort of 'time' mystery traveling. I walked out of the theater, with a thoroughly washed out emotional chill factor inside of me. It was strange. The real stuff always is to me though.A couple years later, I saw it again in 2004, at home after renting it and with the lights out, at 12 midnight, the chilling effect doesn't grow weaker! This film, whether some are impressed or not, is a solid 'spine-tingler'. I rarely get moved by a film with shocking, or even scary stories, but as this one was told, I have to say, this was brilliant in it's execution. The players, were convincing, with these people at the helm of the story, it came across feeling cold and real. The hairs on my neck stood up a couple times! For me thats quite an accomplishment. The temp in my home seemed cooler, as the story went on. The fact that there were no phony-phony looking effects of ghoulish, slasher type action, in the story made it hit home even deeper. This was a highly well crafted thrill cast. I recommend this for anyone looking to be mesmerized by a well-toldstory,that will intrigue just about anyone. (***) "},{"Title":"A Dark & Mysterious 2 Hours","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Mothman Prophecies brought for me that genuine emotion of the unknown. Brilliantly executed cliffhangers and screenplay made it all the more worthwhile. Gere & Laura Linney were great, Will Patton's character symbolises from the viewers point of a person from the outside looking in. The steady cam shots really boosted the films performance in general.Having never read the book and knowing very little about the real events other then a couple wikipedia searches, I was thrown into a whole new world in terms of the subject matter. Even though I don't believe in ghosts and such...as the ending credits rolled I was left with a question whispering in my head could it be real?. And that I think must've have been director Mark Pellington's intention because wow; it's been a long time since I've had the opportunity to see a film that although styled like a horror - really brings out the human aspect of fear rather than a dramatical gore fest with no real back story.One last thing, the score and choice of soundtrack has to be heavily credited; there's some scenes in this film where you start becoming unconscious of your own breathing and really dive right into what's being thrown at you. So, in conclusion this is definitely worth adding to my collection. Whether true or fictitious The Mothman Prophecies definitely delivers quality entertainment with a twist! "},{"Title":"FREAKIN Awesome","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie is definitely one of the best horror movies I've ever seen. I've watched it like a million time and i still love it.GO SEE ITThere is no blood and gore at all and its one of those psychological horror movies not those slasher ones. I wont ruin it by telling what stuff is in it but i swear to god, some parts will make your heart stop.I watched it with my friends and we had the sound cranked up and this one part made us crap our pants.Seriously thoughGO SEE THIS MOVIE "}{"Title":"Splendid and creepy!!","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was one of those VERY few movies - that give me goose bumps all over - and chills down the spine at the same time. A splendid and creepy movie - without the standard noise of guns and burnt rubber of US action movies. New turns of events keep popping up and kept me in suspense throughout the movie. A surprising and unexpected end topped this off very nicely indeed. The actors show superb acting with a fine 'low key'. I truly recommended this one! I am fond of short statements, so I see no reason to comment more than this, since the first movie comment really tells us what the movie is all about regarding the story. But since for some odd reason I have to write 10 lines I keep writing, without using junk words. ;-) "},{"Title":"Misunderstood and underrated","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies is a film like no other I have seen, but is often held to a standard and expectation of your typical horror or thriller, from which most criticism for it unjustifiably surfaces.First, The Mothman Prophecies is a very sincere film. Most horror films are ostensibly slapstick, caricatured and full of overstatement of a very broadly recognised fear; death. The vehicles for this fear are usually monsters, murderers or disasters of which the victims are helpless; though these do the job of shocking us out of our seats, their effect, given their near ridiculousness, rarely lingers. The intensity of The Mothman Prophecies, however, is based from the outset on the loss of a perfect love, and our very limited nature in the grandness of existence, despite all other things that happen supernaturally, this is what truly haunts our protagonist. It is in this, that the helplessness which brings about fear finds its vessel.Another interesting point, is that these supernatural moth-like beings that turn up before a disaster are not trying to kill anyone, yet they are (or should I say Indrid Cold is) utterly terrifying. When Klein receives THE phone call (you know which one!), I felt the very world-view that keeps me feeling safe very much under attack. Whenever I am in a dimly lit room, alone, I wonder how shaken I would be if such an event happened to me. The explanation for this, that there may be things beyond our primitive nature and capability to understand, is profoundly reasonable...Which brings me to my point Most horror films are sold on the merit that they make you jump (sudden knife attacks, monsters leaping out, etc). The horror in The Mothman Prophecies is something entirely different, something profound, poignant, existential. It is a film that will reward the insightful, reflective and empathic individual (not the thrill-seeker), and will continue to scare and compel such individuals long after viewing ( for these reasons, I would recommend watching this by yourself).It is the departure from your typical horror/thriller which I believe warrants a 10 for The Mothman Prophecies. It is a film that adds something unique to the rich cinema tapestry. I could talk about the competent performances, the strange cinematography or the alleged origins of the story, but what really sets this film apart is the way it scares like no other in the genre by which it has been defined. "},{"Title":"THIS is cinema !!!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One common thread seemingly shared by all those who did not like this movie, aside from the fact their brains never developed beyond puberty, is their total incapacity to verbalise WHY they didn't like it or what aspects they believed should have been bettered, not to mention, HOW they personally would have gone about this reformation themselves?  It is of little consequence I suppose - cerebral implosion has always interested me as a physiological condition. That this great film has inspired a universal rating of only 6.6 bears testament to my belief that today's viewing audience are, for the most part cretins - or getting there! I realise also that these comments most likely condemn this review never to be published, since the IMDb frowns heavily (and funnily enough I agree with this policy) on the slating of other IMDb reviewers. This particular film however incites my anger towards these negative and terminally limited people, like no other I can recall! Together with RED CORNER, AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN, PRETTY WOMAN and PRIMAL FEAR (not necessarily in that order), THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES is up there with Gere's best work. It's up there with ANYONE'S best work! In essence a brilliant movie length episode of THE TWILIGHT ZONE, it was always going to be a failure to those expecting MOTH MAN to be leaping out of the screen with slavering maw (the cretins better look that one up!), rancid breath and flesh-stripping claws. This is no action movie as one cranially displaced reviewer complained. It is a film that you must work WITH, listen TO and build upon! Mark Pellington directed his guts out with this one and he has produced an unequivocal winner, vastly superior in my view to even ARLINGTON ROAD which though interesting was a bit iffy towards the conclusion I thought.The briefest of plot outlines follows. Gere is a reporter for the Washington Post. He is very much in love with his wife. Following an auto run-in, she is hospitalised and diagnosed with a rare form of brain tumor. Before she dies she leaves several extremely strange sketches of something on a notepad. Gere later finds himself on a road to Pleasant County having no idea how he got there (and wishing to divulge nothing further) comes across many uniquely odd and supernatural turns. He is convinced some terrible tragedy will strike the township. Does it? Is he one step short of a psycho ward? Is this the greatest suspense movie of all time?  Maybe you had better watch it!Will Patton gives an absolutely riveting support performance but there again - EVERYONE here is just about out of their tree. Cinematography, script, production values are ALL just superb. Despite what others may say, there is not one boring moment in this film if you have ANY awareness at all! The conclusion (and let's forget the minority who think they saw it coming - THEY DIDN'T) is so well done. both emotionally and effect wise, it lifts the film so far above others of its ilk its not funny! Blows THE SIXTH SENSE, THE OTHERS etc out of the water.If you're reading this Richard, thanks for a superb and thoughtful performance, for me personally, it was the film of the decade! "},{"Title":"Creepy, eerie and scary","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This one came out of left field. I thoroughly enjoyed it. It was gripping and fascinating. It was engaging emotionally and intellectually. Although things didn't always make sense, it was often surprising. In fact, the seemingly nonsensical stuff didn't bother me as it usually does; it even added to the allure of the mysteries. I enjoyed that it was a new mythology with a creature that hasn't been done to death before. Even better, it was ambiguous and intelligent. This is also a movie that's very stylishly directed with nice transitions, angle shots and filters. For such a gloomy film taking place mostly in a suburb, it sure looked pretty. The acting was top-notch with Richard Gere being impressive, and the other actors, especially the character actors, sounding true. Most of all, this movie was creepy as hell, not by being bloody and gory, but by creating atmosphere and scaring us with seemingly mundane stuff and revelations. The phone calls were particularly disturbing. I highly recommend this film if you're into psychological thrillers with supernatural overtones or loved the X-Files back in the days.Rating 9 out of 10 (remarkable) "},{"Title":"Underrated Psychedelic Mood Piece&#x85;Creepy, Freaky and Haunting","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Director Mark Pellington has Made Two Very Interesting and Offbeat Movies that are Underrated and have a Unique Style that seems to be an Uneasy Fit with Mainstream Audiences and Critics. Arlington Road (1999) and The Mothman Prophecies.This One is a Creepy, Haunting, Freaky Paranormal Story based on Real Events and John Keel's Book of the Same Name (1975). The Book is an Underground Classic and a Staple in the Investigations that are Sometimes Categorized as Alternative News. This is a Great Interpretation of the Book and the Events and the Director took a High Style Approach and it Fits Perfectly. There Really is No Monster or Creature Except on the Edge. The Image Appears in Blurs and just Inside the Frame and Inside the Mind with some Physical Imprint Remains, like on a Tree or the Grill of a Car.Nothing is Ever Clear or Precise. The Cinematography is Excellent with a lot of Patterned Transitional Out of Focus Shots, Perhaps could be called Psychedelic, that Convey the Fuzzy Encounters of The Mothman by the Citizens of Pt. Pleasant. This is a Beautiful, Colorful, Surreal Movie that is Subtle and is Presented with Chills and Hair Raising Situations that are Moody and Heart Wrenching.This is not a Monster Movie or a Horror Film Per Se. Recommended for Fans of the Twilight Zone, Outer Limits, The X-Files, and the Paranormal. Sure to be a Cult Movie because this One is Decidedly Different. "},{"Title":"The Mothman Prophecies True Horror That Brings On Some Serious Chills!","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" While several horror movies advertise themselves as being based on true events, they are usually just fabrications of the actual material. The Texas Chainsaw Massacre's brutality and nightmarish setting make the movie's inspiration(the Ed Gein murders) something to look into, especially since the events inspired Psycho and The Silence of the Lambs. The Amityville Horror is a question of truth or myth. Was that house haunted? We don't know, mostly because Hollywood had to exaggerate everything. However, 2002's The Mothman Prophecies comes along, and when one is knowing of the real story and John A. Keel's book, the movie makes you think differently about true story horror. Music video director Mark Pellington has given us a movie that not only interests genre fans, but actually pulls through on bringing you a big case of the creeps.Washington Post writer John Klein is happily driving with his wife Mary one night after going house hunting. Suddenly, something catches Mary's eye and the car swerves and crashes. John visits Mary in the hospital before she dies, and one of the last things she asks him is You didn't see it, did you? We ask ourselves, what exactly did she see? We don't know. Strangely, John finds himself in the West Virginia town of Point Pleasant within hours, where weird things are occurring. Lights are flashing across the sky, John is getting strange phone calls, and people are reporting that they've seen a large winged creature with red beaming eyes. John teams up with Point Pleasant sheriff Connie Mills to discover what is going on in this town. What is the moth-like creature attacking this town's locals? What does it want? Is it intending to do harm or is it an omen of things to come? When faced with the observations presented in Keel's book, The Mothman Prophecies only makes a few minor changes, including the time the actual events took place. The story shifts from the 1960's to present day. But otherwise, it stays very true to its source material, which leaves the audience completely in awe. Director Pellington and screenwriter Richard Hatem refuse to let the story be fabricated, and we love them all the more for it.This supernatural chiller keeps its suspense factor high by not treating the audience like idiots. It doesn't stick to any of the usual horror standards. No one says I'll be right back. The film doesn't succumb to boobs and gore. The script keeps the relationship between John and Connie from turning the movie into a sappy love story, which makes the leading characters more sympathetic and pure at heart, thanks to Richard Gere and Laura Linney's great performances.What really gets to you about The Mothman Prophecies is that you are left questioning right up to the end what this creature's motivations are. You never know if the apparition exists to warn people of future disasters or to bring fear into the hearts of the townspeople. We're also not really sure if the Mothman is actually real. What if it's just a figment of imagination, what our minds want us to see and believe? We're always more frightened when we don't know what we're supposed to be scared of. A nice addition is Pellington's decision to stick to the less is more formula, and he does it extremely well. He never shows us the monster, only flashes of light in varied colors and what we our told of the creature's appearance. Only true fans of horror will appreciate this.All of the tension builds up to a perfectly staged and nerve-rattling climax that poses more questions. The film builds slowly to produce this giant ball of supernatural horror. This may test the patience of moviegoers who take their horror with ridiculous explanations and CGI effects. But the story of The Mothman Prophecies was always meant to leave you with questions. The movie is scarier that way. By the time the credits have rolled, you are emotionally devastated, stunned, and ultimately freaked out. What could have been an X Files wannabe turned into something much more horrifying than anything The X Files could have created. The Mothman Prophecies is truthful horror at its finest. Watch it at night with the lights off, and prepare to be spooked. "},{"Title":"Like a great espisode of the XFILES!","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really liked this movie and think it's been looked over. Richard Gere loses his wife in a very strange car accident that is caused by a mysterious figure (which he does not see, but his wife does.) After investigating he uncovers reports of a 'creature' called the MOTHMAN that supposedly haunts a West Virginia town. There are many great scares that do not come in the usual Hollywood mold. One in particular is a great scene where Richard Gere speaks to the MOTHMAN on the phone and he is able to tell him everything that is going on in his hotel room. Very understated and creepy and it does not require any 'boo!' moments that most horror films play to. The ending is vague enough to be open for interpretation but a satisfying conclusion to the story overall. Really enjoyed this, you should too! "},{"Title":"Very well done thriller","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of my favourite thrillers for doing a great job with the atmospherics and camera work to slowly ratchet up your tension. Never jumped so high from a movie telephone ringing in my life! Richard Gere is amazing, one of his best roles I have ever seen him in. They could have developed his relationship with the cop more, but that would have just been 'chik trikkin' it out.The 'monster' in the movie is very well done. What is he? A time traveller? An alien? It never let's you know. I like a movie that retains a creepy element of suspense like this and then never let's you know at the end. Sometimes that drives me insane, but not so in this one.The reality is that creepy unexplainable events really do happen like this to people, and there are often no cut and dry definitive answers as to what they experienced. I wish there were more movies like this. "},{"Title":" You're more advance than a cockroach, but have you ever tried to explain it to one of them?  ","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" From the inspired creative mind of writer John Keel comes this dramatic story of the paranormal, called  The Mothman Propheices . The incident originates with the actual events which took place during the years 1966 and 67, in West Virgina. The strange and eerie tale captured the attention of many avid paranormal investigators and fans of the supernatural alike. The story concerns John Klein (Richard Gere) a serious reporter working for the Washington Post. Believing he has discovered true happiness, he and his wife (Debra Messing) select and purchase a new house hoping to live happily after. Unfortunately, fate intervenes and he mysteriously ends up in West Virgina searching for the original incident concerning the phenomenal legend of the Mothman. Although there is no actual proof of the winged creature, Klein continues to gather all sorts of evidence such as remarkable sightings, appearances and unexplained events. None of which prove the legend or disprove it's manifestations. Finally as he concludes one of manifestations, namely it's ability to predict the future, he is suddenly faced with what to do with the evidence. Harris Mackenzie, Will Patton and David Eigenberg add to the impressive cast and give it a sense of authenticity. An absorbing movie and one which will mesmerize audiences for years to come. **** "},{"Title":"Brilliantly unsettling.","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you're a fan of a good psychological scare, this film will stick with you for a long time. Richard Gere stars as John Klein, a Washington newspaper reporter who encounters a moth-like apparition driving home with his wife late one night. His wife dies mysteriously after the ensuing car accident and Klein becomes convinced this apparition was to blame. When he hears of similar sightings (a tall, thin, humanoid creature with moth-like wings and red glowing eyes) in a rural West Virginia town, he becomes obsessed with finding the truth.Overall, this movie leaves you unsettled. The scares are like fleeting movement in the corner of a dark room. The viewer's discomfort is related to what's not seen and not understood. The more Klein tries to learn the truth, the more it seems clear he's in a losing battle. He looks like a man caught in a giant hamster wheel, running in circles, never moving any closer to understanding the reality of the Mothman. Over time, he begins to get calls from a voice calling itself Indrid Cold. These are some of the creepier phone conversations you'll ever hear. Is this really the Mothman contacting Klein with strange prophecies? Or is Klein just losing his grip on reality?The film is very loosely inspired by John A. Keel's book describing actual events that happening in West Virginia some 30-40 years ago. Other than the Appalachian setting and the general Mothman mythology, the film doesn't share much in common with the book. The book is far less interesting. Keel was essentially a UFO conspiracy theorist and associated the Mothman appearances with many UFO sightings that occurred during the same period. The movie is much more sophisticated (although highly fictionalized) and keeps the Mothman's origins far more mysterious.This film is for viewers who aren't afraid to be left with a lot of questions. It's clear early on Klein has become involved with something that's probably beyond human comprehension. The physical manifestation of the Mothman is never clearly seen or understood; it's more like a dark, malevolent shadow hanging over the small town. The atmosphere is relentlessly dark, creepy and unforgettable. You'll definitely be worried about a pair of red, glowing eyes appearing outside your window at night. "}{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A lot of books changed my life.If that's good or bad,I do not know.One of the books which changed my life is The Mothman prophecies.That book changed my general vision of the world.I will not talk about the book;it's not for everybody but I recommend it.Now,I'll talk about the great movie based on that book.The movie did something similar the book did;it does not pay much attention the facts the main character reveals.It pays more attention to human perception's frailty.And it's really great that the movie chose that way because the facts are so bizarre that,without putting attention to the human perception's frailty,it would have been a ridiculous movie.The Mothman prophecies works greatly as a thriller with a paranormal touch.The things the movie shows go from some clichs,typical of the genre(like a telephone which sounds disconnected),to things really sinister,disturbing and intriguing.Richard Gere and Laura Linney bring excellent performances because they give their characters a lot of humanity.The script keeps very well the mystery during all the movie finishing with a great ending.The Mothman prophecies is a great movie with authentic suspense,a great story and very fun. "},{"Title":"Best Thriller in 30 years !!","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies is a throwback to the time when horror movie didn't actually mean Teenage Gore Fest. I guess the word for it now would be 'thriller,' and thrill it does.Based on a true story from Point Pleasant, West Virginia in 1967, the Mothman takes place in present 2001, or thereabouts. It's the story of a newspaper reporter who finds himself in said town on his way to interview the governor. There he stumbles across several bizarre occurrences; namely repeated sightings by the townsfolk of a not-quite-seen ethereal creature, and how these strange tales seem to intertwine with the reporter's own life.The director, Mark Pellington (whose directorial credits include the mediocre movie Arlington Road and the music video of Jeremy by Pearl Jam) has created a mood and a tension in film that I don't think has appeared since The Exorcist in 1973. And he does so without blood, gore, or cheap scares.And only a PG-13 rating.Mr. Pellington falls backs on some outdated tricks like good acting, excellent cinematography, and an absolutely stunning soundtrack. Close-ups of the actors' faces here convey more real terror than in all the Friday the 13th films combined. The musical score sets the mood from scene 1 to the finale; dark and foreboding, tense and pensive. Sound work this good should have earned an Oscar nomination. The camera work is beyond reproach, as well. Sometimes long shots, setting a mood, sometimes jerky, fuzzy, or distorted like a funhouse mirror, all perfect to what needs to be conveyed - - without giving away too much.The acting, also, is top notch. Richard Gere, Laura Linney, Will Patton, and Will & Grace's Debra Messing all convey a range of emotions not seen in modern day thrillers in sometime.If there is a flaw to the Mothman Prophecies, it's that the townspeople are too quick to tell a stranger of their paranormal experiences. A moments' hesitation, a shifting away of the eyes, the use of a softer-spoken voice in public would have made the stories and the characters come more alive, and added only a minute or two to the films' overall length.Counting Memento, this is the second great film I've seen in the past thirteen months. Get it while you can. * * * * * * * * * * Rating Solid A "},{"Title":"Good Film","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was a great throwback film that did quite a bit to your imagination without showing you everything. Best work Gere has done and the audio effects were fantastic. I do business in Ohio and plan to visit Point Pleasant out of the curiosity that this film caused for me. Great soundtrack too, especially the ending song for credits entitled Half Light. The use of light in the shooting of the film was brilliant, with everything seeming to happen at dusk, especially the collapse of the bridge at the end. This was an excellent cross between a mind thriller and a horror movie. The use of the strange phone calls was very clever and quite chilling, especially the scene in which Gere is asking the entity what he is holding etc. while on the phone with him. "},{"Title":"Visually striking but ultimately unsatisfying","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Visually speaking, this film contains and invents so many intriguing devices that it restores the belief that contemporary film can still be visually original. These ideas alone almost made the viewing worthwhile, but why doesn't this bird fly for me?Possible spoilers.The concept of this Mothman appearing before disasters happen is interesting and dealt with in a truly spooky way. There is a great deal of mystery surrounding these figures which is maintained throughout the film, and I believe that this is one of the problems with it in that we never actually discover anything substantial about them. We never even get to see the things properly, which gives me reason to think why bother watching the movie?.Richard Gere is, well, Richard Gere, and Laura Linney puts in a dependable performance, although I couldn't feel any real character from anyone except the excellent and undermentioned Will Patton. The music was chilling and atmospheric and, as I said before, the film looked fantastic. The final act of the film is very tense and well orchestrated, and this combined with the other positive points make this film almost worth buying for the DVD shelf.But these plus points can't help the fact that this is essentially a feature-length version of a less successful episode of The X Files. All in all, worth watching, but left me a little empty inside and I wouldn't buy it. Thursday night rental job. "},{"Title":"Expected More","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was actually looking forward to this picture, since I had read the book when it came out all those many years ago, and remembered it scaring the bejeezez out of me.  I had hoped for the same from the movie, but was instead quite bored.  With the exception of two scenes that were slightly startling, this movie had no oomph.  Plenty of atmosphere, but that's about it.  However, I must commend the special effects artists who accomplished what I had thought to be imposssible In a much used photo of Debra Messing as Richard Gere's wife, they somehow were able to provide this poor woman with what appeared to be cleavage!  Now that alone is Oscar worthy in my humble opinion! "},{"Title":"Premonitions, supernatural powers, and Richard Gere.","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" One more film about psychic powers, visions, strange presences. A journalist (Gere, not that bad) goes to a little town to investigate all those happenings 'cause he has suffered himself some weird events. At least until halfway the movie has a nice rhythm and it really hooks you up; but then it begins to twist round, and gets longer and longer till you don't care anymore about the story. All this decorated with some good special effects that give the film an original look. The actors are just OK, even Richard Gere and, well, we've all watched worst stuff than this. Hardly enjoyable, just that.My Rate 4/10 "},{"Title":"Bored me to tears","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this film at a free screening at the Egyptian Theater in Hollywood. I was really looking forward to seeing it because I thought this director's first film Arlington Road  was one of the best of that year's   films. I was sadly disappointed in this movie. The only reason I didn't walk out was because the director and alot of his cast and crew were at the screening and I didn't want to hurt anyone's feelings. I did, however, slip out during the end credits, because I needed a good stiff drink to wake me up after this turkey. In fact, the only thing that kept me from sleeping through the entire movie was the constantly ringing telephones and alarm clocks that keep waking Richard Gere up throughout the film. I don't know what went wrong here, but I sure hope Mark Pellington is not a one-film wonder. In my opinion, this movie should never have been released. It's that bad. "},{"Title":"Very interesting, creepy, spooky tale","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't quite class it as horror, but more of a supernatural mystery thriller. Fascinating that this thing is based on real life reports. It gives it more of the creepy factor. That aside, it's just a really good nail-biter.It was very atmospheric. Great cinematography. I think the premise could have made for a great TV show. There's such a Twin Peakish, Lostish, feeling about it, tho not the weirdness. I like that people were reporting strange going ons and they were taken seriously.Richard Gere, Laura Linney, and Will Patton played their roles perfectly. I recommend for people that like Twin Peaks, Lost, and X-Files, and are looking for something with that similar type of mysterious feeling. "},{"Title":"Dark moody atmosphere let down by random ending","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" John (Richard Gere) and Mary Klein (Debra Messing) are happily married and about to buy a house. Then he sees a vision and crashes the car. Two years after her car crash death, John is driving but loses track and get stranded in Point Pleasant, West Virginia. Strange things have been happening there. Gordon (Will Patton) have had visions, and sheriff Connie Mills (Laura Linney) is trying to make sense of it all.This is a slow atmospheric moody movie. I like the dark mood, but it moves a little too slow. The problem is that the final reveal is not as compelling as the build up telegraphs. The action is not big enough or exciting enough. It's too chaotic to follow. And there is nothing he could do to predict the outcome anyways. So the ending is very random. And the whole true story is questionable at best. "},{"Title":"Eerie Happenings","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Mark Pellington directed this intriguing supernatural thriller that stars Richard Gere as reporter Joe Klein, who becomes interested in reports of a mysterious Moth Man, after his wife was killed in a car accident, and her last words involved seeing such a figure. His investigation takes him to Point Pleasant, West Virginia, where there have been recent sightings. He meets local police woman Connie Mills(played by Laura Linney) who helps him investigate, and after he receives eerie phone calls from an entity called Indrid Cold, he becomes convinced that a disaster in this small town is imminent, and it turns out he's right... Effective film with fine direction and acting, and a most interesting premise. Doesn't answer all of viewers' questions, and more than a bit vague, but still quite memorable. "}{"Title":"Above Average Thriller","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Claiming to be based on a true events, The Mothman Prophecies recounts the story of John Klein (Gere), a reporter whose wife Mary (Messing) has died in a car accident under unexplained circumstances. Two years later, he mysteriously finds himself to Point Pleasant, a remote village where several weird paranormal events are occurring. Klein suspects that these are connected with the death of his wife, and tries to find out what is happening with the help of police officer Mills (Linney). They soon find out that they are dealing with grave danger...If The Mothman Prophecies did not claim to reflect real-life events, it would definitely be a higher-rated thriller. However, since the story is quite implausible, the viewer feels rather cheated by the incredulous events unfolding in front of his eyes.Despite the above shortcoming, the movie manages to be overall satisfactory Mark Pellington produces a mystifying and fairly well-built atmosphere, although this work of his can by no means compare with the excellent Arlington Road. The performances range from OK (Gere) to very good (Messing and Linney). The plot, although implausible as I said earlier, still gets our attention anyway.All in all, an above average, 6/10 thriller. "},{"Title":"A must see UFO type thriller which is based on true events.","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie was awesome,and Gere played a good part.They did not go too over board which is great.If you are interested in paranormal/scary stuff with truth to it then this movie is for you.If they had added more special effects or over dramatization then the realness of the movie would not have worked.This is a movie that is a must see for horror fans or UFO/weird flick lovers.If you like Richard Gere as an actor than you will definitely like this movie even if you don't get into the whole paranormal scene.Good acting,good plot,and awesome suspense.Please do not miss this movie as you might think it not worth the watch it is amazing. "},{"Title":"Eerie and never over-revealing","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie creates a signature mood that's rare in most so-called scary films. It sticks with you afterward, like when you're out in the woods at twilight.A stark outdoor scene with Will Patton was especially powerful. Never quite revealing the monster (if there actually is one) has a lot to do with the fear factor. It's always less affecting when the unknown is brought into the light.There were a few slower sequences that felt somewhat contrived but they were trivial to the experience. This is one of the best atmos-fearic horror movies I've seen because it never gives away too much. "},{"Title":"Masterfully crafted...","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As a student of film, The Mothman Prophecies is by far my favorite movie of all time. The plot, although not particularly gripping, is extremely engaging. The Mothman, in essence, is a movie monster. Yet the fear factor lies in his in his angel-of-death-like omniscience and omnipresence. The film effectively sums up the Mothman's enigmatic nature in the lines John Klein I think we can assume that these entities are more advanced than us. Why don't they just come right out and tell us what's on their minds?Alexander Leek You're more advanced than a cockroach, have you ever tried explaining yourself to one of them?Although the acting is not great throughout, Richard Gere was a pleasure to watch, and Will Patton's performance was haunting. Additionally, the mysterious Point Pleasant denizens keep the atmosphere eerie and intriguing and more than make up for any less-than-perfect performances of major characters.Plot and characters aside, however, what makes this movie a real masterpiece is the details, the visual diamonds in the rough. The film is full of beautiful and powerfully crafted motifs, right down to the scene transitions. The various appearances of the Mothman, the motifs of the two red eyes and the Y shape, and the creepy out-of-time occurrences (i.e. a dead man placing a phone call several hours after his time of death) give the film its creepy and enticing edge. I applaud Mark Pellington and his team for the most masterfully crafted film I have seen to date. This is a definite must-see for anyone who enjoys a good psychological thriller. "},{"Title":"The X-Files flick that should have been","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Beautifully photographed and edited thriller which plays out like an extended X-Files episode.  Richard Gere playing a Washington Post reporter makes a rather dim Fox Mulder clone, but Laura Linney's worried small-town cop outclasses him in the Dana Sculley role.  The premise is no more far-fetched than the unrelated series offered in its best episodes, namely the monster ones (as opposed to those tedious alien stories) very creepy with only a few well-timed creature features. Debra Messing (earning the Sela Ward Underused TV Beauty award--see The Fugitive for details) fans are advised not to miss the first reel.  Alan Bates has a couple of scenes as a reclusive American writer who has experience the Mothman Prophecies firsthand.  Will Patton continues his quest for typecast weirdos.  All in all, a good time-killer with a bang-up ending for those willing to suspend belief for two hours. "},{"Title":"A stylish and atmospheric film, surprisingly from Hollywood.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A stylish and atmospheric film, surprisingly from Hollywood and more surprisingly based on true events. Richard Gere, who so often acts the same character throughout his performances, is well suited here to this role of the confused but focused news reporter. The story leaps in quickly with a large amount of suspense and hinted visuals, instead of the action and horror expected. This lends the feel to a much more non-Hollywood film and produces for a slow and brooding pace. Although the clues are placed quite noticeably, they aren't entirely apparent until prompted by the storyline. Although the ending may not make everyone happy, it makes a nice compromise between entertainment and suspense.  "},{"Title":"Lingers in the mind","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit that I'm an Mothman aficionado. Even before the film was made, I read a lot of books and web sites (remember the fun Mothman web site at Geocities started in the mid-90s?) about the Mothman events in Point Pleasant and when the movie came out, I was excited and a little disappointed. I was excited because a movie about the Mothman was being made but I was a bit disappointed that the setting of the film starring Richard Gere and directed by Mark Pellington was set in the present and not in the 1960s, when the real events occurred. So, I was obviously ambivalent in seeing MP. And though the final product has some weaknesses, the overall effect of MP is pretty good  because many images and moments linger in the mind days or weeks after watching it.Before reviewing the movie, there are several things to point out between the movie/book vs the Mothman myth. The book on which the movie is based upon is an interpretation from the author of what the Mothman is. The idea that the Mothman is some sort of harbinger of doom is John Keel's own personal theory of what the Mothman might be and not necessarily what the Mothman actually is. It's not what the people who witnessed the Mothman or the people living in Point Pleasant generally thought it was. For instance, the Mothman was always associated with UFOs (which the movie almost leaves out entirely) because people saw strange lights in and around the time people witnessed the Mothman. So, in other words, one shouldn't take the film's concept of the Mothman verbatim. The screenplay's and the director's idea of what the Mothman is is only a supposition. But (and this a big but) it's a pretty darn good supposition, I have to say. But still a supposition.This liberal interpretation of the Mothman events doesn't mean The Mothman Prophecies is a terrible movie. It's not. It's pretty darn good one, even with its weaknesses. The mood and overall creepy atmosphere of MP is perfect. One couldn't ask for more. In fact, the atmosphere of MP is so good that it easily overcomes the film's many weaknesses, like how the story concentrates almost entirely on the Richard Gere character. I didn't mind that the film invested a good deal of the story on John Klein. Some of the scenes with Gere alone in the motel room are excellent and effective. But after watching Gere act alone in his motel room or alone here or alone there, the film inadvertently becomes a bit too claustrophobic for its own good. Certainly when one considers how many people were affected by the events of the Mothman sightings. One wonders why the film didn't spend more time with the people in PP. MP shouldn't have been only about John Klein but more about the people of Point Pleasant and their sightings, etc. Having the story revolve only around one solitary character can stretch most storylines to their limits. Numerous scenes of Gere talking on the phone become repetitious and a bit much to watch. A better way of showing how lonely the Klein character was is by having more people around and show them having lives and going about their daily existence, the opposite of what Klein was experiencing after the death of his wife. This would have been a way of showing how lonely the Klein character was without having the film end up being seemingly populated by a single solitary main character. Then there are the scenes with Gere in Chicago with that old man, which, unfortunately, are very cliched. They don't belong in a movie like this. And the film shouldn't have ended just after the big event. It makes the film feel like the disaster was the whole point of the story.But even with these weak points, The Mothman Prophecies is worth watching and absorbing. It's very well filmed. There are several memorable scenes, certainly the ending and the plethora of subliminal imagery peppered throughout the film. The liberal and ambivalent interpretation of how they show the Mothman to be is actually great because it's never dogmatic. The ambivalent screenplay and impressionistic direction by Pellington leaves the Mothman myth open to other interpretations. In  fact, an actual account of the events in Point Pleasant can still be made, as a movie or a documentary. There's enough  room for two or three Mothman movies.The Mothman Prophecies is one of my favorite films of 2002. Even with its faults, it still beats most of the stuff churned out by Hollywood (Signs, Dragonfly, etc). "},{"Title":"Chilling suspense","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  'Arlington Road' is among my favorites, and 'Mothman Prophecies' is quickly climbing said list as well.  That said, Mark Pellington is speedily earning a new fan.Both films are two of the most suspenseful films I have seen, with a couple of the best endings I've seen in movies.A good film to watch with the lights out. "},{"Title":"As a fan of the book, I was afraid this would be awful...","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Being a fairly weird person, John Keel is one of my favorite writers. I've read the book this is based on numerous times. And consider it to be mostly true (based on some experiences I've had in paranormal investigation myself).So I was afraid to see what the movie would like, since it basically tried to turn a fairly weird and somewhat dry book into a fictional movie. But they did a great job. Even Richard Gere, who I think is a terrible actor normally, and someone who I have trouble taking seriously because of the urban legends about him, did a great job. All of the acting in this is superb. Laura Linney and Will Patton in particular.To the average person, this movie probably won't make a heck of a lot of sense, though the ending might be more of a surprise for people not familiar with the book. It's also not the typical horror or suspense movie. There's really no monster or boogey man out to get anyone here, not exactly. There's something, but just what it is isn't really known*, not even at the end. Or just what it's trying to do. Except perhaps drive people crazy. It's more creepy than scary, I think.Perhaps that's why Gere works well in this movie. He's pretty good at looking confused.But beyond that, there is something of a human interest story. We see how Gere's character grapples with the death of his wife. Ultimately he has to make a choice between holding on to his dead wife or moving on to someone else. Gere actually does some decent acting here, doing a good job of showing his grief and turmoil and longing for his dead wife. So I have to give him a lot of credit, actually.What I also really liked about the movie, was that it was more or less real. Yes, it was heavily fictionalized, but even so, it mostly takes liberties with the characters. It's actually a fairly accurate depiction of dealing with entities such as Indrid Cold, and what they are like.*the movie pretty much made up the mentions of mothmen being seen elsewhere. AFAIK, the mothman proper has only been seen in the Pt. Pleasant area. Other places have different things. And Mothman was actually named by a witness there, inspired somewhat by the TV show Batman - the Adam West version, which was new when the events really happened "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was a little hesitant to pick this movie up.  Most scarey movies today have that unreal quality where you find yourself rolling your eyes at how typical they can be.  This one grabbed me from beginning to end with no eye-rolling in between.  It's definitely one of those movies that will make you think twice about sleeping with the light off! "}{"Title":"A very good movie with a little bit of everything in it","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was first interested in this movie when I heard that it was going to be filmed in Kittanning, PA (where much of this movie was filmed) and that was the reason why I saw the film in the first place. The movie is slow at first, and at times, disturbing, but it isn't a boring movie in general.Richard Gere is John Klein, a reporter for the Washington Post, and two years after his wife's death, he's sent to go to Richmond, VA, but he mysteriously ends up in Point Pleasant, which is a small town on the West Virginia/Ohio border. When his car breaks down, he goes to a nearby home and is confronted by a man with a shotgun. Soon after, a woman officer comes in and resolves the problem. The man with the shotgun accuses John of knocking on his door the past couple nights but John says that he didn't do it so suspicions begin to occur. The cop tells John that the town's residents were experiencing strange events so he decides to stay and investigate.The movie is fairly long (about 2 hours) and the story is very well written, but if you get bored easily, then I don't recommend this movie. But if you like suspense (which this movie has a lot of it) and action, then watch it. The last scenes of it is pretty disasterous and action packed, and it involves a large number of deaths, so I wouldn't recommend it to younger children, unless they like these movies.Rating *** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Mothman delivers","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  At last, a great movie with Richard Gere, Not like Dr. T and his women wich i hated, The story is engaging and mysterious during the whole movie, Mark Pellington is one fantastic film maker, after his great Arlington road,wich i also loved, this one isnt as dark as Arlington.., but is very moody and stylish, i wont give away anything, you just have to buy it and keep it. I gave it a 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Chilling, edge of your seat, thriller....","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is a suspenseful thriller which keeps one guessing about the plot. Its freaky antagonist and storyline will keep one on the edge of his/her seat. Richard Gere gives a surprising performance in which one will cheer for him to find out the mystery to the strange occurrences which have been happening since his tragic accident. Will Patton's performance can only be described as gritty. His redneck role is carried out to perfection. Check this film out if you are into a smart, horror-filled thriller. "},{"Title":"Laura Linney Shines!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  On top of being a superior supernatural thriller, the acting is terrific. Laura Linney makes us care what happens to her. I don't know if this story really happened, but the treatment it gets in this film is enchanting. This is not merely a shock picture whose sole purpose is to frighten. It has eerie moments, especially when a phone rings that has just been ripped from the wall. I especially enjoy films that question whether we can trust what we see, hear or feel.   "},{"Title":"Stylish Horror Film","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"       I'm not exaggerating when I say this but, The Mothman Prophecies is *the* best horror movie in the 2000s. It is a high-paced, spooky film that will leave you breathless at the end. The directing is stellar, and so is the acting performances. There really is nothing flawed in this movie and it keeps getting scarier and scarier as it goes. In my opinion, prophecies are the creepiest topic to attack and this movie did it with stunning ease.      It doesn't matter where you see it, this horror movie delivers. Out of 10 stars, I give it a 10. This is the only horror movie that I believe people can relate or even find meaning to. Forget Sixth Sense, the Mothman Prophecies is the new movie to beat.  "},{"Title":"Very Cool Adaptation of the Story","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have studied the Mothman for years and loved this movie. It is definitely a 10. Whether you know the history behind the Mothman or not, you will never forget this adaption. I loved it and a 10 out of 10 is my rating of The Mothman Prophecies.10/10 "},{"Title":"Freaky and Strange= 9/10","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie from beginning to end, probably because I have been studying the Mothman creature since I was 9, ( I am 13 now). I read the book by John A. Keel, too. However, this states Based On True Events, really, the movie was INSPIRED by true events... it was 40% not based on book. about the freaky parts, I was not actually shivering scared, they freaked me out on quick flashes of Mothman, etc. Very good action ending! I saw it in theaters, going to rent it, then buy it. My point is, it is worth a look! "},{"Title":"This is kinda spooky...","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Despite what some of the other foos reviewing this movie say, see this movie! It is very good. While not really scary, the story is enough to keep the viewer interested. When I saw that it was rated PG-13 for terror, I thought Oh goody! I haven't screamed like that since I saw WHAT LIES BENEATH. And WHAT LIES BENEATH was a terrifying movie. While this movie isn't quite as scary, it does manage to chill you several times throughout. *POSSIBLE SPOILER* The scariest part of the movie which atleast made me gasp was when Richard Gere rolls over in bed and sees his dead wife laying next to him as if she were alive. That didn't scare me the first time I saw the movie, but the second time I saw it, for some reason, I screamed. Maybe its because I was staring into my popcorn bag and just happened to look up at the very moment. Who cares. I will most certainly buy this movie when it is released on video. It is one of the best of its kind. I give it a 5/5. "},{"Title":"Great Movie about man's perception of the universe","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Great Movie,  It is all left to the imagination and when you think back on it nothing much really happened at all.  This is the great attraction of this movie.  I was glued to this movie on the edge of my seat for the whole time and spent alot of time analysing it with friends.  It is really about how we perceive events and mass hallucination "},{"Title":"An excellent, haunting and ominous flick!!!!!!!!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Where do I begin with this movie? I'm a big fan of horror, suspense,and thrillers. If it's scary and the story intrigues me enough (even if it doesn't) I'm there to see it. I saw the trailer for the Mothman and I immediately wanted to see it. The director of the movie also directed Arlington Road another good flick about terrorism in quiet suburbia. Here he went a little deeper in the realm of paranoia and connected it with the realm of paranormal (so we believe). Every frame of the flick was dark and foreboding, we (the audience) always knew that something was watching him(Richard Gere) and we (well... me personally) couldn't wait for the first moment the main character in the movie and the Mothman were going to speak or see each other. The cast performance was pretty good. They were pretty basic on a character level, we have a city slicker trying to investigate the sightings in a small town, while at the same time trying to fit in while he is staying there, (actually he was brought there mysteriously). The point where the characters do shine is near the end of the flick where Laura Linneys character (the love interest), flat out tells Richard Gere that he is imagining things and he needs to get on with his life. Sorry for the banter but the point is that Richard Gere breaks down and we see and ask ourselves is he going to continue this quest? Does he answer the phone knowing it could be the haunting Mothman on the other line? Or does he let it ring and realize that there could be no Mothman and he should get on with his life. This wasn't an Oscar winning scene, but in the context of the movie it worked well. The minor downside to the flick is the ending seems to dilute the mystery of this Mothman, but that is just my opinion, see the ending for yourself and you might think differently. Sorry for the banter but it truly was a great flick. "}{"Title":"Best creepy film in last 10 years","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  At last, what I've been waiting for - thinking mans horror.  A proper creepy film, The Others came close, but this is much better. Yes, as some others have commented, the pace of the film is pretty slow. But this doesn't detract from it, if fact it gives it a more believable feel.  Fantastic use of sound instead of visuals to convey the strange happenings in small town USA.  This is not to say the visuals are lacking, in fact their very good, possible tending to the too arty for some, but I loved it.  Good acting all round, and the plot doesn't slip into an overly smoochy love element or gun toting shoot-em-up ending - it's not a john carpenter film.  A human tale of disturbing events.   "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was excellent.  Its one of the better ones you will see in 2002. I have this feeling though that it will be another great movie that is extremely under rated.  Thats typical with Americans though.  They only like dumb s*** like 40 Days and 40 nights. "},{"Title":"A Glowing Reccomendation of an outstanding horror film","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  With and amazing plot and beautiful cinematography, The Mothman Prophecies is truly a memorable horror film. This is one of the VERY ELITE few horror films that have terrified me. Mothman posseses a unique intriguing storyline that will have you crying with the main character and then sitting in complete terror as the story progresses. With something new and unexpected around every corner you will jump in shock, and the director uses camera effects that are truly amazing. Similar to those in the Keanu Reeves movie, The Watcher, however, Mothman suceedes in not allowing this to interfere with the story, only add to its suspense.SPOILER FOLLOWINGThe fact that the audience never really sees the mothman. just a short glimpse in the car crash scene, only adds to its suspense and terror, but be sure to look for small areas in the film in which the mothman can be scene (similar to the way it was done in What Lies Beneath).  The final bridge scene is truly one of the most realistic reenactments i have seen in a long time, the suspense was extreme and it was extremely well done.The Mothman Prophecies is a movie that I believe every true horror fan must see.  It is unlike anything else that i have encountered. SEE THIS MOVIE TODAY!!!!!!!! IT WILL BE WELL WORTH THE COST OF ADMISSION! "},{"Title":"Completely and Unexpectedly Terrific!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After being underwhelmed by director Mark Pellington's previous film Arlington Road I went into this with little knowledge of the storyline or anticipation of what I would be seeing.  To my surprise, I was quickly drawn in.  This is one scary film--along the lines of Rosemary's Baby and Don't Look Now (so if you're looking for stalk and slash gore--skip it).  The film is carefully designed and executed to hold you still, chill you and make you think about what you're seeing.  An excellent film that genre fans or anyone seeking something hair-raising should see right away. "},{"Title":"A VERY scary movie!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES was an extremely scary movie! I thought it was brilliant because the terror was mostly based on shadows, lighting, and sounds... rather than a stupid monster popping out of nowhere. It's especially frightening knowing that it's all based on true events. The cast was really terrific! Richard Gere gives his best performance yet and Laura Linney is just as good. Will Patton, Alan Bates, and Debra 'Grace' Messing offer fine supporting work!Go and see this movie IMMEDIATELY!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome.","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was plainly and simply awesome. first of all i just want to say that i can't stand richard gere, but he was good. The movie itself was great. Some of the moments in this movie were unbelievable, it was intensely scary without getting unreal. This movie pulls you in from the opening scene and keeps you there. Some people may say that it loses steam towards the end, but it only slows a little and it picks up again quickly. The fact that this movie is based on actual events is the scariest element of the movie, don't be surprised if you find yourself looking over your shoulder more after this movie. "},{"Title":"Amazing.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My expectations for this film were great.  The film surpassed these expectations by a longshot.The film as a whole kept the entire theatre on the edge of its seat from moment one.  There were wide-eyes, screams, and everybody was holding their date so hard that body circulation was shutting down but no one seemed to care.  Between five-star acting from Richard Gere, five-star sound engineering, and five-star cinematography, this film was an amazing piece for anyone to see.  To be honest, I have never seen such an intense movie in my life.I live approximately 3 hours from Point Pleasant, WV, so this movie hit home perhaps a little more than other people.  The movie expressed all of the myths and sightings that have been on the records for years.  THe adaptation was obviously Hollywood-ized, but real people had many of the experiences that were logged in the movie.  The movie was so stunning to me that the day after I viewed it I actually took a road trip to Point Pleasant to see the sights of the town - which actually matched that of the movie strikingly close.  From someone who is always a critic, I must give this movie the full Gold Star of Approval. "},{"Title":" ... having read the book","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" John Keel's book of the same name (1975) is a cult classic of paranormal investigation. Having interviewed more 'contactees' than any other human being on earth, Keel wrote what is considered the bible of contactee 'culture' in 'The Mothman Prophecies', an account of two years (1966-1967) he spent investigating strange happenings in the little town of Point Pleasant, West Virginia, culminating in a disaster which may of may not have been predicted by the contacting entities. Keel's position is one of fascinated agnosticism and he absolutely refrains from debating whether all these strange phenomena have an actual foothold in reality. The film is a fictional account inspired by this book. I was at first suspicious that the scriptwriters had only borrowed the book's title and location, but there is more than that. The script incorporates at least a dozen of the 200 or so narratives which make up Keel's book. They work them into a very coherent piece of work, although no attempt is made to present the events in chronological order or even turn back the clock to 1966. The main character (Richard Gere)'s interest in the Point Pleasant events is tied in with the grief he feels for his departed wife. As such, the movie becomes as much a reflection on the psychology of mourning as on the existence of a parallel reality. This film has a kinship in this with a lot of Ingmar Bergman's more hermetic movies like 'Hour of the Wolf' (both in content and style), a film like Atom Egoyan's 'The Sweet Hereafter' and the quality of respectful grief which gave 'Titanic' its otherworldly quality. The main difference here is that the village of Point Pleasant seems to be grieving for its victims a long time before the disaster actually happens, because of the prophetic elements of the story. The film is suitably chilling and goes out of its way to at least attempt to make sense of the big question Are the phenomena real or purely subjective? The extraordinary talent of actors like Laura ('You can count on me') Linney (as a police officer who learns to care for the hero, as she does for everyone else in town) and Alan Bates (as a retired paranormal investigator) and a brief but memorable appearance by Debra Messing as Gere's wife complement Richard Gere's 'serenely concerned' persona. Special mention must be made of the inventive cinematography, the unobtrusive but highly evocative special effects, the art direction which makes a small town look even more ordinary and generic in its blandness and the elaborate soundscapes which are an important part of this movie's appeal. "},{"Title":"Does it do the job? HELL YES!!!The scariest movie I've seen","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked Richard Gere in Primal Fear but not much else, usually he's simply being a pretty boy in movies. But i went to see this movie because a local newspaper's critic said This is the scariest movie I've ever seen and then gave no details because she said that knowing anything would take away from that. So that's all I'm saying. SEE IT and PREPARE TO BE DISTURBED. It's really well done too. The director is a genius. Check out his first film, Arlington Road, too. "},{"Title":"Very Cool Adaptation of the Story","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Being a native of West Virginia and living relatively close to Point Pleasant (The Movies main setting) I have studied the Mothman for years. I hoped that the movie was accurate, but yet original. Boy did they nail both of these points. They kept true to the story yet developed a way to make the movie original. I loved the way they changed the film's actual time period from the 50's-60's to nowadays WV. I really enjoyed this film and gave it a 9 out of 10. I think the movie may have been even better had I not studied the Mothman or read the Mothman Prophecies. Still it was awesome. I will definitely see it again. VERY NICE!!!  "}{"Title":"10/10 sleeper of the year!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Call it a hunch, but I have a feeling The Mothman Prophecies just might be the sleeper hit of 2002, and we're only four weeks into the year.  Mothman is quite simply one of the smartest and down right creepy films that has been put out in theaters in some time.  Had the film been released in 2001, it would have easily made the top five of my top ten list.  If this is the sort of film we can expect to see in 2002, well then this is going to be one great year.Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Hitchcock meets the X-Files","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I attended a preview screening at the Egyptian Theater in Los Angeles with a Q&A session following with director Mark Pellington.  This guy has definitely arrived as a filmmaker.I'll get my one negative comment out of the way  While the acting was good all around, Richard Gere's performance become somewhat one-note after a while (one can only grimace in so many ways).  Still, you feel empathy for his character -- we've all been screwed around by forces beyond our control at one point or another in our lives.  And I wish Debra Messing had more screen time -- she's very effective though in the brief role she has; I'll be watching Will and Grace more regularly after seeing this.What amazed me about this film, however, was Richard Hatem's script -- he had a heck of a challenge in taking John Keel's lackluster, repetitive, scatter-shot book and crafting a story around the events in it (NOTE  DO NOT READ THE BOOK before seeing the movie!  It will take away from your enjoyment of the film's climax! And like I said, it's not that good anyway).Mark Pellington grabs you with a slam-bang opening and draws you in with his unique visual stylings.  The audio was also very effective (Pellington mentioned hiring the sound designer before the director of photography). Make sure you see it in a theater with digital surround -- the soundtrack is that important.I look forward to Pellington's next film -- he's definitely a director to watch, and with THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES joins other unique directors like David Fincher and Spike Jonze.Highly recommended if you enjoy thrillers. "},{"Title":"one freaky flick","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I found this movie to be an excellent thriller, for a movie based on a True story! One minute you are seeing something strange, the next your in up to your eyeballs in paranormal predictions, which start coming true.I gave this movie a 10, based on it's captive nature, strange phenomenon, and unexplainable occurrences. you will be intrigued from beginning to,end. Wanting more, than you are given at first, you will be thirsting for much more, then they lay it on you.I can't remember seeing such a captivating movie, in a long time, so grab the popcorn, & your mate, as you'll be needing someone to hold, by the first 15 minutes.(Grab your Teddy if not)  "},{"Title":"Excellent Thriller; Spine-Tingling In Places","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It's hard for me to find any fault with a thriller that literally caused my spine to tingle not just once but several times in the course of the story.It isn't that this is a particularly frightening movie. It's not an edge of your seat, blood and gore type of thriller. It doesn't have hideous monsters. Much - most, in fact - is left to the imagination. And yet this is a movie with an edgy, creepy feel to it that I found got under my skin and really managed to unsettle me. In my opinion, that's the mark of a superb thriller, made even better by a very good performance from Richard Gere in the leading role as a Washington reporter trying to sort out the mystery of Point Pleasant, West Virginia.How faithful is it to the real events that supposedly inspired the story? Truthfully, I have no idea, and would likely qualify as a skeptic anyway. But faithful or not, as sheer entertainment I thought this was an excellent movie, and can really find no fault with it worth noting.10/10  "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER AHEADWho said it is a good film? This is pure crap! The story is illogical and the cinematography is bad. When I saw it, I felt like seeing a film made in the seventies! But even more unbearable are some useless scenes which have virtually nothing to do with the film at all! Also, the ending is not an ending at all! What in the hell has happened? What is the mothman? If the mothman was to provide prophecies only, why did it need to kill Mary and Gordon? There's no explanation at all! Poor! Poor! Poor!Grade F "},{"Title":"Not worth seeing","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to agree with those not in favor of this movie.It is boring, not scary at all. It is more like a strange movie with no purpose.All the negative comments so far tell the story about this movie. Don't waste your money on this one. "},{"Title":"Worst Thing since Supernova","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One word sums this movie up, Sucked. I went to this movie expecting to see a suspensful edge of my seat movie. Boy was i wrong. Throughout the entire sitting through this movie i was literally asking the person next to me, Is this ever going to end? I felt as if the doors had been locked and tear gas was pouring in through the ventalation ducts. I will now go into detail upon why this movie should not exist. A plot with seemingly numerous holes in it is tiredly covered up with redundant camera angles and focus. Perhaps i am just uneducated in the paranormal, but when Gere receives a phone call in his hotel room and the Mothman begins to read his mind, the ever so fabulous ChapStick scene will forever be burned in my mind as the moment where i realized indeed how horrible this movie had been and how i had been suckered out of a few dollars and a few hours of my life in order to sufice Lakeshore's and Mark Pellington's HORRIBLE intent at making a film without, dare i say, a bottom.  "},{"Title":"Gere'd for insect intelligence","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Gosh what can I say? You know every now and then you find your self hornswaggled into taking in a movie based upon the cool title and hope for some substance that will satisfy our innate desire to be scared out of our layers of epidermous.This movie irritated me with hollow hints of nothing, suggestions of portends of pedestrian mysteries, and queasyily far fetched delivered antics.If you're a moth you will love this movie.Have a delightful day. "},{"Title":"Truly, truly awful beyond belief","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Richard Gere plays a reporter for The Washington Post. He has a wife, a good job and a brand new house. Until his wife is hurt in a car accident very soon after buying their new house.She dies just as quickly for no real reason apart from to isolate him and give him something supernatural to experience late in the movie.The opening 20 minutes has nothing happen apart from the accident and his wife's death, neither of these are truly vital to what little plot there actually is in the film so could have been cut and just referred to in dialogue or short flashbacks.A lot of the film could quite easily be cut with little on no damage to the viewing experience (there isn't very much to experience anyway, the film is far too long). the film takes itself far too seriously and it's laughable claims of being based on reality are as about as real as The Blair Witch.I could quite easily cut a whole hour from this film and make it far more watchable and still easy to understand.Gere is not a likable character or at least doesn't play that way for me. I had no sympathy for the loss of his wife (especially it goes she's dead, it's suddenly 2 years later and life's all hunky dory). You need to be able to relate to his loss or feel it. I don't, if they'd spent less time in scenes where hardly anything happens and perhaps shown a bit of what happened in his life during the 2 years where he was coming to terms with losing his wife I might have had a bit more sympathy for him.Anyway he ends up in Point Pleasant, a nicely named town where folks see weird stuff and weird stuff happens. Most of the occurrences are too weird to be based on any kind of reality.Gere gets sucked into the madness and descends into it himself almost to the point of losing his job and everything that matters to him.The end of the film is it's only redeeming moment with the bridge collapse and even then that is far too over done and takes (surprise, surprise) far too long for the event to take place. This should have been shot really quickly with barely any time to react to the event.Gere's reaction to dive into the river to try and save the female cop is insane (especially with all the electrical cables hanging into the water, the fast flowing current, how cold the water would be in December). With all the debris falling into the water the likelihood of one or both of them escaping her car and safely reaching the surface was very low indeed.The ending is very weak indeed with them just saying they didn't know why the bridge collapsed and no-one every saw the Mothman again.Very poor indeed. "},{"Title":"The Mothman Prophecies is one of the great horror films of our time","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" What could have easily been a standard, simplistic shock horror film is elevated to heights of genre excellency by director Mark Pellington, whose first film, Arlington Road, was evidently only a sign of things to come. The Mothman Prophecies is one of the great horror films of our time &#150; matching the eerie tones of isolation and psychological deterioration from The Shining and delivering intelligent thrills instead of cheap scare tactics. It's a daring move for a film called The Mothman Prophecies not to actually feature any visuals of the titular creature, but that's exactly the case here &#150; the film falls back upon old-fashioned chills rather than modern-day thrills. Of the decade so far I would rank it as one of the finest of its genre without hesitation.The film purports to be based on a true story, and although numerous facts are twisted (not least of all that the actual events depicted in the film took place forty years ago and the protagonist of the film, strictly speaking, never really existed), it will easily appeal to those Mothman buffs out there as well as it will to regular audiences. The movie has some nice in-joke references (such as the fact that one character's name, Leek, is Keel spelled backwards &#150; the name of the author of the book Mothman is based upon) and Pellington clearly did his research prior to filming.The movie stars Richard Gere as a Washington reporter who loses his wife (Debra Messing) in a freak car crash. Two years pass and after a long day of work in the office and perpetual unrest, he sets out for a quiet drive to Baltimore. A couple hours later he finds himself hundreds of miles away in Point Pleasant, West Virginia &#150; a town experiencing bizarre happenings that somehow relate to the passing of his wife. People are seeing strange things men in black, demonic beings and a strange winged creature with blood red eyes.The Mothman Prophecies lets everything up to the viewer's imagination &#150; when the reporter gets a telephone call from a man named Indrid Cold who seems to have infinite knowledge and an alien voice, Pellington doesn't draw conclusions. Is Indrid the Mothman? Is Indrid from another world? We don't know &#150; making the proceedings all the more eerie.Some Mothman enthusiasts have claimed the film really doesn't focus enough solely on the Mothman, and tries to turn into a supernatural thriller rather than a documentary-style production on what actually happened in Point Pleasant in 1967. But to be fair, trying to compile all of the insane legends of the town's history into a single film would be disastrous. There exist many other odd events that occurred within the town during the time period of the Mothman sightings, but some of them are downright silly (such as author John A. Keel's alleged contact with extra-terrestrials and the theory that the Mothman is an escaped alien test subject the government had captured). Pellington takes the high road and lays the basics out on the table, and let's viewers draw their own conclusions.Perhaps the most intriguing thing about this film is the fact that Pellington does, in fact, turn his film into a psychological thriller rather than a true horror film. Except for the sloppy ending (which stinks of Hollywood interference), this is a dark, edgy, realistic and un-nerving movie. Like Kubrick's The Shining, it puts you inside the mind of a man driven to the brink of insanity &#150; in this case, fueled by the death of a loved one and pure obsession. There's an interesting twist towards the end of the film that provides some poignant reflection for Gere's character, when he is confronted with the possibility of speaking to his dead wife through the aid of Indrid Cold. But he's left with a big question what if it's not really his wife? How do you want to remember your wife? another character asks him. It's a very effective scene.Gere delivers a fine, surprisingly powerful performance as a grieving man &#150; the character is loosely based on Keel, but there are a lot of dramatic additions, such as the internal conflict involving the death of his wife and his spiritual link with the Mothman himself. But these are not distracting threads &#150; it provides a strong connection between Gere and the Mothman/Indrid Cold. This connection really drives the psychological tension of the film.Directorially this is a very promising example of Pellington's visual finesse behind the camera. Evoking Hitchcock, Kubrick, Polanski and other great artists, Pellington becomes, in many ways, the true star of this picture. The fragmented visuals accompanied by the creepy score by Tomandandy results in one of the finest horror-thrillers in recent memory &#150; a film that works on many levels and, despite some flaws (mainly towards the finale), is a perfect example of why directors are just as vital to a film as the story itself. A criminally underrated film that will hopefully grow in stature and recognition over time. "}{"Title":"Great Mystery Film","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This Richard Gere film I seemed to have missed and once I started viewing it, I was completely captured to the screen and my chair. Richard Gere, (John Klein),Shall We Dance,'04, plays a Washington Post top reporter who decides to buy a nice larger older home with his wife, Debra Messing,(Mary Klein),Will & Grace,'TV series,'98, they are both extremely happy, it is during the Christmas Season and they are very happy in love and decided the make love in one of the closets. It is from that point on in the picture when all kinds of things take a different turn of events. There is good acting by Will Patton, (Gordon Smallwood),The Agency,TV Series 2000, who is a person who becomes deeply involved with strange happenings effecting his entire life. Laura Linney,(Connie Mills),P.S. '04 plays a Police Sgt. who tries to help John Klein with his many problems he seems to experience in a small town in West Virginia. If you like Richard Gere with good acting and lots of action, this is a great mystery. "},{"Title":"Among the worst of Gere","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Sorry, but this film annoyed the dickens out of me. I have been a strong supporter of Richard Gere over the years, but even good actors do bad acting jobs. Is it the director? The script? Or both? I found this bad thriller-type movie boring and repetitive. Long in getting to the point. Gere walks around most of the film with one look on his face, like he's thinking something. His expression is one of Duh. And his voice matched his look. You can't hear him speak. He whispers throughout most of the film. Every time he spoke I had to turn up the volume of my set. We all know he's done much better work. Mark Pellington directed this chestnut. WILL AND GRACE's Debra Messing plays his wife and you wish you could be watching that series at the moment. Not much to say about what she does in this except make you glad she stuck to comedy. Good to see actor Will Patton, though, whom I've admired over the years. He plays an interesting role very well and helps bring this movie to some believability. But watch WILL AND GRACE, it's lots more fun. I give this 3/10 rating for Mr. Patton's work. "},{"Title":"The Mothman Prophecies! One of the greatest films!","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is a great spooky film. The cast is very good. Richard Gere, Will Patton, Laura Linney, Debra Messing, and Alan bates all acted greatly in this film. In fact, this may arguably be the best film these actors has ever been in. Their characters are very likable. The music is tremendous. There are so many countless great scenes in this picture but one that is incredible is when Will Patton is in his truck and he is confronted by The Mothman! This scene with the great showing of it, the color, and the music made it extraordinary! The film is so interesting. Mothman Prophecies is great film. Its one of the best that I have seen! I strongly recommend this film!Movie Nuttball's NOTEI believe in The Mothman as I am a believer of most of unidentified creatures in Cryptozoology, mythical and mysterious creatures in the world such as Bigfoot, The Lochness Monster, The Jersey Devil, The Goatman, The Chupacabra, and among many others. I also believe in the unexplained phenomena and mysteries such as aliens and spirits. Whether you are a believer in these things or not, I believe they are very real. We are not alone in the universe and we certainly do not know everything that is on our Earth! These are My thoughts! Thanks for reading!  "},{"Title":"Very loosely based on events in the late 1960s in Point Pleasant, WV.","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Roger Ebert has a very complete review of The Mothman Prophecies, although his rating is a bit lower than mine. About 10 years ago I had several occasions to travel to Point Pleasant, WV and Gallipolis, Oh on business. The locals mentioned the old collapsed bridge and its location, but no one mentioned the Mothman sightings.  I suppose if they had, I might not have slept as well! This isn't a great movie, but it kept my interest all the way. Although it is based on accounts during 1966 and 1967 in West Virginia, the characters and even the dates are changed. For convenience, this movie set certain events on Christmas eve, events which actually happened on December 15th. It also shows several instances of the 'mothman' predicting future happenings. There's nothing wrong with any of that, if the authors wanted the change for dramatic effect, it just points out that this is intended to be a mostly fictional story and not strongly based on fact.Perhaps more interesting, once one has seen the movie, is to read a few of the websites devoted to the mothman sightings. Although many of the reports came from very reputable members of the community, there has never been any explanation of what this creature might have been. And, there was no indication that any prophesies were attributed to the mothman.The DVD has a good presentation, and the soundtrack is a highlight, one of the few that actually startled me at times when it was supposed to. "},{"Title":"Absoloute rubbish","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this is an absoloutely rubbish boring film, filmed rubbishly, not even scary AT ALL, u dont see the mothman, the plot seems to disappear half way through, and it is just another US horror film isnt even scary...they waste money hiring expensive actors like Richard Gere and Deborah Messing but it doesn't improve the filom..if u want horror and want 2 b scared, go and watch Long Time Dead..it is soo much scarier and will absoloutely make u jump "},{"Title":"Richard Gere is really a fish - Spoiler","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yet another American movie where the hero saves a woman from drowning in a car which has just plunged into a freezing body of water by holding his breath under water for several hours. They must have good swimming schools in the U.S.And that was the best part of the film. The only thing which kept me interested during the long lead up was trying to remember which other film I'd seen Laura Linney in. It was The Truman Show. Now that you know that, there's not much to keep your mind occupied while you're watching this garbage. It's not scary. It's just very boring. "},{"Title":"terrible film","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Perhaps it was the fact that I thought this movie was going to be more of an action movie than a horror flick, but quite honestly this was the worst I ever saw.  Not only was it scary as hell, but the movie never seemed to use the scariness for anything but shock value.  Also, it never let up, there was no happiness at the end, and just when you thought it couldn't get anymore worse (both scarier and farther away from good), it miraculously did.  Seeing The Mothman Prophecies (which, by the way, that thing didn't even somewhat resemble a creature that could pass for a moth) was one of the worst movie-seeing decisions of my life. "},{"Title":"What was Richard Gere thinking?!?!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just got back from an advance screening of the Mothman Prophecies at the University of Rochester.  The entire crowd laughed and mocked Richard Gere and the entire film throughout.  Many people were constantly walking out of this film because of how laughable it was.  I haven't seen a movie this bad in years.  Once this hits screens across the nation Richard Gere will be sorry for ever accepting this script.  What a waste of my time; it wasn't even scary!  The characters were never built so you never got the connection with them that the movie had hoped for.  The connection between Richard Gere and Laura Linney just plain didnt exist, which makes the climax wasted because you dont feel any sentimentality between the characters.  I gave the movie a 2 rather than a 1 only because it had Richard Gere in it who is a great actor.  Richard that 2 is a handout!  Im being nice by giving you that 2!  Don't screw up again or it will be a 1 next time. "},{"Title":"Utter Drivel","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the most tedious films I have ever had the misfortune to sit through. I started watching it one night and dropped to sleep after 50 minutes. I finished watching the following night and couldn't wait for it to end. Nothing about this film was entertaining and I could'nt recommend it to anyone. Sorry to those who liked it, but it did nothing for me. (Having said that, with the exception of Chicago, nothing starring R. Gere ever has!) "},{"Title":"Another waste of celluloid with Gere in it","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The book was pretty hopeless, and this is no better.  No plot to speak of, a jumble of contradiciting impressions, lots of bad acting.  There is no suspense whatsoever, no thrills of any stripe, in fact very little interest.  My wife, who's been known to jump at Mike Hammer films, fell asleep watching this wretched mess. "}{"Title":"Should've been called the Boredom Prophecies","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There is only one word to truly describe this film... C R A P . I was utterly and thoroughly disguted with it. I've never been more bored and mentally drained after watching this garbage. And this was suppose to be based on a real story? Come on!! Gere's character was as dull as a butterknife and his leading lady, what a joke. Oh yeah, I believed she was a cop. Come on people. The idea that a mothman appears before a disaster is just completely stupid. I would have a better belief in the Grim Reaper appearing or the 4 horseman of the apocalypse, but not a Mothman. I was hoping that the infamous Gerbil would appear to console Richard Gere and provide (at least) a minor glint of humor. The story was weak, and story appeared to go no where. The only decent character that was in the story was his wife, who died early in the movie. They should've kept her and killed everyone else off. Come on Mothman, you took out the wrong people. I'm sorry, avoid this film at all cost, pretend that the Mothman has call you and warned you about it, to avoid the disaster, which is watching it. Please Mr. Mothman, take out Richard Gere's acting career, make that disaster end.  "},{"Title":"That was it?!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie started out slow and got WORSE!  After really enjoying The Others, I thought I would give this movie a try.  What an extreme disappoinment.  To those that claim to have enjoyed this pile - have you tried watching paint dry?  I'm sure you would be able to be entertained by that as well!I'm going to write Richard Gere for my money back. "},{"Title":"I prophesy disaster","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Badly written pseudo-thriller claptrap shot and edited like a pain reliever commercial. The electrical impulse prophesying voice of the Mothman that comes out of the sink at one of the crazed characters would have been more appropriate coming out of the toilet. Richard Gere looks suitably horrified throughout, probably because he's thinking about what this mess is going to do to his career. "},{"Title":"A Very Third Rate Movie That Shows No Promise / Suspense","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had high expectations of Mark Pellington's The Mothman Prophecies after his superb thriller Arlington Road which I really loved, and hope one day to own on DVD.The trouble with The Mothman Prophecies lies with its dreadful script - one of the worst scripts, surely ??? To compensate for the bad script, with slow plodding where nothing happens, Pellington chooses to use cinematography to create atmospheric mood to reflect the supernatural; overall I thought the cinematography was extremely distracting in places and was one of the main factors along with the script, which ultimately makes M.P's a cinematic disaster. Pellington has done much better than this with his superb Arlington Road which had a well crafted and pacey plot which made you want to hang on the back of your seat.Richard Gere didn't do much for me either... The only film I found his suitably convincing and sincere in was his role as the lawyer in Primal Fear which stars the wonderful Ed Norton.Someone stated that this should be movie of the year based on what they've seen so far.. I am going to decry that statement, and instead suggest this  movie is on par on par to being the worst turkey of the year, and one of the worst directed movies I've ever watched. I would not even recommend people watch this movie on video..If you want to watch a superior film from Mr. Pellington, and haven't seen Arlington Road, do yourself a big favour and give this movie a big berth, and hire A.R instead.I was lucky I didn't have to pay the $12.80 ticket admission price to see this 'mumbo jumbo' piece of cod's wallop. If Pellington had had any sense he should have been credited himself anonymously with a 'Smithies' title...VERDICT possible the most boring film I've ever had to sit through..  "},{"Title":"Oh my god, this sucked.","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wow...its been over a year since my last root canal, and this has got to be the worst thing I've had to endure since then.  This movie was abysmally bad.  There was no plot that I could detect, although to be fair I did fall asleep about an hour into the movie, only to be awakened by my wife a few minutes later with orders to turn this crap off.  If you enjoy endlessly repetitive, poorly lit, poorly acted, unrelated scenes with no entertainment value whatsoever, then I still suggest you not watch this film.  Instead, try something less painful, such as Manos, the Hands of Fate, Ishtar, or perhaps a lit cigar to the back of the hand.  "},{"Title":"I wasted $7.50, on this crappy movie?","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, first off this horror film is anything BUT horrifying.  After the first five minutes of this movie was over, the only thing I looked forward to, was the ending credits.  I know there are a few fanatics of myth and mystery fantasy, like the mothman junk, but this movie really tried to find a plot out of nothing.This movie would have been better off to be a 30 minute sitcom show, spun off from the X-Files or Star Trek.  I saw this movie with a friend, and he feels the same way that I do about the movie.  After the movie was over I asked several people (who I did not know) what there opinion was of the movie that we all just saw.  No one thought it was a good movie, most people I asked said they would ask for there money back if they could.Confusing side plots, weird upclose views that go in and out of focus of everyday objects, and trying to make anything and everything seem scary. One close up of a DOT highway orange and white drum with a little flashing light on it lasted 60 seconds in this movie.  You heard something growl a little and that was it.  That is stupid, just plain stupid.  This movie needs to be changed from horror to fact-based documentary or something like that.Watching Dumb and Dumber is scarier than this movie.  I have no idea why this is rated R.  I could see PG-13 for being confusing only.  If it made more sense, PG tops. Please, do not waste your time or money on this film. Do not buy it or rent it when it comes out on VHS/DVD.  Wait for it to be released on TV and then see it.  I promise you, you will turn it off after five minutes.If I had known then what I know now, I would have walked out of that movie. It was awful, and I will not recommend it to anyone.  "},{"Title":"DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY!!!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this movie tonight and I wasted my dollar (it was at a discount theater). By the end of the movie with its extremely predictable tie-it-all-together ending I was crying out loud for the movie to end. Even though it is about two hours long it felt like three and a half. This might be a result from the terribly slow beginning (which never picks up). I read the happy review of this movie on this webpage and went in with some decent expectations. NOPE! *make bomb dropping sounds here* I kept waiting for something to happen. Maybe that was the real sitting on the edge of my seat feeling that the supporters of this movie had. Blah. I was not scared. I was not forced to think about what if we arent alone or we dont control everything! OH MY! Dang I can't bash this movie enough. I think I am going to make my own website like badmovies.org to really tell you people what I think. ARRRGGGHHHHH!!!! I feel so empty. I need a hug and someone to tell me everything is alright. I hope the mothman doesnt get me..... "},{"Title":"Incoherent Mess","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is an incoherent mess. After having high hopes from reading about the actual incidents at Point Pleasant in the 60s, I thought that this movie might be good. Unfortunately, anything that might pull the movie out of the boredom- inducing coma that it wallows in for most of its running time is only described by the actors. There are no sightings of  Mothman. The film strays from the facts. The non-existant score is made up of one night. There is no variation in the tone of the movie. It maintains the same morbid, depressing, and grey tone throughout.I would not recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"SIMPLY DREADFUL!!!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen a lot of bad movies, many of them recently.  I'm always amazed at what trash will get funded by major studios.  SAVING SILVERMAN!!!  FREDDIE GOT FINGERED!!!  TOMB RAIDER!!  But one thing those movies had going for them...I got through them.  MOTHMAN PROPHECIES put me to sleep in the movie theatre!!!  That never happens.  I can endure just about anything, except I'd never realised how lethal a combination of dark images, people whispering a lot, a totally worthless plot that's damn near impossible to follow and Richard Gere can be.  I dozed several times.Much has been made of how creepy the movie is.  True, they do try to make it creepy and mysterious, but frankly, you should at some point be able to say...Ah, I see what's going on, or atleast to say at the end of it all, Now I know what happened.  THE SIXTH SENSE was slow and you didn't know what was going on, but it was well crafted and kept one interested in what would happen next.  MOTHMAN drains interest with every passing moment.THe final scenes, where a disaster happens, are actually well made.  The low budget actually helps the events seem more realistic.  But by then, you are flabbergasted that this is all the payoff the movie will give you!!  I wanted my two hours back, right now!!Laura Linney, who I used to dislike, but really loved in YOU CAN COUNT ON ME, is totally wasted.  Her character is only a character in that she wears a costume and says lines, but she is a total cipher.  Will Patton, whom I do like a lot, is a creepy character with no payoff whatsoever.  What the heck happened to the character.  Lots of creepy things that never get fully explained.  Why did Richard Gere's wife see the Mothman?  Who knows.  Why did Richard Gere suddenly show up in this strange town?  Never fully explained.  Why does the mothman call Richard Gere and sound threatening?  Is Richard Gere in trouble?  We don't know, since sometimes it appears the mothman may actually have good motives...but maybe not?  If you like movies cold, confusing, slow, dark, badly acted and unresolved...MOTHMAN may be for you.  If you like anything remotely entertaining, stay away. "},{"Title":"Overlong car commercial filmed with the new Mothcam","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  While very impressionable audiences will be filled with dread by the brooding violins or pulse-racing drum-machine soundtrack, and the frequent camera pans of odds and ends or backs of people's heads, nothing materializes to be scary. The two antagonists, the mothman apparition and the prognosticating phone caller (who are never definitely proved to be the same entity) don't intentionally cause harm. The mothman is only shown vaguely in flashbacks, and just plays peeping tom. The phone caller isn't some psycho calling to announce his future crimes, he's more like the weatherman, and no one blames bad weather on the weatherman. So what's left besides the usual filmic scare tactics that lead nowhere, without even a plot or coherent story to fall back on? An exciting climax? The suspenseful 'can-we-prevent-the-prophecy-from-happening?' ending was much better done in The Night has a 1000 eyes. The Mothman Prophecies races into increasing chaos, without style or content, shot and edited without any human rhythm, which suggests a real moth was directing. It's no surprise that it induces motion sickness. The only discernible thread running through this is our hero's car which, aside from stalling out once, can hit an ethereal mothman, can travel 500 mile in 2 hours, and survive a collapsing bridge. I predict that in 2003 Ford will debut a new model, the Ford Mothman Explorer. "}{"Title":"Richard Gere confronts the supernatural","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies (2002) is not a bad movie, not bad at all. It's actually very good for about the first half or more. But then the story loses momentum and direction. The promise of the beginning part dissipates. Only in the climax does the story regain some kind of footing. The reason for this is that the story shifts away from the supernatural and toward the mental state of the obsessed Richard Gere, its protagonist. I think it has to do this. It also diverts into some sub-plots that really do not tie in that well with the main plot or augment it. These include the fate of the character played by Will Patton (and played well) and a man who wrote a book on similar phenomena and warns Gere off. Still, I liked the movie.This is a horror movie, having the classical central element of a horror movie which is the presence of the unexplained supernatural. There is a lot of that in this story and none of it is explained, as it cannot be explained in terms of the natural. One has to accept that limitation on stories like this. There is really not that much of an attempt to understand even the basic physical impossibility of Gere ending up where he has at the story's outset. If that's possible, then so are many other things.Instead, and rightly so, the story focuses on the more interesting questions of why Gere has been chosen, what he's expected to do, what he can or cannot accomplish, and what sorts of interactions he should seek and have with the supernatural spirit that has affected both him and other residents of the town of Point Pleasant. This is the heart of the story, and it makes for an engaging movie.This movie is also a beautifully-photographed neo-noir. It seems that neo-noir is a natural for telling some horror and sci-fi movies as well as the usual mysteries and crime stories.The movie expresses some decent philosophy within its context of supernatural fiction. I do not take this story as being true or even a facsimile of the events upon which it is based. Not at all. I take this as fiction inspired by whatever happened. Anyway, the philosophy is that the supernatural with respect to the dead has its realm and the natural has its realm, and it's best to keep them apart. Trying to step over the line can lead to madness. This is all expressed by Kate Winslet's character. The budding love story between her and Gere in the movie is handled very nicely.All in all, I think that the IMDb rating of 6.5 is about right, expressing that this movie is somewhat above par. "},{"Title":"Outstanding - best film on metaphysical phenomenon I've ever seen!!!!!","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I cannot praise this film highly enough and I'm so saddened to see its low rating on IMDb. I guess people just don't really understand it, or maybe it really frightens them in an unpleasant way. The subject actually is very scary in its implications and execution, but so incredibly well done!As a professional psychic medium with decades of experience, knowledge and training in the occult and metaphysics, this is by FAR the best, most intelligent movie I have seen on the subject (another favorite of mine is Simon, King of the Witches, which is about magic and the occult).The movie covers a wide range of metaphysical phenomena - spirits, electronic voices, strange creatures, precognition, harbingers of disaster - in a way that is both meaningful and incredibly eerie. I love the sense of mystery woven throughout the film, as the bottom line is...we will never understand this mystery and perhaps, as Alan Bates' character asserts, we're not meant to. Maybe these scenarios are created by intelligent energies for their own purposes, maybe it's their idea of a movie or a joke, or maybe they just manipulate vulnerable people into believing lies to capture their souls. I was reminded of how the witches in Macbeth tell him a number of true prophecies, only to lure him into negative behaviors, but don't tell him the complete one at the end. We may just never know what the story is - I think we can only go by how it makes us feel. If it creates a bad feeling, it's probably a bad thing. And vice versa.The performances are uniformly excellent, especially Richard Gere, who is a much better and sensitive actor than I had realized before. Alan Bates is marvelous as the psychic researcher who got burned by his subject. The movie is worth seeing even just for the bridge collapse at the end which is an astounding piece of work.I rate movies by what I might change about them...the more I can think of to change, the lower my rating. There is not a SINGLE thing I would change about The Mothman Prophecies! Ten cosmic stars!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Love it desperately","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I fell in love with this movie at the first sight. Its atmosphere, music, acting, artistic impression, everything is perfect. Splashes of red or pink in every shot. Lightning is perfect. Colours are perfect. That shot in slow-motion of Richard Gere walking through the chophouse and that painting in the background, it is unforgettable. This movie I've watched maybe 30 times. And it never be boring. Never makes me tired of it. I no way named it as a horror. It is mystery, drama, but not a horror, people who see it like that see it wrong.And soundtrack. Brilliant. Cacophonic melodies. And for critics Alexander Leek You're asking for an explanation for something that can't be explained rationally. Do not try to grasp this movie rationally.Btw everyone who in the movie saw mothman, died. "},{"Title":"Read the book instead","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I know I'm biased because The Mothman Prophecies is one of my all-time favorite books, but don't bother with this movie; read the book instead.The book is about John Keel's attempt to make sense of the strange happenings in Point Pleasant in late 1966 through 1967. The story is a fascinating mix of phenomena, crypto-zoological creatures, UFOs, Men in Black, paranormal activity, etc. Unfortunately you wouldn't know that if you just watch the movie. Seriously, it's like they literally took everything that was interesting and cut it out.Then they had to make it a love story, which was the book was not. It's like everything that I hate about Hollywood.It was also not set in the time period that it actually happened in, and with this material, it definitely makes a big difference.I'm still hoping that someday, someone will have the courage to make the real Mothman Prophecies film that deserves to be made. Until then, I'll just keep rereading my copy of the book. "},{"Title":"your fate is coming","Date":"14 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Most people have probably never heard of the Mothman, which will make The Mothman Prophecies eerier. The Mothman was a figure that appeared to some people in West Virginia in the 1960s and predicted disasters. John Keel wrote a book about the sightings.The movie is a fictionalized account, with Richard Gere as a newspaper columnist investigating the sightings. Some of the scenes came across as silly, but I liked the phone calls, and especially the climax. Laura Linney once again proves herself a fine actress, playing a cop helping Gere's character investigate. A downside is that Alan Bates doesn't get enough screen time. As for the Mothman himself, we might never know what exactly he was or where he came from.No, it's not the best thriller. Mark Pellington had a better entry in this genre with Arlington Road. But it's worth seeing. I now hope to read Keel's book. Most importantly, the climax should be a call to repair our infrastructure. "},{"Title":"The Mothman Joke!","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies (2002) Dir Mark Pellington / Cast Richard Gere, Laura Linney, Will Patton, Debra Messing, Lucinda Jenney Dull thriller that is supposedly based on fact. Richard Gere and Debra Messing move to Point Pleasant and purchase a new house but a car accident renders Messing with a severe head injury that eventually takes her life. Apparently she was consumed by a red flash before going off the road. Two years pass and Gere ends up in Point Pleasant again without knowledge as to how he got there. He knocks on a door and is confronted by a shotgun brandishing Will Patton who claims to have been irritated by knocking the past few nights. Intriguing plot fodders to a villain or force that just isn't threatening. Great production and fine directing by Mark Pellington who previously made Going All the Way. Gere holds his own as he struggles to figure out the past and current dilemma. The rest of the cast looks about as confused as the muddled foolishness going on around them. Patton is reduced to a bumbling buffoon. Laura Linney plays a police woman whose dreams have a connection to the conclusion but it makes no sense. The ending doesn't exactly give viewers their money's worth in terms of an explanation but this film is more or less a special effects feature with a plot every bit as real as the Easter Bunny. It is a pointless flash of stupidity. Score 3  / 10 "},{"Title":"A lot of style, but not much substance","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie excelled in its audio-visuals. It was almost like being in a horror-themed video game. The filmmakers must have used pretty well every trick in the cinematic book to convey a sense of creepiness, horror and tension. Not just a few tricks either, but a range of tricks, so it didn't get tedious. The end result was a movie with a certain stylishly spooky mood.However, the content didn't work for me. I don't want to give away too much but it was an elaborate and completely new story about inexplicable omniscient beings who manifest themselves at certain times and places when disasters are about to occur. And apparently they can only communicate with us in ways that are spooky or frightening.I just didn't buy this premise (once it was explained). After a while, I realized it was just mood for the sake of mood. The initial spookiness dissipated for me and it become even a little annoying. I'm not enough of a horror movie fan to be able to survive on this. I need more substance.It's worth about 6.5. "},{"Title":"You've got about 2/3 of a good movie, so it's worth a rental","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies is often very interesting and even frightening, it just misses the boat on what could have been a really great thriller because of some pacing issues and an ending that's a little nutty. Richard Gere stars as newspaper columnist John Klein who early in the film gets into a car accident while his wife is driving. Mary (Debra Messing) swerves to avoid a creature and ends up dying shortly after of a brain tumor. Was it the strange black-winged, red-eyed creature that caused this? Two years later, Klein inexplicably finds himself in the small town of Point Pleasant, West Virginia when his car breaks down. In the town he finds dozens of reports of people who have seen this mothman and he decides to investigate. He teams up with local police officer Connie Mills (Laura Linney) as they document sightings, injuries, hallucinations and finally, strange prophecies foretelling deaths. Klein gets increasingly involved in the cases.This movie has a really solid first half. There's just enough sort-of explainable weirdness going on that you believe this is based on a true story and that Klein would stick around to see what is going on. As he uncovers some clues that may explain what happened to his wife, you start getting a bad feeling about the whole thing. Then we've got the creepy reports from people who have seen the creature, a strong message from an expert that warns him to stay away that further peak your curiosity and that increasing dread as you realize this guy is in way over your head. As I said before, it gets downright creepy and frightening when you finally start to learn about this strange Indrid Cold character. The unexplainable but kind of mundane stuff just keeps pilling up until you know something really bad is going to happen. Then the second half, the movie really switches gears and doesn't work nearly as well. It's like the director couldn't make up his mind as to whether he wanted to make a thriller that built itself up slowly, setting itself up for some big, but sparse scares, or a nutty supernatural monster movie about a possibly benevolent, possibly maleficent force that we as humans have no way of understanding. It ends up just being a bit of both and not paying off for either camp.Some of the problems in this movie are truly hard to describe because they have to do with the jarring switch in tone and atmosphere of the story. There's a scene where we see a face in a mirror within Klein's apartment. It should be a big jump scare but because of the tone of the scene and the way it was shot, it's more of a weird surprise that only creeps you out if you're fast-forwarding through the film (which is how it got me all creeped out). The movie begins so smart and towards the end, we get yet another movie where the characters in the film have never seen or ready any story where ghosts, monsters or aliens are involved. Klein hears about a prophecy concerning a great tragedy on the Ohio River and like a fool basically runs around screaming, blabbering about doomsday and not even coming up with a clever story to explain why he is acting so weird.Despite the missteps along the way, it could have all been wrapped up neatly with a tight ending. One that doesn't explain too much, leaves enough to the imagination to play with your head and make you wonder if the mothman is still out there kind of thing. In a way, the film actually does have an ending like this that works really well and leaves itself ambiguous without feeling like it's a cop-out non-ending. It's a very creepy moment where Klein is waiting for a phone call. I couldn't make up my mind about what I wanted to see. Did I want him to do the smart thing and tear the phone from its wall, throw it in the trash can and run away with his fingers plugging his ears? Did I want him to answer the phone, regardless of the consequences? Unfortunately, that scene, the film keeps on going. We get a scene with a lot of cool special effects that goes on for way too long, doesn't belong at all in this movie and unfortunately features horrendous sound editing. You know those three stock screams you hear a lot in movies? We're talking about the Wilhelm scream, the Howie scream and that third overused one that only belongs in a movie if it's a joke. Yes, they are all present in the climax and it really hurts the film.Overall, The Mothman Prophecies isn't really that bad, it's just underwhelming. In the end it becomes another one of those spooky, supernatural movies that stayed pretty faithful to the truth except for a few glaring parts that were totally blown out of proportion to make a standard Hollywood story. It's a nice way to spend two hours though so as a rental or if it's playing on TV I recommend it, partially because what it does right it really does well and also because there's enough believable stuff going on here that if you watch it with someone else it will be a lot of fun to discuss. (Widescreen version on DVD, November 17, 2013) "},{"Title":"What do you see?","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies is apparently based on actual events that occurred in Point Pleasant, West Virginia. The Mothman Prophecies is about a reporter that is drawn to a small West Virginia town to investigate a series of strange events, including psychic visions and the appearance of bizarre entities. The movie has a whole eerie feeling to it and one of the main reasons that makes it so eerie is because it is apparently based on actual events. I especially found the sub- plot of John and Mary Klein's relationship to be sad, an example of this is where Richard Gere's character, John Klein, said in the aftermath of his wife's death played by Debra Messing, Two weeks ago, we were house hunting. One day you're just driving along in your car, and the universe just points at you and says, Ah, there you are, a happy couple. I've been looking for you. I've been looking for you., I really found this to be an incredibly moving sentiment, does this mean that the universe has plans for us and that there is no hiding place from destiny no matter how happy we are? John Klein was looking for answers to why his wife had to leave him so early but he got more questions than answers, when Indrid Cold, said that, Mary Klein cannot be found by looking. You will see her in time. When The Mothman Prophecies was first released it received many negative reviews but I think those reviews are unfair as it is my opinion that The Mothman Prophecies is an incredible eerie moving horror movie that has never been surpassed or never will be. "},{"Title":"Eeriness at it's best.","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" There is only one movie I can honestly give a 10 out of 10 for the simple reason there will never be any other movie like it, no matter how they try to; and that movie is 2001 - A Space Odissey.There are however some well deserved 9's, and The Mothman Prophecies is one of them (IMHO).Here are my reasons for my score- The acting is top notch. - The Sound Track is as eerie as the movie it self (Kudos to Tomandandy) - The story though loosely based on a book covering real events) is gripping and well developed. - The photography is quite excellent and makes full use of darkness and half-light. - The dialogs are meaningful and some of them will stick in your head. - Nothing in this movie happens without a reason and everything is interconnected either through the main characters and/or surroundings; which makes the whole movie a tight universe of moving parts. - The actors are perfect for their roles. - It's a rather interesting mix of Film-Noir, Suspense and Thriller (and this is achieved masterfully). But I would not consider it as a horror movie. Not per se at least. I must have watched this Gem of a movie at least some 20 times. I took quite a joy renting it over and over again in order to revisit it's eeriness and have a go at the Sound Track, until I bought a copy. The only other movie I ever did that with was Jacob's Ladder, also a Masterpiece. They are two different beasts, but so worth it.My most sincere congratulations to all the people involved in the making of this movie. "}{"Title":"A Mystery of the Elusive Mothman","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A few years ago I was going to collage for metaphysical sciences. Within those courses there is an area of study for phenomena - the mothman was one listed under it that I had to study. While doing some online research I found out there was a movie (that I never knew existed) about The Mothman. So I watched the film - I decided that it may help with my studies in the area of phenomena and the movie was based on some of the events that took place surrounding the mystery of the elusive mothman.The film is good - pretty exciting to watch. What I liked about it, it gave us the stories that went around about the mothman and at the end how the mothman vanished. Yes the movie is worth watching.One would have to do some research and/or take a course on phenomena to dive deeper into the mothman mysteries in order to form a solid opinion if the mothman is true or false. Watching the movie The Mothman can also help you with that decision.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Creepy as hell","Date":"25 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was introduced to this movie in a history class back in my freshman year, and to this date just hearing the title 'Mothman Prophecies' continues to send chills down my spine. This film is a prime example that you do not need explosions of blood, dumb teenagers, and lame jump scares to create a thrilling and dark atmosphere. From the drawings in the hospital, to the eerie phone calls, and the unsettling music, this movie delivers, it is a real shame how underrated it is.I owe a lot to this story, not only did it introduce me to one of my favorite mysterious phenomenons The Mothman, but it also succeeded in leaving an impact on me. The very thought of encountering such an entity is terrifying to even think about, for over two months I was constantly looking behind my back in the dark, expecting big red eyes following me, or finding a demonic face looking at me in the mirror. They were not fun times.It's safe to say that 'The Mothman Prophecies' is an excellent psychological thriller, and it is worth checking out if you are in the mood for the unknown. I have not read the novel by John Keel, but I may consider it. 7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Revisited this after getting scared as a kid","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie when I was young back when it first came out, and I remember that I was terrified because of it for weeks. Even the mere sight of average moths at nighttime afterward scared me for a while. So, for children, yes, it's pretty scary (or maybe I was a wuss, this is very much entirely possible).Rewatching it now, this is definitely a good psychological thriller. I'm not a big fan of Richard Gere but he does an impeccable job in this film; he's charming and you begin to genuinely care about what is going on through his burgeoning interest. The art direction is also well done in this film and overall the story is pretty engaging. "},{"Title":"Wheres the Mothman","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hi All, Couldn't believe that I did see the movie completely. Yes, I did. If you are here to really see a horror movie, I say this isn't called a Horror. Its very slow, Movie revolving a story and instincts of people, dreams and what not.Couldn't see any Mothman, also cannot remember any good scenes just more like of a Drama and in the end things coming true what people have seen or dream of. Nothing Great. I was having hard time to be in the movie and was astonished to see the movie end without any good scene. Most of the time went away like Yes, now I think something serious is going happen.Stay Away if really looking for a good horror flick, this ain't horror. "},{"Title":"DAMN!  Talk about a Mystery Wrapped in an Enigma and Placed in a Sphincter...  Heh...  Seriously, a VERY intense, moody, and atmospheric Thriller.  Blu-ray Very Good A8 V8","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Well, you know what I mean...Anyway, usually I do not bother to add a review with over 400 frigg'n reviews already here, but I just HAD to use that Summary title  )Good film. Excellent Mystery. Great Suspense and Atmosphere (I don't know why I'm capitalizing these words...) Seriously though, this movie really grabs and involves you, not with any obvious or shocking violence or anything that passes for 'entertainment' today. But, it does well in building up the evidence and the clues and does indeed become more and more 'Eerie' as the story progresses.Well written, paced, and acted. Richard Gere does a good job, nothing outstanding (I liked him a LOT better in the recent 'ARBITRAGE') but decent. And the whole 'Mothman' prophetic thing is done well, not giving ANY explanation of course, but enough to get your attention and make you wonder what the HELL is going on.Some really nice dramatic moments, especially involving Will Patton, who I feel steals the entire show acting wise. I'm not normally a fan of his particular 'schtick', but in this case it works beautifully and makes the film.I remember the X-FILES episode surrounding this legend, but I don't remember it in detail. I don't remember the prophetic element, but it might have been there (was there even ONE legend that the X-FILES failed to portray in their show...? Don't think so)So, if you like a GOOD Mystery, a LOT of unknowns, Unexplained but verified happenings, and that creepy feeling that something is indeed pulling at your sphincter, then you should enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"For those intended","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies ventures into a world, where science and reality diverge. Where mysterious happenings and figments are truths. A seemingly happy life of John Klein (Richard Gere) collapses, when his wife Mary (Debra Messing) is diagnosed with a brain tumour. The event esoterically collides with an unexplained occurrence, where Mary sees a clouded moth figure encroaching her being. After Mary's death, John returns to his life as an investigative Washington Post journalist, until an unexplained episode has him transported into a small West Virginia town of Point Pleasant, where he is thrown back into the enigmatic universe of the Mothman.Partly presented as interviews, where figments of imagination and undecipherable from logic and hard reality, and filmed with a intrusive, engulfing vision, which shakes up the imagination and makes the mystery all the more cryptically enticing. Not so much a horror per se, although I honestly have seldom been as freaked out by the imagery offered by director Mark Pellington and cinematographer Fred Murphy. Instead it is a voyage into a possibility of other realities lurking behind what is subjective and scientifically conceived. Supposedly the Mothman is an entity from folklore, which has been witnessed amongst other in Point Pleasure, the epicentre of the strange phenomena. Obviously a fictionalised account it does go to great lengths to never overly explain any mystery within the movies, instead leaving most to imagination and ergo creating a lingering sense of otherworldly presence. Very successful in creating atmosphere the main storyline itself focused on John and his incapability of letting go, proved somewhat of a distraction from the more intriguing conversion of realities offered by the Mothman enigma.Cinematographically is absolutely brilliant in creating a unique mystery and invariably causes reluctant skin crawling sensations, thus providing a strong outlet for some remarkable scenes with the darkly lustrous entity. Seamlessly mixing in classical horror conventions with an inventive style The Mothman Prophecies is at worst a captivating experience, which does nonetheless overstay it welcome by offering a somewhat unneeded culmination, where a lingering mystery would be probably better serving. "},{"Title":"Indrid Cold Will Chill You","Date":"31 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Laura Linney, one of Hollywood's preeminent mainstream actresses of the early 21st century, made a pair of highly effective horror pictures in 2002 and 2005 that share a number of notable similarities. The Mothman Prophecies, the earlier film, and The Exorcism of Emily Rose are both products of the Screen Gems/Lakeshore Entertainment production company, and both deal with supernatural events that are purportedly based on real-life incidents. Both films go far in convincing the viewer of the possibility of the bizarre happenings portrayed as being genuine and real (unknowable, highly advanced life forms watching over mankind in the first; demonic possession in the latter), and both, strangely enough, clock in at precisely 119 minutes. But whereas the exorcism film was based on a German case, transplanted here to midland America, Mothman retains its real-life setting and historical basis--the collapse of the Silver Bridge in Point Pleasant, West Virginia, on 12/15/67; a disaster that killed 46 people--but updates it to modern times.In the film, the viewer meets a Washington Post reporter named John Klein, whose life is shattered in the film's opening minutes when his wife (Debra Messing) dies following a freakish auto accident. Lying in the hospital, Mrs. Klein obsessively draws pictures of a strange, winged apparition that had appeared to her right before her crash. Two years later, the still-grieving Klein, while driving from D.C. to Richmond to cover a story, finds that he has somehow traveled over 400 miles in 90 minutes (!), and that he has somehow arrived at a small town called Point Pleasant, on the Ohio border. Once there, he and sheriff Connie Mills (as played by Laura Linney, probably the prettiest sheriff in screen history!) endeavor to get to the bottom of a bizarre series of happenings that have been plaguing the town of late. Sightings of a strange winged creature, voices coming out of a sink, warnings of world disasters that, oddly enough, DO come true...and a rather chilling entity that calls itself Indrid Cold all lead Klein to the shocking conviction that the legend of the Mothman may in fact be true. But why has he/it chosen to appear here and now? Based on the 1975 book The Mothman Prophecies by John Keel, the 2002 film is genuinely freaky, with any number of scenes guaranteed to raise goosebumps on the viewer. Among the film's eeriest scenes John speaks to Indrid Cold (an entity who should perhaps marry NYC Eyewitness News weather-gal hottie Amy Freeze!) on the telephone, and Cold manages to answer every question put to it regarding Klein's history; a Pt. Pleasant woman describes the Mothman's appearance at her window; Klein receives another phone call, possibly from his deceased wife. The film's bridge collapse sequence looks frighteningly realistic--don't know how director Mark Pellington managed to bring this disaster across, even WITH modern-day FX--and the performances turned in by the film's two leads are both first rate. The picture also features fine contributions from screen legend Alan Bates, as a professor who has written a book on the Mothman phenomena, and by Will Patton as the Pt. Pleasant citizen who is most directly affected by the Indrid Cold manifestations. Gere, it should be mentioned, really is terrific in the film, expertly displaying the full gamut of emotions, from happy husband to depressed widower, from confused reporter to a stunned believer in the otherworldly. (Not for nothing, but has anybody EVER seen Gere and Pink Floyd's Roger Waters in the same room at the same time? Or perhaps these two were separated at birth...or is it just me?) And he is well matched by Linney here; one of our finest actresses giving another pitch-perfect performance. Though the film apparently changes and condenses much from Keel's book, and, as mentioned, alters the facts surrounding the historic bridge disaster, it yet goes far in making its case that these Mothman beings might just exist (angellike?), watching over us and attempting to communicate. Still, their essential eeriness is hardly glossed over, in this extremely intriguing, beautifully shot and fairly creepy film. Recommended! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Response to Author Enyeez from Denmark*** (Small) Spoiler WARNING! ***- (You were warned)The end scene is really slow and out of reality Scene on a bridge on Christmas Eve, literally LOADS of cars on The poor bridge and John (Gere Character) knows erm.. well.. SOMETHING... I can't really describe it.. it's just , hard for me to see that - THAT many cars could be on The same bridge on Christmas Eve... but NO cars on The roads leading to The bridge. and they're only there Because of a traffic-light Problem there was at least one cop there.. and I bet ALL of them would have liked to come home that night. The cop just wandered helplessly back and forth on The bridge, soo unreal... The Police are Authority Figures.. if a Policeman can't get The cars moving.. no one can..*** End SPOILER ***Except Enyeez that is exactly what did happen in the real bridge collapse in Pt. Pleasant which this movie is based on. There was a traffic light problem which caused traffic to stall on the bridge and ultimately caused the bridge to collapse. The bridge was not made to sustain standing traffic for any amount of time. The bridge was built by safety specs dating back to the modelT which had an average weight of 1500 pounds. Because of the collapse LBJ had a complete revamp of the USA bridge specs brought up to date which accommodated more modern auto weights of between 2000 to 4000 lbs. "},{"Title":"It depends on who's looking?","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies is directed by Mark Pellington and adapted to screenplay by Richard Hatem from the the book of the same name written by John Keel. It stars Richard Gere, Laura Linney, Will Patton, Debra Messing and Lucinda Jenney. Music is scored by tomandandy and cinematography is by Fred Murphy. Plot finds Gere as John Klein, who loses his wife to a brain disorder and finds himself two years later on investigating the mysterious Mothman sightings in small town Americana. It is based around actual events that occurred in 1966/7 in Point Pleasant, West Virginia.Wake up number 37.This film adaptation has many differences to John Keel's book, so even if you are someone who believes in otherworldly stuff? This is not a definitive account of the Keel investigations into the Mothman legend. However, that is in no way a negative for the film, with Pellington personalising the core characters, film unfolds as a compelling, skin itching experience, boosted no end by Gere and Patton's brilliantly restrained and sincere performances. Mood and imagery is everything here, a weirdness gnaws away throughout, with the director showing a knack for simmering under the surface tension. There's a mid section lull, where elongated chatter bogs things down, but once the eerie Indris Cold enters the fray the blood gets chilled and the film lurches towards its surprisingly exciting finale.Believe the themes or not, The Mothman Prophecies is still a well thought out and intriguing movie. 8/10 "},{"Title":"There's a reason I ended up in Point Plesent. Something brought me there!","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Based on the John Keel's sci-fi as well as the late Mr. Keel-A real life Indiana Jones- claimed to be true story novel The Mothman Prophecies the film brings out what shadowy and scary characters these so-called Mothmen really are. Being in another dimension of reality the Mothmen seem to know the future and in trying to prevent future disasters somehow get in contact with humans and try to warn them about them before they happen. It's Washington Post reporter John Klein, Richard Gere, who first comes across this strange phenomena after his wife Mary, Debra Messing, ended up in a car accident and later died in the hospital from a resulting brain tumor. It was Mary who saw this strange moth-like creature in her headlights that caused her to lose control and crash! What obviously this winged creature wanted was to get in touch with Mary's husband John who it had very important information to give him. This information came from the drawing that Mary drew at the hospital that were of strange moth-like creatures while she was under some kind of self imposed hypnosis. The sames ones she saw that cause her of lose control of her car that eventually ended up killing her. It's now two years later after Mary's death and John in driving to Richmond Virginia to interview the states governor makes an unscheduled U-turn and ends up on the other side of the state or across the border in Plesent Point West Virginia! Some 400 miles from where he was heading for!The film starts to get really spooky when John is confronted by Gordon Smallwood, Will Patton ,who swears that he's been trying to break into his and his wife's Denise's, Lucinda Jenney, home for the last three days. The fact that John never saw Gordon in his entire life and just went there once to use his phone when his car broke down made him think that he either was on drugs or had mistaken him or someone else. We soon find out that Gordon like both John and his late wife Mary were somehow contacted by these Mothmen that ended up driving the poor guy off the deep end. It's later when John tracked down in Chicago professor Alex Leek, Alen Bates, who in his writings seemed to have a handle on all this craziness in the Mothmen being able to get in contact with human beings and predict the future. Leeks for his efforts in warning the human race about all this ended up being committed into an insane asylum for 4 years as well as being driven from his top position in the collage that he was teaching in! It's there and and then that John, in what he had experienced, finally realized that all this Mothman revelations wasn't as crazy as they at first seemed to be. Especially after some of the predictions that the Mothmen told Gordon came shockingly true.***SPOILERS*** In the end all the loose ends of what the Mothmen tried to tell both Gordon, who had since frozen to death, and John started to somehow fit together. They were warning John that a major disaster was about to happen outside of Point Plesent at the Silver Bridge on the Ohio River that would end up killing scores of motorists that Christmas Eve! In desperation and with the help of Point Plesent Sheriff Connie Mills, Laura Linney, John works against the clock to keep that disaster,by closing down the bridge, from happening! What was soon to happen is that the Mothman's prediction did in fact come true! With John Connie and everyone else at Point Plesent totally helpless to prevent it!P.S The fact is that there was indeed a major deserter on the Silver Bridge on December 15,not Christmas Eve,1966 where 46 people-not 36 like in the movie-ended up being killed. But there's was no evidence that it was anything out of the ordinary or supernatural like the film tells us in the Mothmen, in predicting that it would happen, having anything to do with it! "}{"Title":"Overall, the film did a very good job of making me scratch my head","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one of those movies I kept passing over and passing over, and I'm not really sure why... although the cover of the movie itself could be one of the reasons. Look at it. It's creepy!This is another horror/suspense movie that did surprise me. It's a contemporary retelling of John Keel's 1975 book of the same name, which itself was based on stories of sightings in Point Pleasant, West Virginia in 1966-67.I think the movie was quite well done. One thing that really struck me was the lack of computer-generated effects in many scenes; instead the clever use of camera effects... many times simply using a heavy blur on a silhouette... were very effective. The sound-scape throughout the movie was very convincing; director Mark Pellington added various sound bytes throughout the movie which only served to deepen the mystery... and creepiness... of the mothman. The acting I felt was very hit-and-miss... some actors did well, others did not, and that division applies to almost all the characters, including leads. The sub-plot based around the relationship of two lead characters was a pleasant surprise... it didn't affect the main storyline very much, at all, and yet played an important part; a very classy move from screenwriter Richard Hatem. Each character was allowed to develop on their own, to play their own parts, without sacrificing storyline in order to force romantic scenes.Overall, the film did a very good job of making me scratch my head, wondering what the heck is going on, who or what is this mothman? are these people sane or crazy? There is also a lot of detail in the movie that begs for re-watching... for example the times on clocks during certain events, odd reflections during normal scenes, barely audible sounds that when reviewed with more volume are quite thrilling.I give it 4 stars ('really liked it on Netflix and 7/10 on IMDb due to some shortcoming in tensity and a bit of poor acting. I believe the atmosphere of the movie could have been used a lot more effectively; it begged to be heavier much of the time. The actual manifestation of the mothman always feels fairly indirect, and so I almost always (with a few exceptions) felt a bit detached in those scenes. "},{"Title":"Merry Mothmas","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yeah, Christmas isn't a huge motif in The Mothman Prophecies, but since it begins and ends on the holiday I suppose there's no better time of year to write a review. I saw The Mothman Prophecies in the theatre and it made an impact. The basic storyline is loosely based on actual events, with a journalist finding himself in West Virginia where townspeople report seeing flying monsters and a mysterious figure named Indrid Cold. They bring prophecies of doom, and they take a personal tone for the protagonist when they seem connected to his dead wife.True, we don't really see the Mothman, which is a relatively well-known cryptid. That may disappoint some of the audience, but The Mothman Prophecies isn't a silly monster movie. It's meant to be a psychological thriller in which a creepy atmosphere is pervasive. There's much mystery and imagination in it. What really got me is the way this movie can open your mind to new possibilities; the Mothman is no flesh and blood creature, it's considered a force of nature compared to an electrical impulse or a microwave. Much of the focus is taken away from the Mothman itself (which would be difficult to depict convincingly) and directed at the prophetic Indrid Cold, but there's little doubt they're manifestations of the same force. This film made me want to believe in the Mothman, though the MonsterQuest episode seems to lean heavily towards the explanation that the cryptid is misidentified owls.The direction of the film is effective in creating the mysterious atmosphere and the writing and acting are solid. The Mothman Prophecies is an altogether good movie that needs more recognition. "},{"Title":"Pretty  creepy, i liked it a lot,  moved slow in the start.","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I really did like this movie.It did move very slow in the start, about a half a hour in i starting wondering where it was going.When i say that it is creepy its creepy in a different way. Its very subtle but there is a underline realness to it.It says that it is based on true events. But i did a little research and even though there are some things that are the same, there are many embellished things that are dramatized.Over all i really liked this movie. Though i could see why some people would not like it. It was up my alley. I would watch it. "},{"Title":"Haunting Mystery with Supernatural Elements -- Reverent, Beautiful, Brilliant","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies is one of those rare films where everything magically 'works' resulting in a magnificent piece of cinematic art.Richard Gere plays John Klein, a journalist for The Washington Post who is trying to come to grips with the sudden death of his wife. He soon finds himself mysteriously translated to the town of Point Pleasant, West Virginia. He develops a relationship with the sympathetic but skeptical local police sergeant, played by Laura Linney. Klein soon discovers that many of the town's residents have sighted an eerie mothman-like entity, similar to the one his wife saw before she died. Deeper investigation causes Klein to have his own creepy encounters with the strange creature; he becomes convinced that the being (or beings) exists on a sphere far beyond humanity's finite comprehension and that it can predict impending calamities. In fact, he comes to realize that this mothman is trying to warn the small town of one. Can he decipher what specifically the tragedy will be and when it will occur? Can he save his life and his loved ones before it's too late?The Mothman Prophecies is not a monster movie or a slasher horror flick; it's a creepy supernatural/mystery story with loads of mood & atmosphere. Every element of this motion picture skillfully works -- acting, story, editing, score, cinematography, locations, effects, etc.Sensitive viewers will note an undeniable reverent, beautiful quality to the film. The ending is strangely touching.One critic claimed that the mysteries presented in the story are not supposed to be figured out and, indeed, CANNOT be figured out. This is completely untrue. One must understand that this film is brilliantly intricate. Many questions are raised with varying possible answers. Don't think for a second that there are no real answers in this film; they're all there, but you may have to watch it a few times to discover them. I appreciate the fact that the director and writer refused to spell everything out for the viewer, even allowing room for complete misinterpretation. If the viewer wants answers s/he must have ears to hear and be willing to work for them.My initial interpretation was that the mothmen are good spiritual beings that are trying to help humankind by predicting great calamities but can be easily misunderstood because they are so far superior to humans. In a nutshell my interpretation was that the mothman brought Gere to Point Pleasant to meet and save the future replacement for his dead wife, who died due to a pre-existing condition that only the mothman knew about. This explanation obviously suggests that the mothmen are good in nature.I've come to see that this interpretation is false; a brilliantly implemented red herring.*** SPOILER ALERT *** Don't read the following paragraphs unless you want to consider insights into the true nature of the mothmen The mothmen are in truth evil spirits, fallen angels or demons (they're synonymous). This is clear when viewing eye-witness drawings of the creatures; these pictures never show beautiful angel-like beings, but rather disturbing, obviously-malevolent winged-creatures.A mothman (evil spirit) CAUSED the auto accident that injured Debra Messing. Would a GOOD angelic being cause such a tragedy (regardless of the fact that she ultimately dies of a pre-existing problem)? The bible calls Satan the prince of the power of the air, hence, his underlings (demons) are spiritual and electro-magnetic in nature. They can thus easily manipulate a traffic light or speak through a phone that's not plugged in. They can even take human form, like the male nurse who insists Debra's drawings are of angels and then mysteriously vanishes, or mimic the voices of dead loved ones.The researcher from Chicago reveals that the mothmen are from hell (the spiritual underworld that underpins the earth) and send out mixed messages to ruin peoples lives. They may seem to be benevolently warning humans but, at the same time, are obvious instigators of human tragedies (the car crash, Gordon's job loss, insanity & ultimate demise and the researcher's loss of his family & a respectable social life, etc.). Also consider the fact that they refuse to reveal their true selves and intentions. They are highly skilled masqueraders.The reclusive researcher also points out that they have been around for a millennia and therefore see things at least 2 or 3 moves ahead of humans; they naturally use this vantage point to manipulate, deceive and destroy.At the end, the saved police woman, number 37 (research that number), is still a victim in that her previous views that the mothmen are evil and destructive could now flip-flop into the deception that the they are somehow agents of good. Of course we never find out if this happens because the tale potently ends with Gere and Linney in shock sitting in an ambulance just glad to be alive.The film powerfully illustrates that humanity is caught in a cosmic war and that there are beings whose sole purpose is to ruin or destroy us. Failure to understand and tactically prepare can be fatal. The only true protection from these evil spiritual beings is reconciliation with God through Jesus Christ's blood shield of atonement (not that the picture ever overtly reveals this, it's simply my addendum).*** END SPOILER ALERT *** Mothman is one of those rare films that you just put on to enjoy the cinematic magic, regardless of whether or not you know the ending or how many times you've seen it; it ranks up there with my all-time favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Evocative, effective sci-fi/thriller","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies claims to be inspired by true events, but when you take into account that this is science fiction, you approach the film excepting a good part of it to be fictionalized. Regardless of how much is accurate and how much is not, what is more important I think is the fact that the movie is entertaining. Not only that, but by the end, you kind of want to believe it. This is interesting material.The material concerns strange happenings in the town of Point Pleasant on the Ohio/West Virginia Border. The citizens of this good Christian community have been haunted for months by unknown forces. Some have heard things, some have seen things, some have even made sketches of that which they have seen. The sketches all portray something non human with black wings. John Klein, a reporter for the Washington Post is in town investigating. He is drawn to this mystery because, he lost his wife a couple years earlier from brain damage, but she left behind a sketch of the black winged figure. While in town, Klein starts to receive strange phone calls, a potential warning of something dangerous to come. Who can he turn to?, how much time does he have?Photography plays a key role in the movie. Director Mark Pellington invests plenty of time into atmosphere. The Mothman Prophecies is dark, which seems appropriate, but it chooses not so much to be a claustrophobic heavy thriller, but rather a more mystique one. The camera is very loose for most of the picture, with a lot of wide shots, most of them up high, some of them featuring a sweeping mobile frame. The movie also plays with camera focus, motion blur, and film grain for artistic and psychological effects. Without looking too stagy, the movie's style works.The Mothman Prophecies also relies on a compelling lead to drive the story. Richard Gene, though not a terrific actor is not a bad one either. He does a pretty good job in the movie, playing the role appropriately, without over doing or under doing it. Backing him up is Laura Linney, who is actually a better actor. Her role is much smaller and gives her less to work with, but she does it with total naturalism. I don't think I can say the same about Will Patton. He himself strikes me as a bit of an over actor, sometimes he is good, sometimes not. In the Mothman Propecies, there are times when he sounds like he is actually struggling to NOT raise his voice or exaggerate his posture.The Mothman Prophecies, is a thriller that requires a viewer's attention. this is not a dumb feature, and it's not a dull one either. I liked it for what it was, there is room for improvement, but it is certainly recommendable. "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Mothman Prophecies has to be one of the creepiest movie I have ever seen. Although I am not a big fan of Richard Gere, this movie kept me glued to the seat. The premise, the music, cinematography, editing and acting are all spot on and serve well in ratcheting the mood of the film.The music, hands down, is one of the creepiest of this decade and is very well done. It borders on minimalism but it works on every level. Kudos to Tomandandy. Performances are first rate and Richard Gere does justice to his role and in the end you do feel his pain. Laura Linny, as always, perfect and Will Patton's entry in the movie will surely knock the wind out of the new-bees. It scared me, although I consider myself a veteran of horror genre.All in all, a great Friday night movie. Enjoy it with your girlfriend and see how she gets spooked next time she picks up the phone . "},{"Title":"An unusual movie...","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't want to delve in to the pros and cons of how perfect the making of the movie was but the concept is very unusual indeed. It is probably to be branded as a horror movie but it stands out from the others of its own genre. However, it is very unrealistic and thus except that it offers entertainment (human beings like being scared), to my understanding this movie is not going to teach you anything unlike the Exorcist which probably is closer to reality than the Mothman Prophecies is. If we do, however, assume that the movie is trying to tell us something, it is difficult to understand whether the message itself is substantial or not. I wonder if this title is going to yield anything but getting the audience scared! "},{"Title":"Best Picture of the year","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It really is a shame that the Oscars mostly ignore horror films. There are a handful of exceptions (Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?, Rosemary's Baby, The Exorcist, Jaws, Silence of the Lambs) but generally they are shunned. Then a movie like The Mothman Prophecies comes along, and you wonder if a film is Oscar-worthy because of its most effective conveyance of its subject matter, its sheer execution, then Mothman should have at least been nominated for Best Picture. It conveys its subject matter (although it deviates greatly from the book) in a dead-on, unforgettable, hallucinatory way. I haven't seen another film that 'feels' like Mothman before or since. There's an absolute marriage of style and content to the film, and it demands that it be seen as its own beast, apart from the source material. There's the feeling of evil being 'within the very celluloid' of the film, a quote which comes from an overtly Catholic review of The Exorcist. Director Mark Pellington (Arlington Road) has created a tale for the ages; a relentlessly creepy look into the lives of a small group of people grappling with the unknown - and increasingly losing their grip on reality. Mothman has entered their lives, and their eyes have thus been opened to a truth about our world which defies explanation and belief. There is no line between reality and speculation in Mothman, and it's extremely disorienting and very, very scary. Richard Gere (American Gigolo, Chicago) gives an understated (and underrated) performance. Laura Linney (Tales of the City) gives a somewhat wooden performance, very controlled, but it works within the context of the film, as her character, the town sheriff, needs to remain rationally distant from the goings-on. Will Patton steals the whole movie, and his performance is so sensitive that you feel every painful nuance of his role. Lucinda Jenney is every inch the actor that Patton is, and their scenes together as beleaguered husband and wife are raw and exciting. Among the reasons that the film is so great is that it doesn't show too much of its 'monster'. It reminds me of Charles B. Pierce's The Legend of Boggy Creek, which, like Mothman, is really a thinking-man's monster movie, one that does not destroy its own mystery with heavy-handed special effects and dodgy, expository dialogue. Mothman raises more questions than it answers, and I think this is another one of its strengths. The atmosphere of the picture is absolutely chilling. Even casual daytime scenes, that are not big set-pieces, have a feeling of menace, and you find yourself looking for Mothman around every blustery corner. Tomandandy's musical score takes the subject matter to a whole other level. The music sounds so organic with the images that it's impossible and pointless to imagine it being any other way. That the film deviates from the book is my only qualm about the production. The book is actually creepier than the film, very different from it and much more detailed. It's a shame that the script couldn't have included more of the book, which involves UFO waves, Men in Black, and poltergeist activity, among other things. But the fact that the film works as well as it does justifies the means; the two stories stand separately. Both are powerful, provocative, chilling, and deserving of wide recognition. "},{"Title":"If you liked The 6th Sense, watch this","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The bewildering chain of events in the Mothman Prophecies kicks off with John Klein, a reporter for the Washington Post, arriving in the town of Point Pleasant in the dead of night. Even though he has been driving for just under an hour and a half, the town is 600 miles off his intended course and he has no recollection of getting there. It is winter and the small town is moody, full of bare forest and bleak, overcast skies. The dark atmosphere only gets darker once Klein starts to meet the locals. I watched this with the lights out and by the middle I almost didn't want to turn them back on, for fear of what I'd see! It's true that the Mothman Prophecies embellishes the true story of the Mothman sightings in Point Pleasant, but I didn't find that to be a problem. By the ending, the film had tackled doppelgangers, Men in Black, UFOs, EVP, premonitions, as well as the elusive Mothman. With this three-ring circus of the paranormal going on, the film could easily have descended into cryptic farce, yet it manages to link the strange events together through Klein's gradual acceptance of his wife's death. Much like John Keel's book, the Mothman Prophecies movie doesn't try to deliver neat explanations for the mysteries of life. Instead, it uses them as a vehicle to tell the highly personal story of Klein's loss.My only criticism is that the film didn't delve deeply enough into the theories about Mothman's existence, so I sometimes felt like they were pushing the entity to the sidelines. It's a minor flaw in an otherwise beautiful and perceptive piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"compelling horror movie with an impressive cast","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Critics have been pretty tough on this film&#151;only 50% on rottentomatoes.com&#151;but I've been very impressed both times I've watched it. My wife, however, was unable to appreciate it, because it's so creepy (and for her depressing). It's not often that a horror movie has such an impressive cast Richard Gere as John Klein, Laura Linney as Connie Mills, Will Patton as Gordon Smallwood, et al. All of the main actors are outstanding. It's not easy to describe the story (based on true events), and maybe that turned off some critics. But for me, it's an extremely compelling story of supernatural events that can't be explained in conventional terms. We are introduced to John Klein, star reporter for the Washington Post, and his wife Mary. They are obviously happy and very much in love. They've just purchased a large, luxurious house. Everything seems to be perfect. Then something strange, and inexplicable happens. Mary is driving back from viewing the home when something appears&#151;to her&#151;out of nowhere. Is it a giant moth? She loses control of the car and suffers brain trauma. Tests reveal a tumor that proves to be fatal. Before she dies, she asks John, Did you see it? He finds sketches she made of a figure that looks like a man with moth wings, or could it be the Devil? Two years later, John is still grieving. Something compels him to drive toward Virginia in the middle of the night. His car breaks down in a small town called Point Pleasant. When he knocks on the door of a nearby house, an apparently deranged man (Gordon) threatens him with a shotgun. Sheriff Connie Mills explains that there have been many strange events recently. She shows him a sketch someone made that's identical to the ones his wife made. John soon discovers that a mysterious entity (Mothman AKA Indrid Cold) is predicting disasters, and is communicating via vague (and scary) messages with Gordon, John, and Connie. These are the prophecies referred to in the title. None of this would work if not for the strong performances mentioned above. I'm not much of a Gere fan, but this is one of his best roles. We can relate to the passionate grief, and lingering love that he feels for the love he lost. This is also the role of a lifetime for Patton, who is introduced as a psychopathic bully but develops into a sensitive, vulnerable soul. And Linney has never been better than she is here, as the sexy cop with a warm heart. The improbable romantic relationship that develops between her and John is handled perfectly, so it doesn't feel forced or contrived. The Mothman Prophecies is one of my favorite movies in this genre. For those who don't require that all the plot threads to be tied neatly together with a bow, this is delightfully scary&#151;and thought-provoking&#151;experience. "}{"Title":"Classy suspenseful horror","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Political journalist John Klein is trying to put the past behind him after the tragic death of his wife in somewhat strange circumstances. He's working on a big scoop that will make his career. While driving to a meeting a politician he is investigating, his car suddenly breaks down in the dead of night. He knocks on the door of the nearest house, where the occupier is none too happy to see him and before Klein knows it he is being held captive at gunpoint. Local cop Connie Mills arrives to calm the situation, Klein is staggered to hear the man's version of the story, that claims that he has called for the third night in a row. Released from his captor, he befriends the cop and is staggered yet again to find that his car is in perfect working order and that he is hundreds of miles off course from his intended destination. Mills regales him with some other strange events that have been occurring in the area, people with strange burns and sightings of a mysterious 8ft tall Mothman. Klein intrigued abandons his political case and stays to investigate further. After my first viewing of this I was amazed to hear it was based on true events, but sure enough it is, there's even an interesting documentary on the DVD that interviews all the real people involved. The film gathers many of the confusing stories and moulds them into a cohesive believable and at times rather terrifying film. Klein's investigations turns up a few possible explanations for the Mothman without ever coming down on the side of any one, Mothman prophecies is a classic conspiracy film except there's no politics involved here, well maybe not? There's also a plot line of Klein's wife turning up and some mysterious phone calls to up the ante in the suspense department. "},{"Title":"Paranormal Activity!","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" From the director of Arlington Road comes another gripping tale of horror, paranormal events and psychic visions that promises to leave the viewers stunned and gasping for more with clever screenplay, exceptional acting and polished execution.The Mothman Prophecies is the story of a reporter John Klein (Richard Gere) whose wife Mary (Debra Messing) dies under mysterious circumstances. In her last days, Mary draws some bizarre pictures of a baffling winged creature. Two years pass and while Klein is driving to meet the governor of Virginia when his car breaks down, he seeks help from a local, Gordon Smallwood (Will Patton) who accuses Klein of stalking him. If that is not inexplicable enough, Klein soon finds that somehow he drove in complete opposite direction and covered 400 miles in 90 minutes to reach Point Pleasant, in West Virginia. He comes across Sergeant Connie Parker (Laura Linney) who tells him that in the past few weeks, the locals have been filing sighting reports of a winged creature. Curiosity gets the better of Klein and he decides to investigate further since the locals' description of the creature matches his wife's drawings. As the story unfolds, he seeks the help of a paranormal expert Alexander Leek (Alan Bates) to ascertain if this creature, 'Mothman,' wants to tell him and the residents something.The movie is based on a book that narrates true paranormal events that rocked Point Pleasant in 1966. The director has taken the facts to spin a chilling tale and you would want to see it again to understand the mechanics of the movie better. The horror/sci-fi fans should watch it for intense performances by Gere and Linney. The movie would not disappoint you either. "},{"Title":"Interesting Thriller","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies (2002, Dir. Mark Pellington) John Klein is involved in a car accident with his wife, but while he is unharmed, his wife mentions a moth shaped creature appearing. After her death, John begins to investigate the secrets behind this mentioned Mothman. It takes him to a small town of Point Pleasant, West Virginia, where he discovers a connection with the same problem. Here he meets Connie Mills, whilst he continues to unravel the mystery of what the Mothman really is.'The Mothman Prophecies' was an interesting film to watch and what made it even more interesting was that it was based on real events. I've never really seen Richard Gere act before, but was impressed with his performance. The story was well written and had its moments. It wasn't the best thriller out there, was at least enjoyable.A great tragedy on the river Ohio. &#150; The Mothman "},{"Title":"Somewhat earie.","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not everybody likes mystery movies but I think that we're all to some degree attracted to the supernatural. The Mothman Prophecies plays the supernatural card well and Pellington gives the film an intensity I've rarely seen in these kinds of films. Everything is a-okay in the sound and visual department, but those who've seen Arlington Road already know that Pellington has got skills.I detracted many points for Gere's wooden acting but the film itself is good. There is good suspense build-up and the story certainly manages to intrigue. A major factor of the intrigue here is probably the fact that it is 'based on true events'.This movie it's not a masterpiece but if the mothman really manages to grab you under his spell and if the movie really gets under your skin, it's thoroughly enjoyable. Which for me explains the fact that the movie has a lot of fanboys, people who love it to death.TMP is certainly one of the best I've seen in it's genre, fans of the genre should put this on their 'mandatory viewing' list. This is how it's supposed to be done, good job Mr. Pellington. "},{"Title":"An excellent supernatural thriller.","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was hugely surprised at this film, I didn't expect much from it but it hugely exceeded expectations.Gere is great as the lead and the supporting cast all set the tone perfectly.The plot moves at a quick and unrelenting pace with lots of creepiness. There are disturbing scenes coming from different viewpoints being piled on top of one another, none of them are individually very creepy but taken as a whole they create a very tense atmosphere.It is unusual for this sort of film that you are never in any doubt of the reality of what is happening you are just left guessing at the why until the very end.The ending is good with our questions being answered as far as they can be. "},{"Title":"A Good Psychological Thriller","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" John Klein (Richard Gere) feels drawn to investigate the mysterious circumstances surrounding his wife's death. He begins to discover the mystery of the Mothman; a supernatural being that terrifies the residents of Point Pleasant (a small town in West Virgina).Based on true events, this thriller is pieced together nicely, and has a splendidly creepy atmosphere throughout, with many skin crawling moments and pshycological thrills. I definitely think that its the 'based on true events' that helps it to get under your skin.Despite the great atmosphere and a strong cast, The Mothman Prophecies still manages to feel somewhat empty by the end, it's by no means a poor film, it just seems to fizzle out and leave too much unanswered.7/10 worth watching and it does make you think "},{"Title":"Surprised","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" First off, I had low expectations on this movie. The trailer had me convinced that this wasn't going to be good. No real attachment to the character. I've read about the Mothman story and was looking if the story got it correct. After watching it, I was very surprised on how good it was. Screw the critics. This movie was filmed very well. The use of color on some scenes, some of the camera work, the story and sound effects were very good. It wasn't cheesy where we would actually see what they look like. But it was like a paranormal cat-and-mouse game with unexplained events that would later explained. A lot of okay eeriness and cool edits. It's a nice thriller or 'scary movie' to rent or even by. So if you've never heard about this movie... GREAT! Then you'll enjoy it more. I find that good movies you've never heard of will be more entertaining for you.Personal note... I loved Dark City(Better that the Matrix) and the Cube. Just other suggestions if you agreed with me. "},{"Title":"One of the eeriest movie's I've had the pleasure of viewing...","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a cut-down modernized Hollywood version of John A. Keel's famous UFO story and what a wonderful and rich role for Gere who should maybe experiment more in movies that deal with the realms of the unknown! Also the director, Mark Pellington, is very good and deserves more projects like this one.A much respected reporter for the 'Washington Post' - John Klein (Richard Gere) is about to have his life turned upside down when his wife dies in an automobile accident that seems to have been caused by a mysterious flying creature which he never did see himself. The plot takes Gere to the Ohio/West Virginia border where he meets with the local residents who all seem to be having their troubles with strange lights, weird phone calls and a bird like creature which they call the Mothman. Klein investigates the mystery at the cost of his own sanity and career.The film is very scary but lacks the pace and fiber that made the John A. Keel's book an awe inspiring read. There are no Men In Black, UFO's, alien impregnated women, phone tapings or a clear resolution to some of the character's fate. In fact only about 10% of the book is actually reproduced in the film. The other 90% seems to have been plucked from an episode of the 'X-files'... but what a good episode it is! This is a film that has high production values. The lighting, camera-work, sound and editing are always on top form which is something that prevents the movie from disappearing into the ranks of science fiction B-movie hokum. 'The Mothman Prophecies' looks simply 'weirdly' gorgeous.There is not enough Mothman revealed to the viewer but country folk Gordon Smallwood (the well cast and superbly acted Will Patton) creates a much needed conduit into the effects that the Mothman has on the people of Point Pleasant and this is what the film is really all about - The consequences that the supernatural can have on the psyche of a small backward town's population. Although the ending is Mothman free it certainly does jolt the emotions and evokes a sort of belittling sympathy for the human beings of this planet.Watch this film and then go read the book for a much better look at really went on. All in all, the film is a spine-chilling riveting stuff and well worth repeated viewing even though it never truly escapes its 'X-Files' feeling. "},{"Title":"Thrilling tale","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is about people in a town having strange visions. Richard Gere got caught in the turmoil and hence investigated.I did not know that the film was based on actual events. When I watched the film, I did feel that I was kept wanting to know more. The suspense was well made, but I must say that there were too many of those pure tone noises to create suspense. This made my ears sore after a while of watching the film.The final ending scenes were well made. I really felt the magnitude of the disaster, and the helplessness of the people in the tragedy, especially Richard Gere's character. "},{"Title":"Slow Beginning & Poorly Developed Mothman Character","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" First the easy part. The movie got off to too slow of a start. Always the kiss of death. But, you know I have no clever fix for that except tighten the hell out of the first sequence & maybe use the gained time to fix flaw #2 the poor character development of Mothman. For the monster in a basically monster movie (especially a rather intellectual, spiritual & mysteriously motivated monster) his character development is sadly neglected. The only credit for Mothman is his voice, the director Mark Pellington, who had a speaking role only & a bit part as the bartender. Big, Big, Big mistake.'The Creature From The Black Lagoon', had a real person (2 of them)in a rubber suit & they brought a special something that a special effects monster could never match. Same with the original version of 'The Thing'. This is a special effects only monster (done with voice-over) & it shows. 'Hello it's long distance calling & guess what it's me the monster again.' If they only had enough sense to put a decent actor in a Mothman suit & run with it they could have developed as chilling a monster as Hannibal the Cannibal in 'Silence of the Lambs'. But no, they had to squander the whole special effects budget on the bridge collapse. I read in the trivia about several times we are allowed to glimpse the Mothman but you know half of those were too short & poorly inserted/shot to read visually & I missed most of them. Overall the movie is not bad but not really good either. Not as good as it could have been.I'm going to have to read the book. I have seen the Mothman in other tales of the unknown, usually under Alien Animals, he's something of a standard article. The time & space juggling stuff could have been handled better; this is what leads to the complaints of the movie being confusing. They are a variation on the flashback & flashforward idea & those techniques are always risky business at best.I have one little nugget to share about the hints that the monster is somehow above & beyond our ken. There is a book called 'Flatland A Romance of Many Dimensions' by the mathematician, Edwin A. Abbot. But what has this to do with Mothman? And well you might ask. Well, in a nutshell the book is about what happens when a being that lives in a higher dimension than you & me attempts to communicate with us. What the deal would be is that Mothman lives fully in the fourth dimension (time) whereas we live fully in only the three familiar dimensions & only get a distorted & imperfect view of the fourth. The book is not at all stodgy or intimidating. It's also short & cheap. I highly recommend it.One final thought. I think Mothman would be an outsider among his own kind. Somehow driven to observe & interfere/help in our existence while the rest of his kind could really give a damn. Maybe it's his hobby. "}{"Title":"A Bit Slow-Moving, Eerie Take On The Mothman Phenomena.","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman is a legend that has become famous all around the world, and it's most prominent sightings rest in Point Pleasant, West Virginia, where the strange entity terrorized the town, leaving clues and predictions of future events.The Mothman Prophecies is basically about John Klein, a man who finds himself gripped in a mystery behind a mysterious creature haunting the town. After he and his wife have an encounter with it late one December evening, he finds himself living in terror. Someone or something starts making odd phone calls and predicting future events. John teams up with Connie Mills, a local cop, and tries to discover who the mothman is and what it wants.Mothman Prophecies is supposedly based on the true events that took place in the 1960's in West Virginia, that ultimately led to the collapse of the Silver Bridge. After the bridge's collapse, the mothman sightings subsided, but the town still lives in fear of it. This film is a pretty good adaptation to the phenomenon, although it was a bit boring at times. I find the whole story of the events that took place very mysterious, it's really creepy stuff if you research a bit into it.Like the Bell Witch, and the Jersey Devil legends, the Mothman Prophecies is an account of a series of strange and bizarre historical events, and this film does a good job at portraying it and keeping it full of suspense. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Totally re-watchable, wonderfully eerie","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a seriously underrated film. It gets you over and over not by what it throws at you (like many Hollywood scream-out-loud slasher flicks or what-have-you) but by a creation of MOOD.The soundtrack is eerie, the lighting is always dim and gray, and we hear a lot of stories but we don't see very much for ourselves. We aren't sure what happened or why, so we leave the film with that same unsettled feeling. In that way we are also invited to watch it again to try to make more sense out of it.This is a totally successful supernatural thriller that deserves to be watched and watched again. "},{"Title":"Can't explain it, but can't walk away...","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Gere is a reporter for the Washington Post that stumbles upon some unexplainable events happening in a West Virginia town that he does not even know how he got there.After his wife, Messing, dies from a rare disease found after a car accident, Gere stumbles around and we pick him up two years later, when he spends a restless night in his suburban DC home and hits the road for Richmond for an appointment the next day.  But, for some unknown reason, he finds himself in Pleasant Point, WV, where the only thing he finds pleasant (or understandable) is the name of the town.This movie reminds me of the Bruce Willis blockbuster, Unbreakable.  I really don't like these kind of films, but I am a Richard Gere fan and, after a year of debating whether to rent it on DVD or not, I stumble upon it on cable and record it for viewing in the future.  It took me a month and a half to actually sit down and watch it, but, once I did, I could not stop it.  Gere's need-to-know character is a part of all of us we need to know what's going on.  The unknown is what drives this movie, not Gere (or his character).  It's not so much what is happening as the question as to WHY this is happening that makes the movie.  Mankind's need to explain the unexplainable is what has put these kinds of films on the map.  I enjoyed this movie, even though I don't enjoy the typical ghost story movies like this.  I felt it was the best two hours I've put into watching a movie in a long time (even if Halloween is later this week). "},{"Title":"Good story doesn't make the transition to screen.","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those times when reality is much more interesting than art.  Based on a true incident back in the sixties where the residents of Point Pleasant, WV, experienced a strange apparition that preceded a bridge collapse, The Mothman Prophecies tends to fall flat as a suspense thriller.The screenplay is weak and does little to build suspense.  Key scenes just lay there in front of your eyes with little excitement.  The characters in the movie don't connect with one another very well.Another problem is the choice of Richard Gere as the lead character, a newspaper reporter mysteriously transported to Point Pleasant during an evening drive from Washington to Richmond.  In order for the viewer to connect and experience the terror and anxiety the person on the screen is supposedly feeling, they have to relate to that character.  You want to say, hey, this is happening to me.Richard Gere is too urbane and detached an actor to play this type of role.  The X Files works because David Duchovny is more a regular guy, an everyman.  Richard Gere is a fine actor but he's Hollywood thru and thru.Will Patton is the only one who provides a window into what the people of Point Pleasant must have been experiencing back then.  You can see the fear in his eyes and you watch him mentally disintegrate under the stress.Not a terrible movie, but it made me want to read the real story of what happened.  I'm sure I can imagine a better portrayal of events than the director of this film did. "},{"Title":"Offended by portrayal of Point Pleasant residents as inbred paranoiacs!","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was born and raised in Point Pleasant, WV, and while it is true that there are some crazy sterotypical people there, most of us are not toothless inbreds.  The movie went so far from the original story that it is not even the same.  The mothman story is actually a really really scary one, if you ever talk to anyone who actually saw or encountered the creature.  The chapstick thing was laughable and obviously thrown in for drama.  If you think that the mothman is interesting I recommend that you read The Mothman Prophecies by john keel.  There is also a book which is a compilation of articles and interviews written by two point pleasant residents.  I personally know some folks who claim to have seen the mothman and some of them were prominent, affluent businessmen and -women, well respected and not crazy.  I was very disappointed in this movie, but maybe it's because I'm a little too close to the story. "},{"Title":"Not much like the book","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The book might not be widely available outside West Virginia, but it is an interesting read.  Good enough for me to ask for a copy after reading the first page of my brother's...when I was 13.Living in London now, it took a while before I was able to see it.  I thought that in general it was well done.  At points, I was wondering if watching it alone at midnight was wise (much scarier than more hyped up films like Blair Witch), but found it thoroughly enjoyable even if it didn't seem much like the book.In short, it is meant to be based on true events, but as is frequently the way with Hollywood, fact is rarely as financially rewarding as fiction.  "},{"Title":"Underrated brilliance .........","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the creepiest  films I have ever seen !!This is unbelievably based on a true story which makes the movie even more interesting.The story is about a man who's wife is killed after she had a brain tumour.Before this she was involved in a car accident.2 years later he ends up in a small town called point pleasant.In this town there is sightings of a strange creature.This creature seems to predict disasters like Earthquakes and Plane Crashes.I won't say anymore than thatThis is a brilliant movie8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Thoughtful and low key supernatural movie","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies claims to be based on true events ,which took place in rural West Virginia in the late 1940's .The movie keeps the location but updates the time period to the present day. Richard Gere plays a  Washington Post political journalist and TV pundit whose life is shattered by the death of his wife in an automobile accident.Before she dies she fills pages of a sketch book with pictures of what she claims she saw prior to the crash-a mothlike alien creature that caused her to swerve off the road. Two years late Gere is driving through West Virginia when his car simply stops without obvious cause.He finds himself the object of suspicion in the community that has been the centre of what appear to be a case of  alien visitation , in particular by  the Mothman whose predictions of impending disaster have come uncannily true We never get more than an oblique glimpse of the creature and the mood of the movie is atmospheric and tense rather than full on confrontational or gory Gradually we come to accept the sincerity of the community and the reality of the visitations and it build to a special effects driven climax when we witness the coming true of one ominous prophecy The acting is restrained but effective and the major bone of contention for me with the movie was its ponderous and arty direction.The director seemed to want a European art movie feel to proceedings and this vitiated against the energy levels and panache that would have given the movie more impetus and impactThoughtful and polished though it was I wanted a bit more energy in delivery than it delivered .Repays watching  "},{"Title":"Worth the Effort?","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Did I enjoy it? Yes. Does it stand up to close scrutiny? Probably not. This is one of those movies that, like 'The Sixth Sense', you wished you had been able to watch more carefully and with greater understanding so that you could spot the clues and work it out just before all is revealed. Of course, there are always plenty of smart alecs who claim always to 'get it' at the first clue, or others who linger over plot holes that they claim undermine the film's credibility, and certainly, 'Mothman Prophecies' does not have a twist that can't be guessed, and it does have chasms in the storyline. Yet I was kept watching by the simple device of wanting to know what was going to happen in the end. Now I know, I want to check whether there were sufficient visual clues to have been able to get there before Richard Gere does. There were plenty...so many variations on wing shapes, reflections, criss-cross patterns and coloured lights, that, given a five minute break before the denouement, I think that it could be done...did any other reader guess the exact nature of the climax?The film's tagline, and the director's persistent visual style (intriguing or just plain irritating?) invites the viewer to make sense of the blurred pictures, like the famous blotch tests used in psychology (is it an old woman or a can-can dancer, an urn or two faces nose-to-nose?). The trouble is, if you don't play the game to begin with, you're unlikely to want to play afterwards. 'The Mothman Prophecies' has just enough to keep you going once, but no more. Whether you get to the end may well depend on how much you like Richard Gere, Twilight Zone (there long before The X Files) mysteries, and can 'stop the show' (hardly a William Castle fright break needed here!) to check what you've got, a luxury available on video/DVD but not to those who may have been disappointed in the cinema. Give it a try, just for the puzzle. "},{"Title":"nicely creepy","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I love a good scare, when it's not accompanied by gratuitous gore.  This fit the bill nicely.  I look at it as fiction, despite the notice that it's based on true events, and it was an enjoyable fictional movie. Very, very creepy. "}{"Title":"Fairly decent effort, better than most","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Put simply it's a pretty weak subject which doesn't *really* merit this movie. But if you ignore that fact and switch your intelligence off you may quite enjoy it. The subject is based on apparent truth focusing on the 'mothman' myth, which, of course, we've all heard of (!) However, I kinda forgot it was fact and started enjoying it as fiction like an X-Files episode, albeit made with a bit more Hollywood zest. I thought Gere was reasonable as Klein but he definitely lacks charisma. On a side note, it was an interesting movie choice for him. Very far away from his usual genre. As for the actual story, the way it is told it is clearly intended to have a psychological edge in a way the X-Files totally lacks. And in places it works quite well. But sometimes it seems contrived, and although there are a lot of things that are never explained (This is truth after all) it doesn't take away from the fact this is frustrating in a movie. There are also certain fundamental flaws in certain aspects, one of which had me staring in disbelief... Overall, I would wait to see this on rental as it doesn't really feel like good value for money, but *did* (In my opinion) do its job of entertaining.Just don't expect too much.  "},{"Title":"A great (true?) ''supernatural'' thriller","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The mothman Prophecies was a very intense film, I went to see for free after I watched ice age in the cinema I always go sneak in another room to see so more, in this case mothman prophecies.Richard gere is on my wordt actors list too (except for primal fear and red corner) But i was completely blown away I expected a dumn blair witch rip-off but this was really scary.From the beginning till the end i was completely absorbed by the constant tension and the way the mothman legend came to be. There were questions, yes, but they didnt specifically needed answers.when the film was over I walked completely stunned out of the theater. When it was released on VHS i immediately bought it and  watched it again on the wide screen at home. And i have to admit, this second time it didn't grap as much as the first. maybe beacause i knew most of the things which were gonnan happen or maybe because it just aint the same when youre not in a theater....Anyway, in my opinion this a very good movie for fans of the genre. and good for everyone who has an open mind to things out of the ordinary.Gere acting didn't bother me for a second in fact it was good. and mark pellington's directing capacities kept the story going at a good pace, never too slow. The sometimes loud and scary music/sound effect contribute too for that part. "},{"Title":"Scary enough for me.","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Strong sense of an old friend. Mystery and frightfulness is the main line while sorrow make it more understandable and real. A successful reporter (Gere) looses his wife after a strange car accident. Two ears after the horrible incident, Klein (Gere) is on his way from Washington DC to Richmond on a assignment. Suddenly after driving for about one and an half hours, the engine stops and the car will not start. The mystery begins. Short after couple of mind-stretching events Klein finds out that he has arrived to a town called Point Pleasant, West Virginia. 400 miles away from DC... This movie was a vary positive surprise to me, although a little bit to slow sometimes. Anyway a must see for all thriller and mystery lovers out there. "},{"Title":"Plausible fright, no car chase, romance is not all hokied-up.","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I felt this film had an uncommon sincerity in its presentation.  Watching alone in a dark room was fun, but no push-over.I always hope to find suspenseful mysteries where the credibility does not seem painfully strained and Hollywood schmaltz has been minimized. In my opinion this film delivered on that hope and with a respectable impact. "},{"Title":"Profesionally made supernatural chiller","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is actually a pretty good supernatural thriller. The problem I had with it, is that I didn't know the legend and mythology behind the Mothman before I watched the movie. As a result, I was left hoping that this wasn't just a Sixth Sense/Hellraiser Inferno/Jacob's Ladder/Soul Survivors ripoff.I mean, that really bugged me and stopped me from enjoying the movie, at least the first time around. The idea that they could simply cop out with it's all a dream, really held me back from getting into it. It worked for The Sixth Sense, but it's been ripped off too many times afterwards, by people without the creativity to build a good movie around it (Soul Survivors, for instance, but also the direct to video Hellraiser Inferno, which is the *fourth* Hellraiser sequel).Fortunately enough, this isn't the case and the story that stands on it's own and is true to it's own mythology. Because of it, this is a pretty good horror movie.Richard Gere, Debra Messing and Laura Linney are good good in their roles. There is a somber atmosphere that pervades the entire movie. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"Completely underrated.","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This must have been one of the best visually stunning movies of 2002.  At first I refused to watch this movie since Richard Gere was on my &#145;worst actor' list.  However, after reading some reviews on the movie I ended up renting this movie with a friend.  This movie had one of the neatest opening sequences I've ever seen just as great as Fight Club, X-Men, etc.. Once the story began to take its course I was already hocked on the movie and couldn't wait to find out the conclusion. Overall this movie is a 9/10 and I would highly recommend it to movie addicts and others who appreciate cinema because the cinematography is just amazing. Like I said `completely underrated.' "},{"Title":"A very well made movie","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Richard Gere acts so splendid that you forget that it's him playing the role. The technical aspects of this movie are so well made that it's worth watching the movie just for camera angles, scene cuts and fade-overs. The plot itself forms up slowly making the user bound in the seat until the bitter end. It's good that the makers of this movie don't try to explain the Mothman phenomenon but some of the explanations can seem a bit cheesy. "},{"Title":"Above-average thriller with a great look","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  For a mainstream Hollywood thriller, Mothman Prophecies is better than most (certainly several notches above the overrated -- and, unfortunately, far more successful -- The Ring). On the plus side is a creepy, intriguing premise; creative and atmospheric direction, cinematography and score; and a great cast that includes the always-wonderful Laura Linney and Will Patton and a surprisingly effective Richard Gere. On the down side is a plot that throws in far too many disparate elements to get the viewer truly involved -- the Alan Bates subplot doesn't really do anything but slow the film down. Yet I can't really see how people think this film is boring. There's always a lot (at times too much) going on, with great production set pieces that include a dynamite collapsing-bridge scene that was excellently done. "},{"Title":"Chills you into creeps","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES A new psychological thriller with Richard Gere in the main role as John Klein. The movie is both creepy and highly dramatic and that keeps this mystery movie going very good. It isn't a all threw horror movie but with thrilling mood, nice filming, okay music and fine dialog this movie scores good points. The movie is based on true events and that makes it even more interesting and fascinating from the start off. How do you look like? It depends who is looking The movie holds all the way a red line and that is very nice in such a outsider movie as this. Gere shows that he stills nows how to act and with great stuff.  STARS *** 3/5 "},{"Title":"Scary But Lacking","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the only scary films that didn't make me want to go to bed. Sure, it's scary while you watch it, but it lacks that after-haunt I was looking for.WARNING SPOILERSGenerally, the story goes like this After buying a new house, Mary Klien (forgot the actress) hits the Mothman (one of the two only appearances). She dies of a brain tumor and Richard Gere is left alone. 2Years later he somehow ends up in Point Pleasant where he hears of stories about a Mothman. Eventually he throws away his finds after apparently going mad. He then leaves because his dead wife is supposed to ring him at home. The Silver bridge falls, Klien saves his girl-friend, the end.If this review sounds dull, don't blame me. We only hear one witness telling us of the actual Mothman, and the only scary parts are when Klien is on his phone with Indrid Cold. Dull story, but if you're looking for a quick shock, then this is for you.     "}{"Title":"Behind the scary atmosphere, its about going on after suffering a tremendous loss","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really like the film.  Great atmosphere.  And while I really liked the X-files, this was classier.  Moreover,  I thought that it transcended the horror genre at the end.SPOILERS----By not picking up the phone when his wife called and instead going on to Point Pleasant, the Richard Gere character was choosing to live in this world and accept the fact that his wife was dead and it was time to move on.By doing this, he was able to save the life of the heroine and thus fulfil the prophecy (she was the 37th of 36 dead) "},{"Title":"Things you should know about this Movie!","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First, I would recommend that people study up on the Mothman to understand the legend. The movie is more about Point Pleasant and the collapse of the Silver Bridge (which actually happened in 1967)...I loved the movie, especially how they updated it to a modern theme. Today (May 22) we drove to Point Pleasant expecting to see many of the scenes from the movie, only to find out that that movie was actually filmed in 2 different locations. We did get to meet some of the towns folk and get their perspective on the actual events of 1967...very interesting to hear some of the stories..we did visit the place where the Silver Bridge once stood and actually drove to the Ohio side on the sister bridge of the Silver Bridge....I would like to find out exactly what locations where used for this film. I do know that some of it was actually filmed in Point Pleasant, 6th street and Main....if anybody has info as to other locations of the shoot, please email me...one other thing, in the movie, the chemical actually exists, however, the actual plant is a power plant on the Ohio side of the river....Great movie, I highly recommend it and if you live close enough, give Point Pleasant a visit, very friendly town....Oh, one more thing..the jeep that the police officer drove in the movie actualy exists and is still in use today by the Point Pleasant Police Department....also, give the visitor center a visit as well....any comments and additional info from somebody who lives in the area would be appreciated..One more thing..we never concluded if the Avalon Motel actually existed..does anybody know? "},{"Title":"Missing X-Files Episode?","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've never been a fan of Richard Gere as an actor, but I must admit that he did a good job in An Officer and a Gentleman as well as in Chicago.I really didn't know anything about The Mothman Prophesies, and I thought it would suck...but it didn't.  The best way for me to explain the movie, is that it could just as well been an episode of the X-Files show, and an OK episode at that. It's just in the same genre, has the same atmosphere and is just as silly (hollywood) when it comes to it's conclusions. I don't agree with those who compare this movie with Dragonfly starring Kevin Costner, they are not alike at all... The Mothman Prophesies is backed up by an OK cast, OK directing, OK (yet dark) photagraphy and sub average plot. All in all, this movie deserves a little bit more than an average score, mainly because this movie isn't about being original, it isn't about special effects or great characters. All it is about is an old myth many believe to be true, and to this extent it does its job well... "},{"Title":"Very atmospheric","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is easily one of the most atmospheric movies I have seen for a good while. It's not tense necessarily, just weird. You just feel that something's not right. I remember thinking after I saw it in the cinema that it was an eerily quiet film.The combined use of a terrific musical score by Tomandandy (even just over the opening credits) and some amazing cinematography help to create this atmosphere. Some of the shots are just fantastic (the camera inverting as it passes the telegraph pole in the field, the zoom into the picture of Mary, the use of filters in flashback, etc). This is one of the best looking films around without a doubt.The film is also strong story-wise. It's extremely intriguing and the parts are very well-acted. The only downside is that I think the story goes a bit off-the-rails for a while when Klein leaves Point Pleasant to visit Leek. It doesn't last too long though. I can see why some people might think it was boring, but I didn't personally. This is one of those movies that requires your undivided attention if you are to get anything out of it.2 scenes are particularly memorable- Gordon's encounter with Indrid Cold at the chemical plant (great tension) and the telephone conversation between Klein and Cold. One of the strong points of the film is that the Mothman isn't shown. Its appearance is revealed fleetingly and all we have to go on is eyewitness reports and the drawings (which look pretty cool)I enjoyed this film and I believe anyone who appreciates a good story and a good atmosphere will too.        "},{"Title":"So-so","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was... okay.  It started out okay, and I liked the music and the interesting camera angles, but then they started using way too many effects.  They were always slowing something down, or speeding it up, or rushing towards or away from something, among many other things.  It seemed like they couldn't just let a scene be; they had to fancy it up somehow.  This was really distracting.  The end fight in Young Guns is another situation where slow motion really took away from the movie.  Also, while there were some spooky moments, the ending was soooooo anti-climatic, and it hardly had anything to do with the Mothman.  I was left feeling like there was no real point to the movie.  I did enjoy Will Patton's character a lot, though.   "},{"Title":"What do you see... a great film.","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film was brilliant, it didn't rely on gory scenes to scare you, the mere fact that they kept the mothman so illusive made the film even more terrifying, with good performances from Gere, Will Patton and Laura Linney this film gives credit to the original book. The phone scene when he is talking to Indrid Cold is brilliant. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Plot not to believable but well acted.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just why the prophecies were given to certain people was never explained. We never found out where the mothman came from or why.  The actors did a good job and were believable. So that helped the plot.Near the end a bridge falls apart and what a great scene it was. The movie might just be remembered for that scene alone.  "},{"Title":"Unusual and compelling","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies, based upon John A. Keel's nonfiction account of strange incidents said to have taken place in the small town of Point Pleasant, West Virginia, is everything The Ring should have been.  While that over-hyped film drew in loads of cash and an immediate cult following, Mothman, with its pervasive claustrophobia and unsettling atmosphere, went largely unnoticed.  The cinematography, direction and musical score are so unique and utterly bizarre you're inclined to forgive the occasional bit of contrived dialogue.  The film makes no attempt to explain the phenomena with which its characters are inflicted, opting instead to provide a far more effective reconciliation on a personal level.  The Mothman Prophecies expertly dodges those clumsy mistakes that have cheapened many a recent horror film.  Very unusual, consistently eerie, far from predictable, and one of the few films of 2002 I bothered to add to my DVD library.8/10 "},{"Title":"I was very intrigued with the subject content.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film roped me in by stating it was based on fact. The story at first was a bit hard to follow, I thought. Before watching this film I had never heard of the Mothman phenomenon. The depiction of the story in some parts of the film were eerie and strange, to the point where certain aspects weren't explained. I suppose the director wanted the audience to make up their own minds about the reality of it all. I didn't mind watching this film, but I wouldn't watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Creepy but generally weak","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  before viewing this movie i had an idea that this had potential to be really creepy and for the first hour it didn't disapoint. the thing that made the first hour good was the sense that the film gave of trying to confuse the audience and freak them out. At times this worked well but it was hard not to notice how the film tended to drag this gimmick on and on, so eventually i just got bored with this little gimmick.The acting is good all round especially from the supporting cast who completely outshine the two leads in every way. Will Patton for instance is excellant as the man who talks to the mothman. Laura Linney is fine but the let down here is Richard Gere who i found very unconvincing is this sort of film but at times he showed some strenghs but very briefly.The ending is a super letdown and extremly ridicoulous which just turned the whole film into a run of the mill horror story.But the real star is Mark Pellington who gives us a really creepy view into this film. The good thing is the way he keeps the mothman out of our sights by blurring our vision and distorting the colours so it gives the film a real sense of creepyness. Hopefully in the future he will have better scripts to work with.Overall a disappointing film but with some decent moments and some decent acting. A forgetful film good for a one night viewing. "}{"Title":"Interesting movie but very slow!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie was going to be a little more fast paced then this but it sure wasn't but since it was based on a true story i thought i would give this a shot....Richard Gere character was pretty darn boring in this movie...i thought Laura Linney's character was a little more interesting then his but not much...It also had Will Patton in it from The Postman and Armaggedon....anyways so the story goes where Richard Gere's wife is killed in a car accident and weird things start to happen to Gere....... Gere then starts to head to West Virginia and then ends up in a small town called Point Pleasent.....the ending with the bridge collapsing was ok but that part was kinda trippy because you would think that those people in the cars would have tried to get out of there vechicles alot faster than what they did when the bridge was oviously collapsing.....I wouldn't say that this is a great movie but it kept me interested to see what would happen but then of course the movie ended up not knowing all the facts behind it....I give this movie 2 and a half stars **1/2 "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could have been better (possible spoilers)","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I recently watched this movie and I think that this could have been a much better movie, but it isn't disappointing either. The reason is not the story (which I think is really interesting) but the editing, which makes the movie sometimes really slow and it makes it appear more like a long-time-running TV series' episode than a movie based in real facts. And that plays against it, because of this problem it's not as half as gripping as some similar movies like The Others or Sixth Sense which catch you from the start and don't let you stand up even for going to the bathroom till the end, a situation that unfortunately doesn't happen in this movie (except for some scenes, which I won't tell you here). That goes for the bad points. In the positive side we have a good story and good perfomances from Gere and Linney, but I specially liked Will Patton's acting as Gordon Smallwood, to the point where I can say that he built the best scenes of the movie, and some of them really spooky (the only frightening moments all-around, though). So, my final opinion is this is not a bad paranormal movie, with an interesting theme that unfortunately wasn't exploited the proper way. Still, I would recommend it for Richard Gere's fans and for those who like the movies based in real facts. Mark 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Really creepy, and well acted.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie grabbed my wife and I and sucked us in immediately. I thought from the buzz surrounding the theatrical release that it was probably hokey. On the recommendation of a friend, we rented the DVD. This is an incredibly atmospheric, genuinely chilling and thought-provoking movie. The acting is top rate. But it's the direction that really makes this movie. Very creative use of music, sound and photography. More eerie than drop dead scary. Super ending. "},{"Title":"The Dream Quest of Unknown Kadath...","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ...being the title of an HP Lovecraft/August Dereleth book, seems to describe the  film quite well a story of an unfathomable tragedy and mystery. Mark Pennington did the right thing by keeping the motivations of the entityabsolutely unclear-perhaps they were unknowable and UNEXPLAINABLE.Those who want a movie to lead you by the hand with a detailed explanation,with a tidied up happy ending, go watch TeeVee. I watched SIGNS in the same week as this. SIGNS was so utterly forgettable,cliched and ridiculous that ive already nearly forgotten it...TeeVee style filmaking   transposed onto the big screen. The first time I saw TMP, i thought it  an OK, if not *slightly* overly stylized ...what-Horror film? No. Docu-Horro-Sci-Fi...no... Cut out about 10% of the MTV tricks and the film would have been perfect-  My second viewing of the film made me realize that Pennington made a strongattempt at telling a well-written, mature, non-cliched LOVE STORY. No. Makethat a LOSS STORY, of which the unexplained was a strong backdrop, and notjust the main theme.  As the film is viewed again one begins to see and to feel, thanks to the excellent  score by Tomandandy, the sense of grief and pain that Klein holds inside. Gere  underplays this, so it is hard to see his anguish until he breaks down and gives  up on his search for meaning-as he looks tearfully at his wife's photo one final  time... The music score signals you from the studio logo onwards, the fact that you are  entering an eerie, uncharted universe, one with no pat, coy explanations or easy  answers. I am amazed that TMP turned out as well as it did. Adult Horror. The feeling of sadness, dread, mystery and tragedy grow until the finalcrescendo of the collapsing bridge.  The character of the Sheriff was played to perfection. Here was a woman whogrew up around these simple people and their rising unease, and she did not let  it get the best of her. And she emanated such pure love, both for the peoplearound her, AND Klein, that she literally shone.  My only gripe was the 'you could see it coming'-Wake up # 37 ending, with the sudden !OMINOUS MUSIC! cue. I would have had her withdraw andreflect, tears welling up in her eyes as an echoing voice in her head made it  dawn on her that she was the fortunate one referred to in her own dream.    "},{"Title":"A good horror movie in search of a third act","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A little while ago, I wrote a comment about the amazingatmospheric horror of Japanese filmmaker Kiyoshi Kurosawa.  Infilms such as Cure and Pulse, ordinary people are confrontedwith enigmatic, strange, and usually deadly forces beyond theircontrol.  To Kurosawa's credit, these strange events are never fullyexplained, keeping the audience unsettled and in suspense.In The Mothman Prophecies, a similar effect is achieved, andlargely upheld throughout the film.  In the tradition of The Exorcist,The Shining and other good examples of atmospheric horror,strange events are parlayed and witnessed by a helplessprotagonist (played listlessly by Richard Gere).  The buildup oftension and the unexplained is intense, and the filmmakers do agood job of keeping you on the edge of your seat.However, like Richard Gere's character, we too wish to find out thesecret behind the enigma.  In films like The Exorcist and evenKurosawa's Cure, the nature of the beast, or supernaturalmenace, is subtly explained through either exposition, or a fewpivotal scenes.  Unfortunately, this is where Mothman fails todeliver.There is a need, or a desire to learn more.  However, in the film'sthird act (or lack thereof), a good chance to sum up events, or atleast bring some narrative closure to the proceedings, is avoided. Instead, the filmmakers opt for a lavish disaster scene straight outof a Hollywood disaster movie, and top it up with a Hollywoodending.  Not only is this completely out of place, but, as Imentioned, it skirts the real issues at hand.  Who is the Mothmanor Mothmen?  Is there a greater significance to their existance?We will never know.  Personally, I didn't care after the end creditsbegan to roll - I felt cheated out of a decent third act.Still, as a curiosity piece, The Mothman does have its moments. Watch for a scene in which Gere shuts a mirrored closet - for asplit second, an ominous red face appears in the reflection (muchlike the face in The Exorcist).  For me, this singular moment ofgood atmospheric horror made the trip almost worthwhile. Almost. "},{"Title":"Perfect Suspense","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Being based on true events, The Mothman Prophecies scares a lot. I kept myself asking if it was really based on a true story. Some parts are so scary and fantastic, that I doubt it is. Actually, the scare factor rises along the movie, that you can't think of anything else, but find out who the Mothman really is. The ending is gives a great deal of comfort, so you can go to sleep after watching it. But for some moments, I thought I couldn't. Great story, terrific suspense from the very first minute until the last. I hope that I won't see the Mothman myself. Ever. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Dreary","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Despite the melodrama and over acting, the abundance of visual and audio gimmicks and the fact that it tries way too hard, this movie still manages to remain dull and dreary. It's like a bad episode of the X-Files. Frankly, I've seen scarier episodes of Will & Grace. "},{"Title":"Use Your Imagination.","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As a very critical film watcher, I tend to be very sparing with my praise. What thrills the average Jane doesn't normally do it for me, and I have a habit of being overly critical.  That said, The Mothman Prophecies was the absolute most frightening experience I have ever had.  Keep your Blair Witch, keep all of your M. Night Shyamalan films; this is it.I like the new trend of not emphasizing the creature or the monster and letting folks use their own imaginations - in fact, one of the reasons I didn't give Signs a higher score is that they DID have a confrontation with the alien.  Although there are glimpses of the something everyone refers to in The Mothman Prophecies, there certainly isn't undue focus placed on it.  Therefore, instead of dwelling on the sight of it, you're free to react along with Richard Gere's John Klein when he double-takes the time on his watch.  Imagination is the key to this film, and if you have an open mind and a very relaxing atmosphere to watch it in, you may very well find yourself holding your hand over your mouth tightly for fear of releasing the gorge that has risen at the back of your throat.Whether or not the film stayed true to the actual events that occurred matters little.  Although a selling point for many may be that this was in fact a true story, even at complete fiction this would be a harrowing story. I began watching with my customary disdainful attitude, and by about the 45 minute mark was absolutely astounded at my mental, emotional, and physical reaction to it. Watch with an open mind and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Spooky but confusing","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  *********Spoiler Warning**********Overall I liked this movie, even if it is taking some serious liberties with the source material, such as setting events that took place in the sixties into the modern day, and creating more of a story than there actually was.  (But where are the men in black?  They were sighted along with the mothmen during the real events.)Taken as a serious thriller it falls far short, not enough is explained or made clear.  The most conventional part of the story is Richard Gere mourning his dead wife, and both gradually developing affection for Laura Linney (who is making a name for herself as a serious character actress) and realizing that she may also be facing a death that this time can be avoided.  Most of the rest is buried in layers of nuances and intrigue, which would probably take several viewings to figure it all out.  I don't for a moment believe the film makers were geniuses who told a fantastic tale, if anything they were trying too hard to create an atmosphere.  However, there are some interesting ideas about how we base our realities on what we remember or what we believe, and that keeps the interest going even if the mothmen are never described as much more than shadowy spirits who like to show up around disaster time and tell cryptic foreboding about it.  I really would like to have known if the mothmen were true supernatural creatures or, as the writer says in one scene, beings simply able to see farther than we can.  Why do they care so much about disasters anyway? In the hands of a great director like Kurosawa or Kubrick this alternate reality dreamland the mothmen come from could have been very deep and powerful, instead we get more questions than answers.  "},{"Title":"oooooooo scaaawwwwy!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film was super scary without being gross, and had me wigged out watching it late one night in the dark. Richard Gere is not my favorite, but I think he did a good job in the part of a scared guy without making it too hokey. I didn't feel this movie had any real conclusion, and being that it is a movie and not simply a documentary, it seemed to deserve one, even if it were only a written epilogue about the after effects in the town. Overall I would give this movie a B, worth a rental, but overall I didn't feel it was fantastic. Mothman would obviously appeal more to those familiar with the lore and have a general fascination with bumps in the night.  "}{"Title":"A thinking person's thriller.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think I have probably seen one or two complete X-Files episodes and scattered snatches of several others as I have flicked by as it played on a channel.I say that because even as little exposure to the series as I have had, I recognize stylistic influences from the X-files on this movie.That said, the film does stand on it's own as a supernatural thriller and I enjoyed watching it. I had read the John Keel book years ago and knew this film was based on the book so it would take what liberties it needed to to tell a good story.I read here over and over again that a complaint is that the viewers never got to see the boogieman. I am perhaps old-fashioned in that I believe that less is more as far as horror movies go. My imagination is quite active enough to fill in the gaps if you give me enough clues to go by. This film provides amble glimpses and clues as to the nature of the mothman, I didn't need a lingering camera shot, I didn't need to count it's scales or feathers to know that it was scary enough in the little glances we got in the movie. But I do understand that some need their imagination spoon-fed.All in all, a good movie. Filled with twists and confusion just as I am sure thae characters were in the story. It is not a story that is laid out in a very formulaic manner, you might have to think a bit to get this one. But if you are willing to sit with it, give your self over to it and go for the ride, it is very enjoyable and has a whole lot more to say than just scaring us. "},{"Title":"Deeper than first glance","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was a little skeptical about watching this film at first, as it didn't seem to hold much interest for me. In the end I am glad that I did watch it, because behind the spooky veneer of the Moth Man mythology there is definately deeper meaning to this story. It's quite easy to mistake some of the characters (including Gere's wife in the film) as ultimately inconsequential but each of these characters do indeed have an involvement with the plot.While the Moth Man plot is rich and somewhat open ended, it relaxes towards the end of the film, and Gere's struggle to let go of his past anguish in favour of ensuring his future becomes the main focus of the film. In essence, it is impossible to understand an enigma such as the Moth Man, but if we take this simple theory and apply it to every character involved in the film, or every person who has ever received insight into disasters of the future, I think you'll find that it isn't far wrong.Of course we only see what we want to see. This is true of both us as the audience, and any person receiving such precognition, but I suggest you give this film some of your own time and I'm sure you'll garner more than just a spooky evening of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Whuh?  (aka the Son of Lost Highway)","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I knew next to nothing about the Mothman case until fairly recently, and I was lucky to be able to read the book by John Keel before seeing the film. To be honest, I wasn't expecting much...the book is fatally disjointed, rambling, scientifically inaccurate (my favourite bit is where Keel sneers at the idea of there being planets around other stars), and...well...it seemed very strange to me that UFOs could buzz this town for months on end, as Keel makes clear, without anyone taking photographs of, or filming, a single one.  Keel's other writings on flying saucers are, to put it mildly, X Files nonsense...tales of secret alien bases in Nevada, a war between Uncle Sam and the Greys etc etc.  But, from the other books I have read, it was clear that *something* very strange had happened in Point Pleasant West Va. in 1966/7, so I decided to give the film a go. And...well, it's a mixed bag.  The Mothman Prophecies plays like David Lynch on an off day ie it has the concentrated, almost autistic strangeness of a Lynch movie but it lacks the coherent inner logic that even the strangest Lynchian moment possesses There are many shots on the movie that are in fact clearly ripped off Lynch's Lost Highway.  What we get is ambiguity in spades, lots of very artsy direction, and a story that starts out telling us nothing and ends up telling us...not a great deal more.This is the problem, you see - the film is based on 'true events', but you can't come straight out and say 'alien moth people turned up in this town and warned folks about a coming disaster' because you CAN'T BACK THAT UP. So, the director is forced to show us lots of strange things taking place without giving us any clear idea as to what is going on.   With that said, the story delivers more information than some viewers might think and have claimed here...but again, said info is all so hazy and snowed under by flash cuts, wobbling Se7en-esque superimpositions and Metal Machine Music sound dubs that the point gets lost.  One feels fuzzy-headed after seeing this flick, for sure.Richard Gere, who for some reason reminded me of Harrison Ford in this film, underplays the central role of John Klein (Keel) to good effect.  The sort of movies he's known for tend to inspire little but contempt in me, so it was good to see him tackle a new genre.  Will Patton is excellent as the tormented contactee Gordon, while Laura Linney is...flat as the sympathetic town cop.  The film can never decide whether it's a tale of lost love and emotional redemption or a flat psych-horror, with the result that the intended emotional weight is either submerged or knocked out of the frame completely.We never see the Mothman.  So?  We never saw the Blair Witch either.  What you don't see is far scarier than what you do...an elementary lesson that Robert Wise learnt in The Haunting but has passed most directors since him by.  It would have been nice to see even a small glimpse of the creature, sure, but given that no-one (not us, not the cast) ever find out what really happened, the lack of an 'enemy' is actually quite fitting.  One's mind fills in the blanks for something that would always have been grosly disappointing had it been shown, I think.  For my part, the scene where enitity Indrid Cold talks to Klein on his hotel phone (the scene was stolen wholesale from Lost Highway as well, btw) is far scarier than a barnful of slavering mothmen onscreen.Where were the UFOs that were so prominently featured in the book? Well, you can watch a deleted scene on the DVD where the cast look at some lights in the sky we are never shown, but other than that, sorry folks.  So, mothmen are OK to talk about in this movie, but not flying saucers?!  Perhaps the director was afraid if he explored the UFO angle, people would dismiss the film as a Scully and Doggett rip-off.  Too late!Ah, but strangely absent factors are so typical of this movie...the director has nothing to show us but smoke and mirrors.  Pellington has talent, and not a small amount of it, but classy photography and sheer chutzpah can't carry a story with so little flesh to it.One extra point for the dramatic and very well directed disaster scene at the end...I won't spoil it, but that part was very VERY well done.  In fact, the whole film is beautifully made...but like an Easter egg, there's nothing under the shell.  Still, I liked it.So, if you dug Arlington Road, see this movie.  If you love films that are all style and no substance, see this movie. If you liked Lost Highway, you've *already seen* this movie.One point *off* for the making of featurettes on the DVD, in which the director pontificates with truly breathtaking pretentiousness about all manner of things, some of which are to do with the movie.  You'd think he could have at least shaved for the opening scene, for the love of Mike. "},{"Title":"Mixed Bag","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Being familiar with John A Keels book of the same name I was very keen to see this film when it first came out in cinemas. Now having finally seen the finished product I'm not quiet sure what to think. The film is definatly well made and sets the scene perfectly. Richard Gere is always good value on the screen and I certainly enjoyed the eerie/spooky atmosphere created by the director.However the story does seem a bit all over the place. The Mothman whom the film is named after never actually makes an appearence, just lots of stories and flashing lights, I think they could have shown him to us at least once even if it was only a fleeting glance. The characters seem to chase their tails most of the time totally confused and the audience right along with them. Also the film seems a bit artsy to me, relying more on atmosphere than substance and trying to scare you with dark shadows and spooky scenes rather than anything you can actually see or feel. This is ok for a while but ends up leaving with an empty feeling that the film was about nothing at all.Overall I found the film enjoyable to watch but it failed to live up to what I had hoped for. If you want the real story of Mothman and the silver bridge disaster read the book of the same name. Its well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Strange and Hauntingly Creepy","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is a movie about a man, john klein that is torn apart by his wife's mysterious death. Two years after, strange things start happening that might be clues to his wife's death. The more deeper john goes to find out what happened, the more creepier and strange the movie gets. Something strange is happening in Point Pleasant, West Virginia. People have been reporting that they've seen a creature, something called a mothman. The scary part in this movie is that it's actually based on true events. I would give the mothman prophecies 9/10 "},{"Title":"Held my attention and interest (and that's darned hard to do)","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The central theme of this movie held my interest and attention.  In fact, I'll read the book and do some research into the subject matter.  I don't normally care for Gere movies but aside from the stupid love scene in the closet, I could tolerate him in this movie.All in  all, very enjoyable and worth seeing again, "},{"Title":"X-Filesesque Thriller","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Based on a true story, but mostly fiction. An extremely chilling and well-made thriller, playing like a very good (and long) X-Files episode. Daring and great ending. And we have to say this. Laura Linney is perhaps the most incredible actress right now. She's at least right up there with Jodie Foster and Helen Hunt. Rating - 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great but confusing at times","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies was a very good film with lots of tension and great acting. The film is supposed to be based on a true story but after watching this film you will find it hard to believe. I'm not giving anything away but there is a massive great plothole in the story which confused me (the 3 days with the knocking). Overall 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"An X-Files episode","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you like The X-Files tv show, you'll probably like The Mothman Prophecies. The story dynamics, atmosphere, and approach to borderline, elusive phenomena appear to be similar. Frankly I'm surprised Richard Gere and Laura Linney are in this picture--it doesn't seem to be their type of material. Not that they phoned-in their performances--pardon the pun--but the movie is clearly plot driven. Mothman is, ultimately, more startling and eerie than terrifying, and I hope nobody takes its subject matter seriously. Director Mark Pellington is a director to watch for on future projects. "},{"Title":"scary","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" basically, the movie just mixes up the pain and neurotic restlessness of a journalist who loses his true love in an evitable car crash, the urban myth of some tell-tale mothman and the factual 1967 point pleasant silver bridge disaster. boo! so what?well, it does so well, that you need quite a time to chill out afterwards. pellington did a hell of a directing job, gere is awesome (a pity that messing dies here so early, she's quite a stunner), the whole plot convinces, and the fact that the final disaster really happened makes nothing less scary, really.one of the best scary movies ever. don't let your children watch this. "}{"Title":"Not Half Bad","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Based on true events (or at least a few odd sitings), The Mothman Prophecies is a metaphysical thriller that's enjoyable like an X-Files episode, though it feels like two movies awkwardly stitched together (is it a scary film that makes us think, or a story of personal redemption through tragedy?).  Director Mark Pellington makes the film compelling, retaining a stylish and spooky atmosphere throughout, but viewers are left wondering why director he only used the Mothman creature as an impetus for the story, abandoning him/it for the second half.  Still, it wasn't like I wanted to leave the theater in disgust&#133; When his wife Mary (played wonderfully by Debra Messing &#150; let's get her some more Hollywood roles) is unexpectedly killed in a strange, flukey car-accident, John Klein (Richard Gere), a respected Washington Post journalist (instigated by his wife's eerie sketchpad), examines the mysterious circumstances surrounding her death, becoming entangled in a strange phenomenon four hundred miles away in Point Pleasant, West Virginia, where all sorts of weird things have happened.  Once there, he rolls up his sleeves, and digs right in (where we, the viewers, are given no impression of time)!  Crypto-zoologists will dig this, as it examines the myth of the infamous Mothman, a friend of El Chupacabra and Sasquatch, but Pellington shrouds its `tangible' existence in too much mystery, which only helps confuse the viewer.  For example, why does the Mothman (also known as Ingrid Cold for no apparent reason) have so many different forms and voices?  What's the point?  The creature needs only be psychic to turn in a good plot!  Then the film concludes as a disaster flick with Klein at the heart of a dramatic rescue, further confusing the motivation of the movie -- Pellington can't decide if this is The Poseidon Adventure or The Legend of Boggy Creek!  Still, his bridge catastrophe might rank up there behind director Andrew Davis' train-wreck sequence in The Fugitive!Despite its cohesiveness, I still liked this film.  It was a good role for Gere, and both Messing and Laura Linney (playing Connie Parker, a local cop) were amazing!  Unlike most overly made-up heroines in film, these two seemed real to me (perhaps its their freshness and lack of high-profile film roles).  And director Pellington, the man behind Arlington Road, should have a long, interesting career based soley on his camera-work!  Still, I'd be a bit inclined to skip on MP-2 The Mothman Who Shagged Me!  "},{"Title":"One of the scariest movies i have seen in a long,long while.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not a great fan of horror films yet i still persist in watching them in the hope that i will find one that scares me or even interest me. I'm hate the Scream/i know what you did last summer teen slasher films because they are all the same and are so predictable . in my opinion they have put the horror film genre back 30 years. Thank heavens that every now and then a film like The Mothman Prophecies comes along and scares the hell out of you. This film is inteligent , well acted and most importantly to the mind of the viewer it is a so called true story. We dont see buckets of blood or even a screaming teenager in sight but what we do see is a film that will spook you into being interested into what really happened in West Virginia. If you get the DVD , watch the documentary and you will see the director has changed the story slightly but never the less these things happened. Forget trash like Jeepers Creeper watch the Mothman Prophecies. 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"simply excellent...","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'll try to be as short as possible. To enjoy this movie you have to forget that the whole idea of Mothman is laughable. Just as you forget that a Galactic Empire of Star Wars is laughable. The cinematography is excellent, and so is the soundtrack. I am not a fan of Richard Gere, to say the least, but he is surprisingly good in the lead role. The supporting cast are an adequate match. Forget about the improbability of the story - it's plain good suspense. Very good, actually. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  You know how it is. You drive past a bus shelter and see a poster for a film. It looks quite good and, in the back of your mind, you tell yourself you must give it a basin full of looking at when the opportunity arises. It stays in your mind and every time you see the poster or title, it's just another reminder that the film is on your to see listAnd so it was with me and The Mothman PropheciesOh dearThe story concerns people who are visited by some sort of monster and who then predict a future disaster. Richard Gere, a reporter, finds out but spends the whole film running around like a headless chicken. The director is obviously from some fancy art house school of film making, using blurred and, frankly, pretentious camera angles to further addle the mind of the viewerThere are no answers at the end - and there's no action at all. It's a series of interconnected boredom inducing set piecesFeh!  "},{"Title":"Let's hope this mothman gets caught in the bug zapper","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think one of the rules of the supernatural suspense movie should be that once the lead character finds definite proof that something otherworldly is going on, he should just except it and move on. Here we get not just one but two incredibly drawn out scenes where this mothman guy predicts the deaths of many people, and sure enough, 300 people have died all at once. And even then Richard Gere doesn't seem to be totally convinced. The whole movie is like that, endlessly repeating itself. Every scene is shot from as many different angles as possible while being buried under a droning, electronic score. Pointless. Laura Linney and Alan Bates were good though. *1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"My prophecies say Mothman is wonderful!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I may not be an expert, but I feel this movie has a special je ne sais quoi about it. The darkness makes you wonder if there is something hidden in the shadows the whole time, like someone watching you. The undescribable voice on the phone, the shadows that start to play tricks on your eyes and all the little creaks and bumps make you wonder if you are really alone long after the movie is over. Once again, I am not a professional movie critic and I don't know flaws to look for, but maybe that is what makes it more enjoyable to me.My only complaint is the minor love story. It's never directly stated, but it's hinted at. Love stories pull away from the man story and often times ruin the movie for me. (ie. Titanic and Titanic 2...I mean, Pearl Harbor) But I guess, for the most part, since there is never major reference to it, then the love story could sneak by without too much criticism.This film does not run fast. Actually, it is rather slow, but there are many moments when your heart will race even though nothing is happening because you're expecting something. The final scene does a wonderful job of keeping your mind working over time and makes the slower parts of the movie seem meaningful and completely worth it. I rate this movie high!~K~ "},{"Title":"The Greatest Suspense Sinse Jacob's Ladder!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Proficies was a great movie. Even though I like itbetter when all of the questions are answered at the end of themovie (this one didn't), I still enjoyed it. Solid acting, good andinteresting story and real creepy music. Mothman has all of these.A great movie to watch, watch it on a stormy light with the lights out.My vote 8*'s out of 10*'s. "},{"Title":"Richard Gere plays Fox Mulder - and it works!","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this movie. With the inflation of the movies in the supernatural, script writers and directors forgot one of the basic rules - letting the supernatural unexplained is a basic rule for a terror and magic story. Trying to explain it based on science or religious grounds, or trying to visualize the forces of the un-natural only spoils the magic. This is why the first seasons of 'X-Files' were better then the coming ones, and the more we knew about the causes of the troubles of agents Mulder and Scully, the most thin the veil of magic was. The directors of this film understood well these basic rules. Should they have tried to explain the causes of the 'real' story the film is based upon - failure would be their fate, as in many other similar cinema endeavors. They avoided this mistake, and the result is a very well filmed and acted story that really caught me, and frightened me. Even Richard Gere, who is not one of my favorites actors got a decent role and act here, though David Duchovny did it many years before in 'X-Files', probably at a lesser pay ;-). I am amazed by the critics this film received. It was much better than the critics say. I hope that it will make in the video the money it did not make on the screens, and the time will vindicate it, as a cult movie - it would be a deserved fate. "},{"Title":"Feeble horror tale.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film has a lot going for it  unsettling plot based on fact, fine acting by Richard Gere, Laura Linney, Will Patton et al, effectively atmospheric photography on wintry Pennsylvania locations, and skilled direction by Mark Pellingon (ARLINGTON ROAD).  But the end result, unfortunately, adds up to not much in the scare department.At first the film's carefully calibrated atmosphere of unease works in its favor.  We're drawn into the Twilight Zone-ish predicament of Washington Post reporter Gere, who, having lost his beloved wife in a mystifying car accident depicted in the prologue, embarks on a road trip to Richmond, Virginia late one night.  When his car breaks down, he finds himself stranded and disoriented in a small West Virginia town, having traveled an impossible distance in not only the wrong direction, but in far too short a time.  It gets worse when he knocks at a local farmhouse and finds himself at the wrong end of a shotgun wielded by an enraged Will Patton, who insists that Gere has been harassing him and his family for three nights running(!).With the help of sympathetic local constable Linney, Gere gradually begins to piece together the odd happenings, which revolve around tantalizing references to, and incremental glimpses of, the title entity.  Apparently the Mothman is some kind of otherworldly harbinger of disaster, and his/its appearance portends death and doom.But this intriguing premise remains muddled and illogical.  Gere tracks down reclusive paranormal author Alan Bates, but he's not much help in explaining just what the hell it is that's going on.  After more vague supernatural occurrences, including an eerie phone conversation with an apparently inhuman, omniscient being (The Mothman?  Or one of many Mothmen?  We never really know.), the story climaxes with an impressive special effects sequence that is exciting to watch but not particularly frightening.I could live with the Mothman -- or Mothmen -- being left somewhat ambiguous as to what their true nature is.  But for a horror film, the lack of confrontation with the title creature and the fact that we never see the damn thing even though its salient insectoid/non-human form is what inspires dread in the first place, is ultimately a cheat and a disappointment.  As Stephen King has said, in true horror you can build up suspense all you want, but sooner or later you have to show the Bear.  Or in this case, the Moth would have sufficed. "},{"Title":" No, please, no don't do this to me","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Richard Gere is impressive as Jonathan in this intriguing suspense flick. The remaining cast is trustworthy. The costumes are magnificent. One of the good farces in the genre, Mothman Prophecies will make the viewer's spine tingle. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When did I last see a movie that managed to keep it's ambience of insecure tension throughout? Oh yes, that was Arlington Road by the same director. Mark Pellington is a crafty director, and his strength lies in the pacing and the exploitation of uncertainty. As quite many were lost to this movie, this is not to everyone's taste. You need to approach this movie with a serious mood, unsuspended disbelief and a moderate attention span.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing Subject Matter, But...","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really feel that Mark Pellington took a huge step backwards with this film.  The specificity that he showed in Arlington Road; the suspense, the slow build and the building of the characters was kind of thrown by the wayside here.  I suppose that has as much to do with screenplay as it does with anything but as the director he's the final guy that takes those words and commits them to film, so I still hold him accountable.I did however find this movie interesting.  I had never heard of the Mothman or of the incident that took place in Pleasant Point.  The fact that it was based on a true story was what really intrigued me and this managed to cancel out alot of the flaws I was finding in the film.  Richard Gere gave a decent performance but this is not one of his breakout roles by any means. Laura Linney and Will Patton were both very believable and added validity to the supposed unnatural phenomenon encompassing the town.Not an A List Movie, but still worth the time to watch.  You'll come away intrigued and wondering if the Mothman is just folklore or another one of those things that most of us just don't realize is among us. "},{"Title":"Too much story in the wrong area","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well there were alot of aspects about the movie that I enjoyed. The story about his wife and this cop didn't interest me too much tho, I was more concerned about the Mothman which they kept drawing away from. The drawings were cool, but being as I've actually seen the Mothman after my last trip back from Point Pleasant I really think they could've done a better job at showing him move and not use those drawout effects so much. Most of the movie kept me confused and beat the hell out of my poor poor attention span. I kept thinking that the movie was going to end at after a few different scenes towards the end because it was so drawn out. The biggest thing that got me is that 90% of the stories take place in the 60's and this movie was filmed like it all happened in the 90's. "},{"Title":"A Creepy But Flawed Movie","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Mothman Prophecies is really creepy. Ive seen it three times and its scared the hell out of me each time. Its one of those movies that gives you all the way down your back. It would be completely perfect if its script was a little better. I am not talking about the dialogue, which is pretty much the primary concern in horror movies. Im talking about the holes in the script. Near the end you can see that there are a few holes in the script. Overall, a really creepy and entertaining movie. Its worth buying but its script could have been revised. "},{"Title":"I had no idea","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I found this film to very engaging and very bizarre.  I had no idea, until after the movie was over and I went online, that it differed so from the book originally written so I watched the movie with no bias and probably enjoyed it much more because of it.  The whole idea of this apparition or figure, the idea of premonitions of disaster and the thought of predestined fate all made the viewing experience that much more stimulating.  I liked the fact that the director was intelligent enough to know that the power of the mind lies in the imagination and not in having everything exposed onscreen (unlike Signs where the alien looked ridiculous, thus taking away from the power of the unknown).  If anything, this movie will probably induce me to end up reading a few of these books and looking into some of the unknown addressed in the film.An enjoyable DVD experience, a thousand times better than Birthday Girl which my boyfriend popped in first.  Watch it on a rainy Sunday afternoon - it's that kind of movie. "},{"Title":"Weak plot, weaker acting. Waste of rental $$$","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had high hopes for this flick after reading all the good reviews here. But after seeing it, I wish I had saved my rental money for a movie that actually had a coherent plot and some real actors. I am totally stunned that this movie has such good reviews! Seriously, the plot was so weak as to be nearly nonexistant -- John Klein, who lost his wife 2 years earlier to a brain tumor after a car accident, finds himself in a strange town and hears several similar accounts about a mothlike creature with glowing red eyes that seems to appear right before bad things happen. Coincidentally, his late wife also saw this creature before her fatal accident -- surely there must be a tie here? (There is not, except that the Mothman appeared before something bad happened.) All this sounded like the beginnings of a great plot, but unfortunately, that's as far as it ever went. The viewer is left with all sorts of unanswered questions at the end of the movie, the main one being What the hell was THAT all about? For example <possible spoiler ahead>, what's with the scene when Klein first goes to a home for help and is told by the residents that he was there three nights in a row? That was one huge string that was left to hang in space! As for the acting, well, Richard Gere has never shown much talent. In every one of his movies I've seen, he is all eye candy, no substance, and this flick is no exception.All in all, don't waste your money on this one. There are lots of good horror movies out there. This is not one of them.  "},{"Title":"(Mild Spoilers) What happens in the mind is far more terrifying...","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Mild spoilers ensue throughout this review.Those who view this film and complain about slow pacing, the ending not explained, or not enough action are used to being spoon-fed.That which is seen with other than our two natural eyes is the true mystery, and can be the true horror as well. No, we can't explain it--and I applaud director Mark Pennington for not insulting my intelligence by coming up with some contrived, slick Hollwood ending all wrapped up neatly in Christmas paper.Richard Gere is, for once, not over-the-top or melodramatic in his role as Washington Post reporter John Klein, who's about to take the out-of-the-way ride of his life. Alan Bates as Alexander Leek is utterly believable as a man who's been to the edge and peeked over, then decided to run as far as he can from what he saw there.Debra Messing is good as Mary, the wife John loses and who may be trying to reach him again (or not.)Will Patton is the tortured individual who is seeing, or not seeing, Something. And hearing whatever it is in his bathroom drain. And becoming a sort of transmitter for whatever it is. And...well, let's just say his life doesn't get any simpler as his visitations grow more intense.Laura Linney's Connie Mills, apparently the only police officer on duty in Point Pleasant, W. Va., is enigmatic at times. She starts out wanting to believe that something way out of the ordinary is happening in her hometown. Later she backs away somewhat, seemingly unwilling to accept what she sees going on, and what Klein is telling her. Later yet we hear her call him in his Georgetown apartment (or is she really calling him?) and is the warm, concerned female friend who wants to save Klein from--what? Madness? Solitude? The Mothman?All through the film, cinematography, editing, and special effects--not to mention tight writing--give us a story that creeps up and spreads its dark wings over us in the night. A particularly electric moment occurs in Klein's motel room, as his image in a mirror is just a bit out of synch with the man himself, as if it had a life of its own. A moment later, we wonder if it did...Don't see this film if you want exploding cars and exposed cleavage. Stay away if you want everything all tidy and spelled out by the time end credits roll. Do rent it, however, if you seek a thriller that believes in your ability to envision the unimaginable.   "},{"Title":"X Files meets Richard Gere","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a good movie.  David Eigenberg was very good in it as the CRAZY man who placed a shotgun to Richard Gere in one scene.  This movie left me scratching my head as to what the heck the MOTHMAN was all about.  David Eigenberg claimed to have MET Him.  As it turns out, the person that he claimed to have met was named Ingrid Cold.  INGRID COLD is the musician that wrote the theme song to this movie!  I caught that in the credits.  Richard Gere plays a journalist who is driving along one night with his wife.  His wife sees a moth and hits it.  That's when she gets a TUMOR and eventually dies.  Then Richard Gere loses 5 or so hours of time and ends up near OHIO.  That's where he meets David Eigenberg.  He spends lots of time trying to figure out who the MOTHMAN is.  He in fact, becomes OBSESSED with it.  It was very strange and left many questions unanswered for me.  The COP is this movie was very cute.  Good thing she never hooked up with either David Eigenberg or Richard Gere, that would have RUINED the movie.  I am glad I rented this.  Had I seen it at the THEATER, I would have been let down. "},{"Title":"Dares to be different (and succeeds)","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, congratulations to Richard Gere for starring in a film that does not suck (or blow). Its taken him quite a few attempts but he has finally made it.The Mothman Prophecies, for me was a film with imagination and ambition. I would refute the 'X-Files on Prozac' accusations and say that it rises above anything the X-Files has done in years.I think a good movie has to be inventive. I dont particularly like 'point a to point b to arrive at conclusion c' films, or dull clinical editing. This was a heavily stylised film and, i believe all the better for it. The lights forming the shape of a moth, red lights tricking us to think of menacing eyes and the clever use of sound and jump edits to keep us on (or above!) the edge of our seat (the part where Gere is talking on the phone and his reflection in the mirror was a split second ahead comes to mind).The exposition of the Mothman as a sentient being was well handled, as well as keeping the humanoid version blurred and mysterious. Not being familiar with the source text I couldn't comment on how well the Indrid cold translated, but for me it was pretty good.All in all, the story rattled along at a decent pace and Gere gave a good performance as a man who is always one step behind (If it had been me i would have probably been committed ;-)). I would highly recommend The Mothman Prophecies to anyone who likes a bit of a thriller and appreciates a break from the norm. The only thing I would have liked is a bit of a conclusion on the 'Mothmen', but as I have said before, I'm a sucker for a back-story.**** out of ***** (Well done Richie! Lets have more of these and less Runaway Brides!)  "},{"Title":"Reviewer prophesies gloomy future ahead.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Occasionally slightly spooky, but let down by pacing that a dying snail would leave for dead. Gere as a reporter in transit inexplicably finds himself in a backwoods town, where worried inhabitants seem to be suffering from the same visions experienced by Gere's dead wife shortly after a car accident that eventually claimed her life.The nature of &#145;Mothman' is never satisfactorily outlined, and a note on the closing credits to the effect that the events just portrayed have never been explained merely looks like a cop-out. The cast do well with the material at hand and the whole thing has a decent gloomy and doom-ridden feel to it, but by the end you won't really care what comes next. In fact, if you're still awake at the 90 minute mark, give yourself a pat on the back.  "}{"Title":"A good yarn told and executed well!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had not heard much about The Mothman Prophesies so I didn't know what toexpect. I have to say I was pleasantly surprised. Leaving aside any belief that the subject matter was actually true, it was a good yarn told and executed well. Richard Gere, as ever, commands the screen and never loses credibility. He is an actor who even if you dislike, you have to respect. I have since looked into the 'real' story and found that the screenplay is very very loosely based on real reports of events that happened back in the sixties. Given that it was drawn from 'real life', I was puzzled as how the story could appear so formulaic, but I suppose that's Hollywood for you, but if they HAD to tinker with the real story why didn't they go the whole way and give some kind of explanation as to why these things were happening? It would have have madethe film a lot more satisfying. Anyway that is just me nitpicking. In short I recommend this film as an undemanding, stylish supernatural chiller. Just don't expect The Exorcist.  6/10 "},{"Title":"yeah, yeah","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Average movie , but scary?  Someone point out the scary bit please?Based on true events?   A couple of people saw a barn owl, they had some phone problems then a bridge collapsed = Foretelling Super Mothmen on Earth?  I don't think so.If you'd based it at Area 51 you might have got Tom Cruise! "},{"Title":"Not as good as some others of its genre","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is effectively creepy, but it drags a bit and as many others have pointed out, it leaves too many unanswered questions.  The number one question of course is  who or what are the mothmen and what are they trying to do here?  But I suppose since this film is based on true events and there's never been an answer to that question in real life, they couldn't create one for the movie (or at least they didn't have to.)  Richard Gere is good, but the better performance comes from Laura Linney.  Overall this is a decent supernatural/fantasy flick, but not on the same level as The Others, K-Pax, or even Dragonfly. "},{"Title":"Slow-Moving And Boring.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies could have been better than it was. The idea of a Mothman movie was a good idea, but the movie didn't turn out too well. First of all, the story moved way too slowly which bothers an audience. Second of all, the movie could have had some more action, and less suspense. The suspense was so large that it makes it boring. I mean, suspense is good, but when you over use it it changes everything. They should have had more action in the film. The acting was good, nothing not expected from Richard Gere. Although, there were some things that stood out. One, the idea of making a Mothman film was an outstanding idea, I mean they finally hit untouched ground. Two, the storyline wasn't bad, but again, there was too much suspense and not enough action. So, this could have been better. I give The Mothman Prophecies a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This movie rules and scared the crap outta me!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  All you guys that didn't like this movie are stupid and uneducated. Like that guy that liked Joy Ride. This movie was almost near perfect. Well paced, amazingly shot and edited, with a great score and great performances, and it scared the living crap out of me every five minutes and still does now that it's done. It's probably the scariest movie I've ever seen. It just moved up to my list of favorites. Handled well, it doesn't use any of this computer graphic nonsense crap to scare the audience, but earns it scares the way they should be earned - by not showing anything at all and letting the audiences own fears come in to play. Amazingly well done and freakin' terrifying! I wanted to sleep with the lights on after seeing it! Anyone who doesn't like this movie is dumb.  "},{"Title":"Excellent truly scary movie","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There are plenty of bad reviews of this movie on imdb.com, but I'm going to have to say that I disagree with all of them.  This is quite possibly the best scary movie I've seen in a long time.  I think it is key to watch these kinds of movies in complete darkness without anyone making jokes about it, because that just ruins any movie.More to the point, this movie is excellent.  Classic example of what you don't know/see/understand is scarier than what you do see.  I think people these days are too inclined to see people getting cut up and beaten, etc in movies like the recent Halloween movies that they don't really know what a good scary movie is.  Well this is it.  Rent it, turn off all the lights, watch it at 10 pm, nobody talk.  It will scare the crap out of you.  As soon as it ended I turned on all the lights and kept looking over shoulder.10/10 "},{"Title":"It was...Ok...I suppose","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film is fairly interesting and pretty well done, but it is far from anything spectacular.  If you're into films that are creepy, pointless and without explanation, then this is the film for you.I know that makes it sound like I hated the movie, but no, I didn't hate the movie.  It was ok, pretty much just what I expected, only I was really hoping for more of an explanation as to what or who this Mothman is?  The entire film revolves around this being of sorts, but there is virtually no explanation or attempt to explain why what happens in the film, happens, you just have to accept it.  ...And there really is no point to the creepy-ness of the film, other than to be creepy to the audience.The film is most-definitely very creepy and of a super-natural nature, so if you're into those sorts of movies, you may want to check this one out.  The film doesn't rely on special effects AT ALL, which is kind of cool, 'cause then you can let your imagination run wild.  Well, if you do end up seeing the movie, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"A *classic* supernatural thriller","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Contains SPOILER For the many of us that awe and revel at the mysteries of life, death, and the supernatural realm in between, Mothman Prophecies strikes a chord of interest.  This film was subtle, intense, and very scary. Loosely based on actual events recounted in the book of the same name by John Keel, the film introduces us to the folklore of the mothman, a mysterious spirit-man-creature that is purported to visit us before we are to die a tragic death.  John Klein, a Washington Post reporter, is gradually drawn into the world of the mothman, following his wife who has died two years earlier tragically and mysteriously.  The set of Point Pleasant, Ohio - very appropriately named - where he is drawn is an isolated, almost otherworldly town in West Virginia we are used to finding in the likes of Stephen King classics. One by one, characters in the film give in to the advances of a mysterious presence, and in doing so, unwittingly seal their own doom.  Only John Klein, apparently, has the power of self to resist. But we don't learn all these intense details until the VERY end, so this film leaves you reeling with thought if you didn't read the book (as I didn't).  The cinematography and music is masterful, haunting, and thought inspiring.  Very well done creepy visuals and sets, including phone calls from beyond, lost time (not knowing where you are or how you got there), and dream-like meetings with the mothman who seems demonic in habilment. The audience is left to interpret many of the mythical details of the monthman themselves, which I think is the mark of the greatest of suspense thrillers.  What I though was most original and scary was the notion that if you meet the mothman, your doom is sealed.  We are on edge when John Klein is about to pick up the phone and be reunited with his dead wife, but his better judgement prevents his from doing so.  By rebuking his dead wife, we know John Klein saved himself from his own tragic fate.  A very original idea - the conscious choice to save yourself from fate.  Through the chilling accounts of the mothman prophesy, we gain a thoughtful perspective on our own life and death.  A classic.  "},{"Title":"Terrible Ending","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers ahead.This movie was based on actual facts (though I suspect much poetic license was used).The Mothman Prophecies contained a terrible ending. It did not answer the question of  what or who the Mothman (aka Ingrid Cold) was.Definitely glad I didn't waste big money seeing this film at a theater.  Though it might be worth a rental, if you can't find anything else interesting. "},{"Title":"The Lost Wave","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Saw this on a monday evening with my family and felt obliged to sit down and watch Peter Weir's The Last Wave on tuesday to show how this sort of thing should be done. Mothman is an okay try...but this kind of film is only as good as its payoff and the payoff in here is weak. If you were spooked by this, find The Last Wave. I fortell a wonderful film experience if you do. "}{"Title":"Good heebie-jeebies!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked it!  I love spooky, creepy, goose-bump inducing stories, and this one didn't disappoint! I had heard some pretty blah reviews for this movie, but I wanted to see it anyways.  I'm glad I did!  There were a couple of really good creep outs for me - one of them was John's reflection in his motel room mirror while he was talking on the phone.  I thought I was seeing things...how could his reflection move before he did?  Pretty cool...Anyhow, I enjoyed watching this.  I devoured every little detail and watched carefully to see where each one fit into the story as it developed.  Very well done! "},{"Title":"Just the right mix of horror, history, and Hollywood","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  As a fan of fortean study, I ran out to get the DVD ASAP.  I knew a smidge of the story to begin with, now know more. I liked the way the movie didn't stay true to the 1960's setting of Point Pleasant's bridge disaster.  I also liked the addition of the Chicago paranormal expert and his explanations of the universality of the Mothman type of creature.  I guess I'm more morbid than the average viewer may be, but I think the water rescue was too predictable.  It may have been a more powerful ending to have #37 end up staying #37.  Very interesting story and a well done movie extrapolating from the factual side. "},{"Title":"I just watched the movie and...","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay this is a movie that I had been avoiding for quite some time because of all the poor word-of-mouth it seems to have received. I'm not a fan of Richard Gere, and I do not care for modern fare such as I Know What You Did Last Summer or the countless Jason and Halloween re-hashings. I am, admittedly, a person that is VERY difficult to please in the whole horror experience. That said, I REALLY enjoyed this movie. A lot. Perhaps the fact I wasn't expecting much helped me enjoy it more, but I honestly feel the film's merits had more to do with that than any state of mind I may have been in. This is the first movie in quite some time that has genuinely creeped me out to the point where I actually turned the lights OFF so that I could revel in that all-too-seldom experience. I did not find it slow, or overly-long, or boring in any respect. And I'm not even claiming ownership of a wider than average attention span. My honest opinion as to why so many people seem to have been turned off by this movie is the fact that at some undiscernible point in the movie, it stops being a horror movie and starts becoming something else. A bold move, in my opinion, which unfortunately seems to have alienated the movie-going throngs hungry for your typical violent, bloody, lame climax. The Mothman Prophecies is a movie that should satisfy anyone with an imagination who longs for the days when scary movies were actually scary, and should rightfully displease those whose idea of a good scare is only equivalent to the splatter-content therein. Those are my two-bits, thanks for listening. "},{"Title":"Good story, but too many holes...","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie starts out slow and works its way up at a steady pace.  The story itself is good, but this film has too many plot holes.  I'm not going to get into it, but trust me, there are plot holes.  Richard Gere is his typical...himself, and the rest of the supporting characters are good.  I doubt any of this actually happened, but, hey, thats what they say.  2 stas out of 5. "},{"Title":"fact or fiction....","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie stunk, it was boring and had no substance.i only rented it because my wife likes richard gere so i thought we would give it a try. the movie in my opinion was a ripoff of a video game called silent hill. i dont know where to begin or end with how much i hated this movie but i will tell you this much, if your gonna rent it, (DONT)! wait for it to come on hbo or something. it wasnt that i didnt understand the movie, i understood that i hated it. "},{"Title":"Amazingly Powerful","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Amazing Power in this strange story of fate and destiny.The underlying connections between people and events is a powerful mystery and something that this film digs into with an intensity that is rare to see in movies today.  The strong performances make it all work. A very cool thought provoking film.  "},{"Title":"wicked movie","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this was an incredibly eerie movie. It's slower than normal horror movies. It carries it's own pace and unwinds slowly till your sucked in like a fly in a spiders web. People can say what they will about this film, but personally, being tired of all the slasher crap, I enjoyed its more mature psychological appeal. And I gotta tell you, as I watched this film around 2 AM in our darkened bedroom, it was really creepin' me out. If a film can creep me out, it gets an A plus. I wish they would make more horror films of this caliber, cause personally I don't care how many times Freddy returns to Elm Street, Jason comes back from hell, a bunch of little kids Scream or Michael Meyers gives Jamie Lee Curtis another reason to use her own natural wireless voicesteam, my taste is on movies like the Mothman prophecies, Donny Darko, Poltergeist, The Shining, the Sixth Sense, Vanilla Sky, The Others, and any other horror film that gives me cause to think and feel. "},{"Title":"Scary.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is actually based on events that occured in a small WV town named Point Pleasant. In the story a Washington Post reporter Jon Klein (Gere) VERY mysteriously finds him attracted to a small town miles & miles off of the route which he was taking to a different town. He encounters people in the town who have very strange encounters w/ a mysterious person/thing. And these people aren't your run of the mill crazy people but normal people encountering extraordinary things. This is a very good movie and it is Scary. "},{"Title":"Kinda creepy, but I couldn't find a theme.......but check out a part I missed the first time!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was alright, except that it was more of a whole bunch of events centered around a mothman rather than an actual plot. And there really isn't a theme, which I think is essential in art, but as pure entertainment it's a little creepy, which I guess was some of what it was intended to be, but it's not scary. And Will Patton does an excellent job.SPOLIER-----For those of you who've seen the movie, I rented it with some friends (against my wishes) but one of my friends who'd seen it before showed us something I'd missed the first time. In like, chapter 18, I think, on dvd, Richard Gere is on the phone in his hotel room. (not the scene where he hits his head on the mirror, after it) After he hangs up, he slams the door mirror, as it slams shut and falls back open, you can clearly see a reddish face with black hair appear and disappear in the mirror. I guess at first I must've mistaken it for his wife, because she shows up more than once, but out of boredom, we rewound and paused it on the face. It's clearly a blurry red image with black hair and eyesockets. It's the creepiest part of the movie. So if you rent it and you're bored to death, give this a shot. It's pretty cool.But not a very good movie overall "},{"Title":"Why all the baggin'?","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't understand why so many people were baggin' on this movie. I thought the story was very interesting. It kept my attention &#145;til the end. The movie deals with the unexplained, either in the real world or in the mind&#133;or both. The movie surrounds events that actually took place in back in the 60's, I believe, although they reset them in modern times. How much is really happening and how much is in the mind of the protagonist is, I think, the real question that wants to be answered (and for those who think that it was not, perhaps you need to see it again). The bridge sequence near the end of the movie was really intense but, the things going bump in the night leading up to it, create a very tense atmosphere. I thought Richard Gere's performance was very good. The make-up &#145;artist' on the set should have been fired though. Way, way too much make up on all the actors (see close-ups). Other than that I thought the movie was worth the rental price. That's my take. What's yours? "}{"Title":"Be sure to following through to the ending","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have read a number of reviews from people who thought the ending of this movie was a let-down.  For these reviewers who thought this movie lacked an ending, I would say you missed the point the movie was trying to make. The key to the message in the movie was do you try to find an answer for what's happening, or do you have faith in the message you're being given, instead?. In the end, the character played by Richard Gere, John Klein, decided against trying to find the earthly answer for what was happening, and chose to believe in its message, by trying to heed what it predicted. Notice the choice he had to make when he did not answer his wife's phone call. Also, if you do not finish it to the very end, you missed out completely on the significance of Connie's dream, which you cannot find out until the very end. This is truly a movie depicting the spirit world communicating with the earthly world. It asks how much vision can we really have, without having to have answers for it? Think of the message in the Bible which came from the burning bush -- did we try to find out WHO WAS IN THE BURNING BUSH first, before we would listen to the message? "},{"Title":"Excellent Screenplay","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This screenplay was excellent.  Everything falls into place very well.  Even the ending leaves the viewer satisfied. If you haven't seen this movie I recommend watching it. "},{"Title":"Gripping","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What has hapened to horror movies these days. With a few exception such as In Dreams, The Candyman and The Gift they have become nothing but a bunch of half naked teens getting themselves hacked up because they do everything worng. But now there is a new name in horror. This is the best horror movie of the year by far it is very mature and relies more on the unseen than buckets of gore and because of this it is abosoluty horrifying. Richard Gere is a reporter who five years after the strange death of his wife finds himself in a small town after his car breaks down but has no idea who he got there. He then knocks on the closest door he can find only to have a shotgun pushed in his face for showing up at that door for the third night in a row? This only marks the start of the weirdness. He then finds out that the towns people have reported werid sitings of a thing that his wife drew pictures of right before she died. Trust me folks it only gets stranger from there. Richard Gere puts in his best performance since Primal Fear and the direction is so errily good that Sam Ramai fans should be pleased. What makes this movie even better is the fact that it is supposed to be based on true facts and where other true stories fail to capture the realism of a situation this film doesn't make you doubt for one minute that these things didn't happen. This movie is so horrifyingly good that blinking might risk missing to much and you are guarenteed to be tense and on the edge of your seat from start to finish. This film is highly reccomended to anyone who is looking for a mature horror movie that gets its scare from what you don't know rather than what u do.  "},{"Title":"Blair Witch Scary","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I love a good horror movie.  And the fact that this one can draw you in to its madness with very very minimal special effects hints of craftsmanship - These people know what they are doing.  Any film that can make R. Gere look good has got something working overtime.  The Jackal, Sommersby, Primal fear, Looking for Mr Goodbar - all worked in spite of not because of R. Gere.  Then again I find this sort of story line very believable, so maybe I'm biased.  If you can't buy the hook, this is going to do nothing for you.  The only thing I had trouble with was the whole hyper-intellectual guy from Chicago thing.  If it had been done right I think it could have added a major creepiness factor.  As was, it sort of fell flat. "},{"Title":"Creepiness that will draw you in","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This one sucked me in pretty well.  I would call it `creepy' more than anything else.  I'm so used to getting blinded by gore and obvious terror that this was really quite refreshing.  Had sort of a `Twilight Zone' feel to it.  Richard Gere performed very well as a Washington Post reporter who basically comes close to descending into madness.  About half way through the movie, I remembered the actual incident on which the movie was based, which then made it even more interesting.  Checked out `Mothman' on the web and there were some very interesting tales about the legend.  It won't change your life or anything, but it certainly was an entertaining 2 hours.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just watched this last night with a few other people and was not impressed, although I, along with everyone else, was thoroughly confused. The movie has a number of flaws and plot holes that were not (or could not ) be explained. I like Laura Linney and do believe she is a versatile actress, but a cop? Come on!When Mary dies from a tumor you are lead to believe that the Mothman tried to kill her because he did cause the car accident. But apparently he was just trying to let the two of them know that she was going to die? Uh, okay. And why did she come back looking for him later in the film when she was already dead.Also, the character played by Richard Gere is all buddy-buddy with Will Patton's character in one scene when just a few minutes earlier, Patton was threatening to kill him. I could go on and on. Not a good movie. "},{"Title":"Too confusing to be scary","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"     *Spoilers ahead...plot details*   When I saw the trailer for this movie in the theater I thought it looked promising, so when I came upon it months later on video I rented it and made my sister watch it with me, thinking it would be scary.   She dozed on and off, while I sat there waiting for the scary part to arrive.  It never came.     What I surmised by the end of the film was that the Mothman merely prophecies death, not causes it.  The wife already had her brain tumor; she could just as easily have died without seeing the moth through the windshield.  Planes crash and bridges collapse routinely, and all the Mothman did was let someone know.  In fact, he could be looked upon kindly because he saved Connie's life, having tipped off John Klein that there would be a disaster on the river.  Even Gordon died benignly, sitting peacefully against a tree.  He was a former drinker...maybe his liver gave out.     So what you have is a movie with a lot of window dressing phones ringing in the night, cars going dead on the road, sketches of black moths in notebooks, Richard Gere shaking his head in puzzlement.  And yet no real suspense and no reason, at least that I can see, for making the movie except that it was supposedly based on a true story.  There are lots of true stories out there that don't merit being made into films.   I'm a real fraidy-cat, and this movie made me yawn.  But it you're a Richard Gere fan, you might appreciate that his silver hair is dyed in this movie and he looks quite a bit younger than in real life.          "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the year and quite a surprise","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is definetly one of the best movies of this year. Attempting to actually tell the story of this movie would be nothing but a waste of time. It will take you to the far edges of reality and twist you so you will not even know if it is true or just an illusion. If only it weren't a true story. If you have read the story and believe that you are witnessing yet another worthless piece of cinema work, you are more than wrong. This movie is well directed, well acted and well written. It is not one of those stupid slasher-like super-natural films. This one actually makes you think and carefully analize every scene, every character, every situation. No glamorous visual effects, although, trust me, you won't even feel the need. Just brilliant film editing, and extremely moody music. Richard Gere does one of his best performances, although i can't compare it with any other film, because honestly, i never thought much of him so i might have missed some of his better ones. ( Trust me, definetly not The Jackal ). Will Patton and Laura Linney make more than just a good impression ( i am on the other hand Mr. Patton's fan, since i am most impressed by actors in supporting roles, they kind of give a movie some flavour ). But yet the best character is the Mothman himself, giving a strange, apocaliptic meaning to the film, and unlike Freddy Krueger-like films, this ... Thing, will send shivers down your spine without really being too graphic about it. What's worst about the whole story is that it really happened. Well maybe here and there, the imagination of the director might, i say , might have tampered with the story, but i still think this is a great script and really none of that tipical Hollywood sci-fi improvement. A simple movie, done with a lower budget than Star Wars Episode II (you know the rest) but accomplishing more than the previously mentioned pre-upgrade to a serie that went too far. It is impossible for high-budgeters like that to just flip-over small but inovative films that give more atmosphere and less eye-poppers.Truly a film worth seeing, but one for which you must keep an open mind, even if you are the non-believer type, and keep you eyes wide open because blink, and you might just lose a key-frame to the entire story. Keep touh with reality but take it further. Give this movie a chance and you won't be disappointed. Because, they don't make them like they used to. Who knows maybe the oscars in 2003 may reward this film, at least for the wonderful editing and for the brilliant director.  "},{"Title":"A chilling story without end","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It was worth seeing. Director Mark Pellington created a very mysterious (true) story that will not be solved at the end. There are many strange puzzles that kept me and my wife during the running time asking why could happen such a thing. This movie remembered THE NINTH GATE and THE SIXTH SENSE that we liked too. Richard Gere was wonderful. We enjoyed this suspenseful film very much and we will add it to our best of dvd collection. We gave 7/10.  "},{"Title":"OK Movie, What's Up with MothMan?","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Fair acting, OK movie, good title.  This movie never seems to get in gear...in some ways it reminded me of Carnival of Souls, but it's only 1/10 as good.  Supposedly, this is based on a real story, but who knows if this is true, and what part of it.  The movie itself is OK (at best) and never really gets off the ground. Basically, anything can happen and who's to say otherwise.  If you're realy bored, or really like Richard Gere then consider this movie.  Otherwise, a nice game of solitaire will do nicely. Cheers! "}{"Title":"Eerie supernatural thriller","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one eerie, creepy supernatural thriller.  The screenplay is very tight, full of intrigue and suspense at every turn.  The presentation by director Mark Pellington is nothing short of superb.  From a visual standpoint, Pellington heightens both the suspense and paranormal feel with some of the best camerawork I have seen in some time.  Each shot is meticulously planned for maximum effect and the editing is phenomenal.  He mixes tight shots with odd perspective shots, extreme close-ups and vistas, zooming in, zooming out, and giving the viewer a visual workout that never lets up.This is a story that teeters on the line between believable and incredible as an entire town seems to be receiving supernatural warnings of an impending disaster.  Not only is it well told, but well acted.Richard Gere seems determined to break his own mold as an actor, taking chances that keep paying off.  Long considered a lightweight pretty-boy with limited breadth, Gere continues to surprise me with his growth as an actor.  I was impressed by the mature performance he gave in `Autumn in New York', shedding his impassive macho image for a more vulnerable character.  This role is an even bigger departure from his standard fare and a better performance.  He gives us a strong and believable performance of a man totally obsessed with understanding the strange events in Point Pleasant and how they might relate to the death of his wife.  If he keeps this up, he is going to start appearing on awards lists.Will Patton also presents us with a phenomenal supporting performance as Gordon, the man fixated on the mothman.  Patton is a fine actor who often plays villainous or offbeat characters.  Here he renders a character that is paranoid to the point of distraction as he is slowly driven insane by the voices he hears.Laura Linney is a throw-in playing a minor role, but she has a couple of compelling scenes with Gere that continue to show her talent.This is a world apart from your standard hack and slash horror flick.  It is intelligently presented and well performed.  I rated it a 9/10.  It makes you wonder, what really happened in Point Pleasant, West Virginia in 1967?  "},{"Title":"Not too shabby...and hints at something great soon to come from Pellington","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I recommend The Mothman Prophecies in spite of Richard Gere (his whole acting range consists of blinking and squinting his eyes I think). It plays like a really good classic episode of the X-Files or a drawn out dramatization during an episode of In Search of.. and is directed by a guy who deserves a bigger budget and a better script, Mark Pellington (see also the underrated Arlington Road.) There's nothing great here (okay, Laura Linney is pretty great, but her role is underwritten) but it makes for a suitable afternoon viewing and there's some Lynchian weirdness going on here that just might creep you out or at the very least keep you mildly entertained. "},{"Title":"Confusing","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie was completely confusing.  I dont understand how its scary.  Something that you can barely see comes and scares people.  And who came to the door at 2am?  I just dont get it... was it the mothman?  was it John Klein?  Were they just imagining it all?  What the hell was the mothman anyway? Was it some kind of virus, or maybe is was a ghost.  I cant exactly explain how, but it was confusing, stupid, and I didnt like it.  "},{"Title":"People common!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is so freaky! All you people think that the ending sucked so much! well they couldn't have exactly changed it because this movie was a true story! God, i don't think you realize how scary this is when the whole thing is happening around the world!! hello?!! I saw this is theaters and i will not see this movie again because it is so scary. the fact is, this is a TRUE STORY! "},{"Title":"absolutely stunning film, delivers everything you want in an intense mind drilling thriller","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i loved arlington road, and before i saw this film i knew that a horror/thriller from Mark Pellington would be something to remember.  when i first saw that richard gere was starring, i had my doubts about this film. i'm used to gere's bland/dry acting, and he has a few bland moments in this movie, but his performance later in the movie is probably the best i've ever seen him.  granted, someone else would have been better suited as the part of John Klein, but gere didn't dissappoint me at all, to say the least. through the entire movie i thought that Laura Linney (she played Connie Mills in this movie) was christina applegate!!! hahahaha!!!  i don't like christina applegate, so i watched her acting closely.  her accent wasn't impressive, but her performance was pretty compelling in the later parts of the movie.this movie will grip you by your temples, and shake you vigorously.  it is a true mind driller.  the directing and editing of this masterpiece is what gives it its grasp on you.  Mark Pellington's use of flash imagery, quick changes in lighting, and intense sounds all mix with the horror of the story to deliver a tension that will drive you mad, but make you glued to till the end.if you have a few bucks, and a free night, go rent this film.  you should watch it at someones house with a really nice entertainment system.  the sound and imagery are pretty sick.*SLIGHT SPOILER BELOW* my favorite part of this movie is that just as you think the movie could possibly end, it comes back 10 fold, and then 100 fold, and then 1000 fold.9.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Here we have the archtypical movie that is at the verge of greatness and collapses to mediocrity. Mothman Prophecies is filled with promise, a neat idea and tons of atmosphere. Yet, every time it appears something will happen, nothing does. The tension builds, builds, builds... and falls flat. It's a frustrating experience. Richard Gere appears out of place, but that's not really a big surprise. After all, ever since his success in Pretty Woman he pretty much rehashes his role over and over again. If you like The X-Files, you may get a kick out of this movie, as it's very similiar in style. Those expecting horror would do well to go elsewhere. "},{"Title":"very slow","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i thought the movie was very slow to begin with and only had a few parts in the film that were worth watching. Those were the car accident and the end where the bridge collapsed.In fact at one stage of the movie, both my sister and I fell asleep! I rate it as 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stellar visuals","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Can't say I was overtly impressed with the actual storyline (the theme is engaging, but the actual thread of actions - not too enchanting. It could be viewed as corny). BUT &#150; the cinematography of this movie is truly something to behold!! Absolutely enchanting; captivating; encompassing. Superb.The lead in car crash was done in a way I've never quite seen. That slow motion swim you feel when something is happening just a little too fast for you to register it all &#150; never captured more effectively on film than it was here. From there, every nuance of the film's creepy premise is exposed with true visionary brilliance by Photographer Fred Murphy. A lot of films depend heavily on smash cuts and other camera tricks to mask weak content. This movie is not an exception in that area (again, the premise is quite engaging, but the content a little flimsy. Which is a shame. There's plenty they could have done with it). However, you'll be immersed in these visuals like few other films. More importantly, the visuals are there to enhance the story, not mask it. That's the difference between &#145;flashy' and effective. The &#145;look' of this film could never be questioned. It's gargantuan in that area. And the final sequence doesn't disappoint - visually. Striking.If atmosphere is your bag &#150; I'd definitely recommend a rental. (I give it a 10 on cinematography. A 7 overall).  "},{"Title":"An underrated, thought-provoking thriller","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Many didn't see The Mothman Prophecies in it's initial theatrical run this year, and that's a shame. They missed out on a real arm-grabber of a thriller.Critics weren't kind either, but any thinking person will appreciate this frightening tale, based loosely on real-life events. Richard Gere is effective as a D.C. news columnist who's life unravels when his wife (Debra Messing of Will & Grace fame) dies; but not before having a close, yet fatal encounter with the monster of the title. His journey leads him to Pt. Pleasant, Virginia where everyone seems to suffer from the heebee-jeebees. Is there a mothlike entity in Pt. Pleasant, and is it an angel of mercy, or an evil demon?The film doesn't divulge, and neither will I. But I like it when a film can allow me as a viewer to decide that for myself. Gere is solid and so is Laura Linney (as the sheriff) who cares deeply for Gere. Incidentally, it's nice to see them paired up again since Primal Fear. I highly recommend this creeper; especially for those who enjoyed Jacob's Ladder or The Sixth Sense. The climax alone, will shock you!Grade B "},{"Title":"prophecies, but why from a mothman ?! )","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It is a nice movie. The screenplay is somehow original, but the horror of the movie and the science-fiction is somehow weak. Also, the light effects are disturbing sometimes. The sound of it is great, good for a horror movie. Nice casting, nice playing. It is worth watching it... "}{"Title":"Worth The Time ? - Read on..","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** ***SPOILERS*** The Film in it self is not bad.. The characters are very real-like, The Actors are good, and The plot. well.. that's just it. It's not ALL bad.. but I'm in The early twenties, and I found it a bit slow, and somewhat Boring. Maybe I was expecting more, something like The Phantoms or The GREAT Stephen King film - Storm Of The Century.. It just didn't DO it for me.*** (Small) Spoiler WARNING! ***- (You were warned)The end scene is really slow and out of reality Scene on a bridge on Christmas Eve, literally LOADS of cars on The poor bridge and John (Gere Character) knows erm.. well.. SOMETHING... I can't really describe it.. it's just , hard for me to see that - THAT many cars could be on The same bridge on Christmas Eve... but NO cars on The roads leading to The bridge. and they're only there Because of a trafic-light Problem there was at least one cop there.. and I bet ALL of them would have liked to come home that night. The cop just wandered helplessly back and forth on The bridge, soo unreal... The Police are Authority Figures.. if a Policeman can't get The cars moving.. no one can..*** End SPOILER ***But. if you're a Richard Gere fan.. and you like long Drama films with a twist of HORROR go ahead. I would never say I wasted my time watching it... it COULD have been better.. and I have indeed seen better ones.I can however recommend better films, in The same genre Storm Of The Century - Stephen King 10/10 Devils Advocate - Keanu Reeves / Al Pachino - 7/10 Dead Zone - Christopher Walken - Stephen King film. */* Haven't seen it for a loong while. can't remember it. Phantoms - Ben Affleck 5.5/10as for Mothman Prophecies - 4/10-Enyeez "},{"Title":"eerie, but not as much as the book was","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i had heard nothing about the events that took place in WV until i started seeing promos for this movie.  being a paranormal fan, i immediately picked up the book to read before seeing the movie.  well, the book is absolutely bizarre (i don't mean that in a bad way, either), and i expected the movie to be the same.  but no matter how creepy and strange the movie is, the book is more so!as far as the movie goes, i do want to state first that I HATE RICHARD GERE. i haven't liked anything i've ever seen him in, i've always thought he was one of the most boring actors in the business.  but he really fit the part well in this movie- i was surprised.  you can read plot summaries elsewhere, so i won't go over all of that.  i will say that the cast is really good, and believable - which is no small task, considering the general weirdness of the events that are portrayed.  when you think that most of the characters were real people (including will patton's character, i think), and that they really went through stranger things than the movie shows, i was incredibly impressed with the authenticity of the acting.i highly recommend this movie, for it's historical purpose if nothing else. it's wonderfully creepy and atmospheric.  and after you see the movie, pick up the book by john keel (i think gere's character was based on keel, who was deeply involved in what happened).   "},{"Title":"Pro's and Con's","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First off, I liked this movie. The things it did well, it really did well. The shooting is excellent and really does it's job creating an atmosphere. The feeling that something just isn't right is conveyed right of the bat. Seeing Gere in a horror movie was in itself a thriller and I think he performed way better than I expected, which is to say well. The first half of this movie is thrilling at it's best. Acting, shooting and scripting is top notch. Unfortunately the ending, the climax, really sucks. For me it was something of an anticlimax. Even though I didn't expect to get or be able to figure out all the answers The answers that were given didn't feel very rewarding. All in all this movie is worth seeing because of the atmosphere it creates. I give it a 7/10. Could have been an 8 or a 9 if the story and the ending were more consistent and rewarding. "},{"Title":"ONE SPOOKY FLICK, BUT","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There is no real cloture unless you are simply willing to accept that there are some things that we can never know.This is an extremely well drawn up story that keep you on the edge of your seat thruout until the ending. Gere's character is a Washington Post reporter who lives thru an auto accident in which both he and his wife see a blurred but horrific vision shortly before her death.We are then taken into a story of precognition, strange deaths, related accidents and some frightening visions which seem to have some sort of connection to a blurred image of a sort of mothman whose appearance seems to forewarn of tragedy.That is about all there is to it except that it really frighteningly well done. Gere, Linney and Patton are excellent.One word of warning if you rent this. The sound editor was on drugs so you will have to keep you hand ready on the remote's volume control unless you really want to go crazy or suffer some hearing damage. "},{"Title":"Too far fetched","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  the beginning was boring,  the middle was getting more exiting,  the end ... too far fetchedthings just didnt add up for this movie "},{"Title":"More Like Thriller, Not Horror","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One of the best movies I have seen all year, except I wasn't scared. It was just a great film. Really keeps you watching not knowing what was going to happen. The only thing scary is that it was based of true events. This is a must see for everyone, great story with terrific acting, with an incredible ending! "},{"Title":"Clear the Confusion//(Great film)","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Let me clear up the confusion for anyone who wants to post who isn't as much as a movie fan in general as me.. First off, this movie was not a horror, nor could it be mistaken by any one as a horror.. It is a suspense, but not so much a thriller suspense, though it is, but more or less a Suspense/Sci-Fi, or more commonly called a Sci-Fi/Thriller, But not a horror... You have to guess through out the whole movie,, that makes it suspense,.. It is based on a true story that is about the super natural,, that makes it Sci-Fi. And it keeps you on the end of your seat,and you never know what will happen next which makes it still suspense, and when a movie has such suspense, anything after that, that scares you, makes it Thriller.. A Thriller is when a movie has horror style stuff to scare someone in it, but is mostly suspenseful.. You see, a suspense can have horror, but a horror, can't be a suspense.. It might all sound confusing, but if you pay attention to films and watch enough of them, you will understand.. Example, Scream, Urban Legends, I Know What You Did Last Summer, are all Suspense Thrillers, Halloween, Friday The 13th, The Amityville Horror, are horrors.. This is because (in case you can't see the difference)In the listed horrors, you the viewer know who the killer/s are, and in the Suspence/Thriller, you have no idea, you pretty much have to guess.. This movie was done very well, a movie taken from real events, a movie that makes you think, one that can be put up there with the Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes, and more obvious, The X Files, only this movie is an adaptation from real life, which makes it an original on it's own, I would give it a 9 or 10.. But don't expect to be scared, it's only PG-13, you will be more or less freaked, or freaked out than scared I think, and there is a difference.. "},{"Title":"Hmmm","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film looked great, the score was excellent, the pacing was great, and the strange nature of the subject matter was interesting. If this director gets paired with the right script, I would expect he could make a very successful film. Richard Gere's presence wasn't offensive as I had feared, though he seemed to me to be out of place in the film. Mr. Gere's hair was also never out of place, even when it should have been. I have a feeling this movie could have turned out to be much better with a different lead and a more abstract ending, but maybe studio executives must have all day to go around ruining films by insisting on certain things necessary for the audience. If they are going to film weird subject matter, why not take a risk and go all the way. "},{"Title":"All in all, made my skin crawl...","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ...and that happens rarely for me in these days of prefab sterile horror films. Im not certain that Gere was the right man for this, but it was interesting to watch this usually-a-romantic lead play in his first horror film. Or is it Sci-Fi? I fell in love with Laura Linney, not so much by her beauty, but with her sense of deep sincere, caring and sorrow for Gere and her Townsfolk. The music was effective, but the end song was rather lame. Also, the MTV-style cuts and tricks got to be annoying. 15 Years ago they were cutting edge. Today they seem pointless, and are over used, even in Automobile commercials. Still, I would give this film a 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Fear = Gere","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There are two main types of fear &#150; fear of the unknown, and fear of the inevitable. Based on real-life accounts of a mysterious figure that appears prior to catastrophies, The Mothman Prophecies combines the two.John Klein (Gere) has his first encounter soon after deciding to buy a house with his beautiful wife, Mary (Messing). During the drive home, the &#145;Mothman' suddenly appears in front of the car, causing Mary to spin the car out of control. Although nobody is killed in the following accident, Mary becomes convinced that something is wrong and sure enough, doctors discover that she has an inoperable brain cancer. Although John never actually saw the apparition, he discovers various sketches in Mary's diary that clearly depict the Mothman. However, as a journalist with The Washington Post, he's not inclined to fixate on the supernatural, instead turning to the very real problem of grief. Two years later, John is driving to an assignment when he suddenly and unaccountably ends up halfway across the state, in a small town called Point Pleasant. His strange transportation isn't the only strange thing happening in the small West Virginian town, as he soon discovers by way of a shotgun greeting from local Gordon Smallwood (Patton). Local policewoman Connie Mills (Linney) is called out to the Smallwood residence to question John, and despite the fact that he has no idea where he is or how he got there, the lack of evidence to support Gordon's claims that he has been stalking the residence over the past three days means that he is set free. The next day, John slowly begins to gather evidence of multiple Mothman sightings  in the town and becomes fixated on determining the nature of the phenomenon, and if possible, averting the unknown yet seemingly inevitable catastrophe that must surely follow. The Mothman Prophecies has gained a great deal of acclaim as being a fantastic horror/suspense film, apart from the long overdue climax, there is very little that is really scary or even spooky about this film. Pellington attempts to play it out as a suspense film, but ultimately the film seems to drag its heels before getting to the point. The film relies heavily on cinematography to create an eerie atmosphere, with odd camera angles, movement and transitions, but with limited effect. Some of the shots are clever, but even these seem to be about cleverness for its own sake rather than supporting the narrative. One scene which is bound to put some viewers off-guard revolves (literally) around Gordon's face to face encounter with the Mothman. Other viewer's will recognise it for what it is &#150; an almost shot for shot reproduction of Richard Dreyfus' encounter of the third kind from Spielberg's classic. Although based on actual events, as recounted in John Keel's book, one gets the impression that serious liberties have been taken in this film adaptation. The journalist and the policewoman develop an unexplained intimacy almost immediately, although it never results in anything that would betray his love and grief for his dead wife. It is in the interpersonal relationships that this film truly fails, a fear of the inevitable that can be neatly summed up with &#145;Richard Gere's ability to act'. If you really want to look at the supernatural, check out the longevity of his career and the huge sums of money he commands for his performances and pit it against his ability to portray human emotions of any kind. Now that's scary. The Mothman Prophecies is an interesting film, but hardly the nail-biting descent into terror that its hype suggests. If it was a work of pure fiction, it would more than likely be entirely discardable. On the upside, the inevitable paperback version of Keel's book that will accompany the film's release should make for some thrilling reading. "}{"Title":"I must have missed the scary parts","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had heard that this movie was supposed to provide some scary moments for the viewer. I guess I was too busy trying to figure out what was going on to be scared. When the movie was over, I tried putting two and two together and sometimes still came up with three. POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD ... Why did the female police officer morph from a take-control character to a much weaker one? Did she have some sort of brain disorder that allowed her to dream her future? Did she actually call Richard Gere's character and invite him over for Christmas dinner? How in blazes did Richard Gere get to that little town in the first place? Why wasn't he arrested when he staked out the house on the second night? How come a sleepy little one-cop town would have a huge traffic jam on a large suspension bridge on Christmas Eve? Why were we subjected to another unrealistic underwater rescue scene (in terms of visibility, the time Gere is able to hold his breath and his immunity from hypothermia)? Did the movie's climax justify the 105 minutes that preceded it? With better writing, editing, sound and directing this could have been a pretty good movie. Of course, they all could. "},{"Title":"Wasted ending","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked most of this movie, very good drama under good directions. But the last 10 minutes just spoiled the whole show.If the director wanted to make a Hollywood-formula thriller, the so-called climax came a bit too late. If the director wanted to make a creative/ stylish movie, the ending was just too commercial to make a good match.I give this movie 6 out of 10. (8 for the first 100 minutes and -2 for the finale) "},{"Title":"Talk about some freaky s***","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is clearly one of the scariest movies that was released in 2002. The direction by Mark Pellingtion is even better than his previous film . Richard Gere plays his lead role superbly and the role seems tailor made for him. The cinematography gives you a dark atompshere and makes chills run up your spine but what makes the film truly scary is that it's based on fact. After I finished watching the DVD all I could say was that's some freaky s***. "},{"Title":"A ghoststory masterpiece","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After watching the really good trailer - probably one of the best I've seen with the tag If you can see it, are you next? If you can't see it, are you safe? I decided that Mothman Prophecies might be a good movie. Still, I doubted that a movie with Richard Gere would be more spooky than romantic, but oh was I wrong. The movie, especially the manuscript is a masterpiece. It's one of the best ghost movies I've seen. American horror movies today seems to tend to show to much gore and to much of the scary monster in the movie. Here we just see a flash of it once or twice and the gore is less then none. Instead of a gory horror movie, which there is way to much of today, Mothman Propherices is a slow (but not ina bad way!) spooky, and very well done movie.  "},{"Title":"Hauntingly frightening.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those films you can walk out of and still be thinking about it hours later. While the film itself is a scary piece of work, the thing that makes it even more terrifying is the based on true events tag line the movie sports. I am a huge horror fan and know all the tricks of the genre inside and out. I know exactly when a scare is coming and can tell who's going to bite it half an hour before they do. So naturally, nothing much scares me. This film did. Not because it has jolting music, false scares, and a maniac on the loose. It has none of that. Instead, it has an atmosphere and feel that gets under your skin and makes your flesh crawl. I know next to nothing of the real-life Mothman legends, and have never even seen anything on the subject until this movie, and now it's absolutely terrifying to know that it could all be true. This movie is a fine example of how you can take a society's paranoia and fears and turn them into a terrific movie. The film deals with things we all wonder about and are fascinated and scared of. Life after death, the idea of a higher being, foretold disaster, and strange events. All this and the movie is directed well, too. Very neat camera angles and near perfect cinematography. Perhaps the film is so scary because the subject matter itself is terrifying enough, but whatever the reason, it's just downright freaky. Usually, movies that are tough to figure out and have an unexplained and weird plot tend to push viewers away by overdoing it and making them work too hard for the answers. This movie doesn't give you answers but also doesn't expect you to find them, either. You're not supposed to understand what's going on, because it can't be understood. Not by us, at least. You can draw your own conclusions but there's no right or wrong, which is the beauty of it. The film also keeps your interest until the end, which is a big payoff. I won't give the ending away, but let's just say it's a great climax with plenty of action. When the end comes you should be scared out of your wits. Not by what you see on screen, but what you don't see. You should be scared about the doors in your mind that this film will open. And just some advice don't watch it alone at night with the lights out. You might not get to sleep. "},{"Title":"Creepy, Suspenseful, Great!","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Film rating 8 I bought the soundtrack well before watching this film. And when I finally saw the images that accompanied that beautiful score I was amazed and enthralled. I couldn't take my eyes off this film. I could almost feel the presence of the Mothman when this movie made the hairs on the back of my neck stand up. See it with an open mind.  "},{"Title":"Extremely Interesting and Involving","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I recently saw this movie and very much enjoyed it, though my husband did not.  I haven't felt compelled to write about the movies I reviewed, but this one I did.  Why?  Because I think my husband misunderstood the movie.This is a retelling of events which actually occurred in a little town called Point Pleasant, West Virginia.  While the movie updates the timeline from 1967 to the present, it does not dramatize or try to make more of what happened in that sleepy little town than the facts.  That's all the movie does, is retell the facts, which is exactly what the book does.  This is not a movie that says it has all the answers and wraps up the meaning of the events in a nice package for you at the end of the movie.  It does not tell the viewer what to make of the sightings of the Mothman, what to make of the prophesies, what to make of John's extraordinary journey that first brings him to Point Pleasant.  Rather, at the end of the movie the viewers are left in the same situation the characters themselves are trying to figure out what exactly happened, who or what the Mothman was, and what the events mean to the human society. "},{"Title":"Specific Taste!","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A film like The Mothman Phrophecies is often a very risky endeavour - to re-create events from a string of police reports and rumour is not often the best basis for a film. Like many who have gone before Mothman offers nothing new to its thriller/horror genre and certainly comes up short in terms of telling a story.The movie is literally a series of events, one after the other that have some kind of intangable relevance that often appear on the surface to be totally unrelated. Whilst causing some honestly intruiging moments and some rather ingeniously generated suspense it often becomes confusing and your left asking What does this have to do with it. When you trace the events of the film back in your head the plot becomes as intangable as the concept of the Mothmen explained midway through the film.Aside from the often pointless script and resulting confusion the film is well shot and constructed and clever in its presentation of suspense. You are concerned for the characters on screen and there are some genuinely freaky elements to the production. If anything this film is a pre-cursor to some freakish nightmare you are going to experience not long after going to sleep that night after seeing it. It is also as unexplainable as any nightmare you could have.It really is at the end of the day another film in a long list of true event thirllers and it is an average one at that. Your left with too many questions and not enough answers. "},{"Title":"Creepy","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie did keep my attention. Bizarre. And I haven't felt a chill run down my spine (from a movie) in a long time like a few scenes did in this movie. Apart from story, plot, blah blah blah...it WAS creepy. And you have to admit, that's fun. Worth my money. "},{"Title":"Good start, good development, bad ending","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really had great expectations while going to see this movie. First, the trailer was captivating and rather scary. Second, the director, Mark Pellington, previously directed Arlington Road, a wonderful thriller, one of my favorites of all times.So, I was rather sorry to exit the theater thinking nice, but.... And is a big BUT.  The problem is that this movie really has interesting premises and a good plot, BUT it does not end!!! I have seen very positive reviews of this movie, but how can you tell a movie is great when you do not know how it ends? There's no explanation, a lot of questions unanswered and some things you can't simply put in place.  Yes, you get some scary moments, good performances by Richard Gere and Will Patton and, after all, a good story. You only miss an important piece of the puzzle.7 stars out of 10 "}{"Title":"Supernatural, thoughtful thriller about moth like creatures who prophesy disasters. Well directed with effective sound. 3 Flys Out Of Five","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is pretty spooky and not an entirely unlikely film for the likes of  Richard Gere (The Hair). The Hair's best film I'd say, with the probable exceptions of Pretty Woman and An Officer And A Gentleman, was Internal Affairs (1990) in which he played a very nasty cop. Gere was good as a baddie. In The Mothman Prophecies he's again thankfully got a part with a bit of meat on it. Gere plays John Klein who's wife dies horribly claiming she saw something very strange. Two years later Klein finds himself mysteriously in Point Pleasant, West Virginia receiving strange phone calls and fielding probing questions from pretty local cop Connie Parker (Laura Linney).Connie has been hearing strange stories from the locals about strange creatures and events which recall dead Klein's wife's tales. Events escalate to what was for me a surprising climax. But then I hadn't looked up particular event that occurred in Point Pleasant, W.Va. in 1966/67.The Mothman Prophecies is very nicely filmed and directed by Mark Pellington (Arlington Road). The music/sound is particularly effective. It isn't a horror film, more a supernatural, thoughtful thriller, a grown up X files, and does provide a reasonably diverting entertainment.3 Very Big Moths Out Of Five  "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie is very good, the trailer had already caught my attention and the movie kept it up all the way to the end. The movie is not scarry, but it is interesting, intrequine and even though it doesn't answer all the questions about this strange phenomena  it does flow all the way to the end. Richard Gere and the other actors do a very good performance.I have decided to buy the book of John A. Keel, which I think will answer some questions and open new ones.I suggest to go an see it. Tom "},{"Title":"What Do You See? A rather neat, eerie thriller is what.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  `The Mothman Prophecies' is the story of Washington Post reporter John Klein (Richard Gere). Klein's wife died of a brain tumour, following an inexplicable accident, in which she claimed to have seen a bizarre creature. Two years later, Klein mysteriously turns up in Pleasant, West Virginia, where he meets people who claim to have seen the same strange creature his wife saw before she died. From there a series of bizarre events unfold, wrapping Klein deeper into the mysterious legend of the mothman and the terrible prophecies he brings.From reading the IMDB reviews there seems to be a love or hate relationship with this movie. The people who dislike the movie claim to find it rambles about aimlessly, and goes nowhere. The advocates of the movie say that the movie's sharp visual style is eerie, creepy and captures the unexplained mystery of what the Mothman was. I lean towards the latter camp.There are problems with `The Mothman Prophecies'. The plot is severely lacking, and so the story is more a collection of events, strung together through some smart directing. The film ends with a climatic, but inconclusive set-piece and the pacing of the movie is such that some trimming, of perhaps twenty minutes, could have been advisable. This meandering is the film's biggest flaw, and is why the movie received a lot of detractors, as the mystery of the Mothman is never solved &#150; it's left open ended, principally because the real-life events upon which it's based were never explained either.What saves the movie from being a mess is the sharp direction of Mark Pellington, who injects atmosphere throughout the movie. It's achieved through a variety of techniques &#150; a muted soundtrack creates the eerie element of the movie. Soft lighting soaks the town in mood. Sharp inter-cuts of the mothman lend to the ambivalence of the creature &#150; we're never sure what it is, only ever the hints of what it could be. These all help enhance moments, such as the many strange phone calls Klein receives, transcending them from laughable events to genuinely David Lynch moments.`The Mothman Prophecies' treads a very thin line from leaden pacing to being creepy. It won't work with those expecting to be handed answers in a typical dogmatic Hollywood style. For those who can appreciate Pellington's excellent work with the material &#150; which is what makes the movie &#150; they may find `The Mothman Prophecies' a somewhat uneven, but certainly chilling, thriller. 7.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Good movie.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is a very good movie, with top notch elements all the way around. From the performances of Richard Gere, Laura Tinney, and even Debra Messing (even though she's not in it a whole hell of a lot), to the good plot, a horror one that actually has a message, and yes, actually a good one!  Richard Gere is great as always in this supernatural thriller, playing a recent widower who is drawn mysteriously into a web of the unknown in a small town that is plauged by the mothman. Laura Tinney, whom I have never seen before in a film, is a very good actress and her performnace in this was top notch. Debra Messing too is a great actress (both serious like here and comical). The plot only had one or two not so hot things about it, but it was a great one. I have no idea why some of the critic reviews I've seen from it blabbed on and on about plot holes, while I'm on the subject of critics, I know that 99.9% of them have no clue how hard it is to write a working story. Anyway, the plot is very creppy and very good, and delivers a very good message, and The Mothman Prophecies is just a good movie. On another note, this film didn't copy of The X-Files, even though it has a very X-File-y feel to it, the book's been around since the 70's. Concluding, this was good movie, defintly worth viewing. With incredible performances and a great plot. If you love horror movies, thrillers, or just movies with a message, go see this. "},{"Title":"Promises not held&#133;","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  &#133;The movie starts mundane and creepy enough, like the  director's very good Arlington Road&#133; but kinda loosesmomentum  it's a pretty long two hours indeed. The creepiness isstill obvious, along with one-liners sufficient to give a motivation tothe supernatural events while not giving the mystery away. Butunlike Arlington road, the superfluous spectacular ending is astep off, giving an all this for this feeling and turning the movieinto an overblown X-files episode, as some already pointed out the whole deal could have been told in 30 mn without the padding.Besides, Richard Gere is not strong enough as an actor to makeus root for him  a shame, especially considering Will Paxton'sperformance. All in all, not a film to disown for Pellington - onemight wonder what a less skilled director would have messed up !- but a flawed movie which misses both points, either as horrormovie and psychological study. Good mood piece though. "},{"Title":"In some ways, wow...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went into this expecting neither gain nor loss.  I just hoped I didn't waste 90 or so minutes.  This greatmovie/almostfilm was a cool surprise.I knew the initial story.  It was one of those books that, if you really, really want to believe...then read this...kind of things.  In my opinion, it was written much better than any episode of In Search Of from the 70's, but had the same message.  Luckily, that's where the similarities between the story and movie stopped.This movie was directed very cleverly.  It was shot with an expert eye. The actors performed well above par.  For something that looked like Hollywood hogwash in the previews, it turned out to be pretty decent.Sure, it's not going to remembered as a classic, but it's very solid.  I would like to add that it's one of Richard Gere's more professional performances.This is absolutely something worth checking out on rental.  But please, if you wish to enjoy it, make sure that you watch it in quiet company, in a dark and still setting.  "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE strong contender for MOVIE OF THE YEAR!!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A fantastic display of acting as always by these two life - affirming actors. Gere and Linney make such a realistic partnership between them on stage. As in 'Primal Fear' neither of them outweighs the other, the perfect balance to go with a very good screenplay. Feisty Linney has what it takes to go up to a guy and grab him by the balls! Cunning Gere has the suave, sophisticated, smooth action of a man that can get anything he wants. Some of you may be expecting a head-on battle of wills between these two but you will be pleasantly surprised... Here we see a more emotional side to them but nonetheless a superb performance with Gere playing the Grief-stricken reporter, and Linney playing the country girl wearing the badge. It's surprising how well the relationship during the film develops under the circumstances but I suppose we all need someone to depend in at times of hardships. I'm sure that many people wouldnt mind depending on either of these two and with their stunning qualities they give you the support you need in this MUST SEE contender for movie of the year.  "},{"Title":"Rather scary but unsatisfying","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Another supernatural phenomenon-movie. It starts of as a rather conventional horror movie and the first half of the film had me on the edge of my seat (although, to be fair, I'm rather susceptible to the atmosphere of horror movies). But I got the impression that the director lost the plot about halfway through the film, the problem being that he does not know whether he wants The Mothman Prophecies to be The Sixth Sense or rather Jeepers Creepers. Even though the (rather foreseeable) ending ties most things up, you're still left having to think about the film afterwards. But I have to say that I'm not sure if the director leaves things intentionally unexplained or if it is because he couldn't work out a satisfactory explanation for the events in the film. This is probably also the reason why I had the feeling that it dragged on too long, while the audience is waiting for an explanation. Also some of the editing and camera work, while adding to the atmosphere in the beginning, becomes a bit tedious as the film goes on. That said, The Mothman Prophecies is still entertaining and partially scary. The film also scores a couple of bonus points by not including a full-grown love story, despite the presence of Richard Gere. Make that 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A thriller that uses atmosphere rather than fx to create horror.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great thriller that uses atmosphere and plot twist to build up suspense and horror rather than relying on cheesy special effects. Even my friend who hates Horror flicks loved this movie. It's acted beautifully with a strong male and female lead. It really makes you wonder if the Mothman Prophesies are true. X-Files fans will probably notice a few parallels in this film as well. "},{"Title":"Not bad, and fairly well made but lacking something(s).","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Put simply it's a pretty weak subject which doesn't *really* merit this movie. But if you ignore that fact and switch your intelligence off you may quite enjoy it. The subject is based on apparent truth focusing on the 'mothman' myth, which, of course, we've all heard of (!) However, I kinda forgot it was fact and started enjoying it as fiction like an X-Files episode, albeit made with a bit more Hollywood zest. I thought Gere was reasonable as Klein but he definitely lacks charisma. On a side note, it was an interesting movie choice for him. Very far away from his usual genre. As for the actual story, the way it is told it is clearly intended to have a psychological edge in a way the X-Files totally lacks. And in places it works quite well. But sometimes it seems contrived, and although there are a lot of things that are never explained (This is truth after all) it doesn't take away from the fact this is frustrating in a movie. There are also certain fundamental flaws in certain aspects, one of which had me staring in disbelief... Overall, I would wait to see this on rental as it doesn't really feel like good value for money, but *did* (In my opinion) do its job of entertaining.Just don't expect too much.  "}{"Title":"TERRIBLE","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The worst movie i have ever seen. Waste of time, anyone who says to see it should go and see a real movie. I wouldn't wipe #$* with this film!Scary...Ha!  If the scariest thing you have ever seen was a phone ringing without it being plugged in, you need to get a life. "},{"Title":"Good but NOT great.","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the film, but there was something missing. It did not grab me and hold on to my attention. There were times when I considered leaving the theater, but there were enough moments that kept me put. Bottom line Go see it but don't expect too much because you will be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Right ingredients, wrong mix","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The beginning of this movie is quite good... but goes nowhere... There is no point to the story. The movie perpetually hesitates between a love story, a lost-love-ghost story, an horror film and some David Lynch-like don't even try to understand quirks. The film concludes with a very deceiving ending, a trite happy-ending that has not much to do with the remaining of the movie. Photography, actors, and sfx are good but not outstanding. The soundtrack is really good but lose its effectiveness through excessive use and never offering a real pause to the auditor. "},{"Title":"VERY SCARY","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was definitely one of the most scariest ones I have seen in a long time.  Very, very gripping suspense.  Although the movie started out moving at a slow pace, it did pick up.  And when it did, it REALLY did. Man, was it freaky!  The movie had me guessing throughout the whole thing, but not like other movies.  It was one of those movies that you are wondering how everything ties in together, but of course it all ties together in the last scene.  Overall, I am very pleased with the plot of the movie.  Go see it! Especially if you like to be scared!  "},{"Title":"The best sitting on the edge of your seat flick","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wow! After reviewing the trailer, I thought, sure, sure here's another attempt at a fact-filled scary movie. Was I ever surprised at the outcome. This movie opened my eyes to the supernatural. Falling asleep for the first couple of nights after seeing it, was almost impossible. I don't go to many movies at the theater anymore, due to costs and the quality of movies, but this one was worth every penny. Not only was it well acted but it makes a person think. I've done a lot more research on the Mothman sightings because of this movie and I realize now that we may not be alone. (Not to quote supernatural movies)I recommend this movie to the truly open-minded people out there. ENJOY!  "},{"Title":"Is Amazed...","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Why is it we always fear what we don't understand? This movie is a fabulous example of exactly that.  People driven to the edge by a need to know..a need to understand.  Sometimes, its just enough to know that it exists. "},{"Title":"A competent X file","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I would have enjoyed this a whole lot more if it had been an X-Files story, with the X-Files cast. That aside, I thought it was pretty well-made, more in spite of Richard Gere rather than because of him. I am quite frankly amazed that his film career has extended so long, because he really is a very poor actor, and has little of the charisma of other screen 'heartthrobs' such as Gibson, Redford, etc. In this movie, however, he was quite passable, perhaps because the story is based on truth, whereby a sort of non-actor can suffice when you know it's really quite factual. Him aside, there is a good atmosphere, and sense of the mysterious. Alan Bates arrived just as the plot was cooling down. His excellent small role got the film back on track. Overall, it was worth the admission price, and had a few 'jumpy' moments. I still prefer the X-Files, though! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Eerie!!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie, was wonderfully shot and used some absolutely astounding use of cinematography with great attention to detail. For example, the use of the moth design in ordinary, arbitrary circumstances, like while Gere is in the police station(after just missing his dead wife!), the design of the police logo/badge on the window looked like a moth and also the electricity masts were in the shape of moths. Extremely eerie.Personally this movie struck a cord, especially when Bate's character stated that why should these beings explain themselves to us as we are not likely to explain ourselves to cockroaches!The dream sequences were all too familiar as I'm sure many people have experienced all too realistic dreams where it seems someone or something is trying to communicate with you and saving you from a dying dream.I can't say I loved the movie but it definitely made me think about the prophecies and if that was the sole reason, then it obtained its objective.Recommendable!! "},{"Title":"Shouldn't have been made in to a movie","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The title sums it up. It shouldn't have been made in to a movie. It wasn't very scary either. If it hadn't of been true it wouldn't have been scary at all.It had the feeling that it was building up to something, like the Others did. Whereas the Others had a great twist, this had nothing, except some good special effects.It's a shame when real life events get turned in to a bad movie. It deserves it's place along side made for tv movies.  "},{"Title":"So, where is the mothman?","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have watched this movie with high expectations. For what I knew about it, it could have been something like Communion. I didn't know anything about the Mothman or about what really happened back then. And for what it's worth I don't feel enlightened now either.<Spoilers>The whole movie I expected the Mothman to appear and make its prophecies (as indicated in the title), but I could not spot it. The only appearance at the start of the movie left me left me guessing. What did I see. Was it a man, a monster, a supernatural being or simply the taillights of another car. Do not expect this to be answered. The Mothman will not appear again.Of course this might have been intentional. As seen from the point of view of R. Gere's character this whole movie could also have been a documentary about the disturbing visions of one man totally gone nuts. The whole story is thin like cigarette paper, and the conclusion didn't make sense to me.</Spoilers>Although I believe that this movie portrays the actual circumstances of the Mothman appearances quiet closely, a little more interpretation to what the Mothman might be or what it actually wants would have served this movie a very well.My Advice avoid "}{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Interesting film, not as scary as some critics make out. Good performance from Gere but you would think he would have vetoed the bedroom closet scene with his wife. I thought typecasting!! My main criticism of the film was probably its length...long scenes do not equal suspense. At least 20 minutes could have been chopped off without any major loss of narrative. Still worth a look. "},{"Title":"Good spooky movie, and it's based on true events.","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"                            ******SPOILERS******When John Klein and his wife, Mary Klein are in a car crash, Mary ends up dying, but before she dies, she claims she saw something just before the crash and even draws pictures of this strange 'thing.' John ends up trying to find out what Mary saw when he ends up in a small West Virginia town, where locals also say they've seen strange things, including sightings of strange creatures called the 'mothmen.' One local resident, Gordon apparently has even met the mothman and phone calls from the mothman who calls 'him/herself', Ingrid Cold have even been made to Gordon and John himself. John also becomes friendly with local police officer, Connie, but danger lurks for all of them in this small town.The Mothman Prophecies is a good sci-fi thriller. Considering this movie is based on a true-story, it of course makes it even more creepy then it would of makes been if it wasn't true. Could this really be an alien invasion or even an angel who could be Mary Klein. After all Mary was seen by Connie after she died and John did end up saving Connie, even though it seemed Connie was meant to die herself. Sometimes you think some of the things about Mary could be in Johns mind and did Gordon really see the mothman. It really does make think, that's for sure. Richard Gere, Debra Messing and Laura Linney all give good performances in the movie. I enjoyed The Mothman Prophecies. It was interesting to watch, especially as this was based on a true-story and these things really happened. I recommend it, especially for sci-fi and thriller lovers. "},{"Title":"SCARIEST HORROR FILM IN A LONG WHILE","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  (POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD)Let me first say that this horror movie is succesful because like many innovative horror films over the years it doesn't need blood or violence to scare it's audience. It's horror is very subtle at times and like any good horror film it's scary because it spooks rather than shocks.Richard Gere has one of his best roles in a long time and he does extremely well. This is rather like a big screen version of the X-Files but without Mulder or Scully. Without giving too much away lets just say that when you watch it you're not sure exactly what is going on.This is probably the shortest review I've ever done for a film but The Mothman Prophecies is one of those films where I am reluctant to say too much. I have included a spoiler warning at the top but I am afraid that if I do go into detail about the plot then it will spoil it for some people. All I will say is get yourself down to the nearest cinema and watch this film-you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"High Strangeness","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The story of the Mothman is a haunting one.  It appeared to the townsfolk of Point Pleasant, West Virginia, in 1966, and suddenly a lot of unexplained and unexplainable things happened, climaxing with the collapse of the Silver Bridge over a year later.  This strange tale provides the basis for The Mothman Prophecies.  This movie is chilling, with an eerie tone that sets the perfect mood.  The viewer feels this eerie vibe, and has a sort of Oz factor of his or her own.  The Mothman itself is seen only briefly, as a shocking creature, and you can't tell if it's real or imaginary.  The only problem I have with the movie is that the story does not take place in 1967, when the actual incident occurred.  I don't know why, I just would have preferred that bit of accuracy.  And I don't know if the Mothman has ever been spotted outside of West Virginia, or before or after the tragedy of 1967, as the movie implies.  But the movie just might haunt you, just as the real story of the Mothman has haunted our reality. "},{"Title":"What a Terrible Movie","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie was pretty darn bad. The ending made you feel like you wasted your time waiting for the end. Not sure what the deal was with the static phone calls, or for that matter,...what the hillbilly with the shotgun had to do with anything. In general,.....even though the filming and acting was good,...it needed a good script. "},{"Title":"A model of restraint","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not as scary as some would have you believe, still very much worth a couple of hours of your time. There is an undercurrent of loss, of short-circuited dreams and plans, that filters this films horror content; a mood of pity looms far larger in the mix than fear. Here's the spoiler part If I came away from this film with anything that will last, it is probably a thought-provoking kernel derived from a few lines Alan Bates speaks. Gere asks him in one scene if anyone can really tell the future. Bates points to window washers several stories above them and says that if there was a wreck about to occur ten blocks away, the washers would know it before the two of them would, but that that wouldn't mean they were fortune-tellers. This gives me a wacky physical perspective on omniscience I had never had before, and I think of it now from time to time, still. (Are flying insects more prescient than we?) Not a life-changing movie (one hopes not anyway) but a fine mood piece. The makers get special gold stars and tshirts for not trying to milk the shock/gore thing to death for the billionth time. Nine stars. "},{"Title":"Sorry, this one's a stinker","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In 1980 I read John Keel's book The Mothman Prophecies, and when I first heard about this movie two years ago, I was excited. My letdown at the film was rather extreme. Confused, muddled, pointless and pretentious, this is not an example of effective storytelling. 99 percent of what was in the book was left out of the movie, yet, incredibly, John Keel himself said he LIKED this thing when he saw it at a premier. Poor Laura Linney's talents are wasted yet again.  "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and creepy, but flawed.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I first read John Keel's book in 1975, and re-read prior to seeing this film.  One the plus side, the updating of the story from 1966-67 and change of central characters did not diminish the story; the film's direction created a real sense of foreboding and an almost palpable creepiness; the actors did a fine job, with no sign of tongue-in-cheek. The dreariness of the West Virginia locale was right on target, adding to the overall feel of oppression.On the down side, the omission of a significant aspect of Keel's documentation of these events, the prevalence of UFOs and strange men-in-black episodes, left the film with an incomplete and somewhat muddled treatment.  The result was a movie that suggested a more vague, supernatural origin for the events than was derived from Keel's work (as well as from other expositions on Mothman, such as the late Gray Barker's 'The Silver Bridge').While the movie could have been better had it stuck more closely to the source, it does provide a respectable effort at depicting a truly strange series of inexplicable events.  For fans of the genre, it is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Harmless","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not the scariest movie in the world, by any stretch of the imagination, but I didn't have that preconception about it before I saw it, so I wouldn't have been disappointed anyway. Gere is perfectly excellent as the troubled Washington Post reporter John Klein and there is a perfectly credible supporting cast to boot. On the whole and without giving too much away the scariest part of the film was wondering was Klein would unnearth next, rather than anything else. It is intruiging that it's based on a true story (well, true as it can be, given Hollywood directives) which certainly helps. This was another fact I was unaware of prior to viewing the picture.Scariest part of the film was 'that phone call' he nearly had with his wife. "},{"Title":"Fascinating","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a wild ride.  It's fascinating and really makes you think. The story is really out-there and would be unbelievable if it weren't known to be based on true events.  The cast is great -- Richard Gere is convincing as the grieving widower who stumbles onto a mystery, Laura Linney as the local law enforcement who is trying to solve the mystery, but knows there must be a logical explanation.  The rest of the cast is filled out with convincing locals and D.C. movers & shakers.  A great casting job.After seeing the movie, I came home, got online and went to the movie's website to read about the true stories it's based on.  It's that kind of movie, it makes you want to know more.On a more humorous note, the friend I saw the movie with picked it because she thinks Richard Gere is hot.  After the movie she said, I kept forgetting to look at Richard Gere because it was so interesting.  There you go! "}{"Title":"Not as good as expected","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  No offense to the people who found this movie both scary and well just plain good, I thought that it did not live up to its expectations. The trailers I saw for this movie made it look like a real good horror movie, but I was disappointed when I saw it to find out that it was one of the least scary movies I have ever seen. But however, I did enjoy the warnings said in the movie (for those of the people who have seen it, you know what I'm talking about). They were quite interesting and in a way suspicious. 'The Mothman Prophecies' is not at all what it is expected. "},{"Title":"X-files episode = Mothman Prophecies","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Finally glad to see Richard Gere in a half decent movie.  I believe this was similar to an X-files episode, and is a definitely a must see if you love the series.  For those of you that don't, I think you will still be entertained in this chilling story.  "},{"Title":"Proves that an excellent story and solid acting isn't everything.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Usually when I view a movie, I look for light in two places acting and story. That mainly makes a good movie, right? Wrong. I'm not saying The Mothman Prophecies is utter garbage, but you certainly feel gipped when the credits begin to scroll down the screen. Richard Gere displays some curiously awesome acting capabilities in this film, as does Laura Linney. These two have some really good stuff for us to admire, but that and the interesting, supposedly true story are the only things going for it. What makes this movie not-too-hot? Mainly the disjointedness in the way the characters and plot moves are played out. I do admire Pellington's pacing and subtleties, but it eventually overwhelms the story's central core a mysterious figure is seen in a West Virginia town, giving residents hints of future disasters. It all eventually sinks into a long, sometimes boring foray into how a movie can go wrong. The characters never seem to talk about this figure. Instead, they begin to seem like they're talking about their cousin's DUI charge. See it and find out for yourself.6/10  "},{"Title":"Great movie, but not what you think.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, but I disagee that it is a horror film. It has some genuinely creepy moments and some scenes that make you jump, but I don't think the movie sets out to scare anyone.  What it does do, is make you think.I like any movie that does not wrap everything up in a neat little package. One of the biggest complaints about this movie is that it leaves many questions unanswered.  Duh!  I don't like it when a writer or director dumbs down the audience by insisting that we need every plot element explained to us.***Minor Spoilers***The Mothman Prophecies makes you think a lot about what is going on.  What is the Mothman?  Did Klein's wife really appear to him and the sheriff? Did the Mothman cause the events or simply predict them?***Spoilers Over***I would highly recommend this film to everyone.  However, do not go and see it expecting a straight-up horror films.  There are some genuinely chilling moments however.I would give this film an 8 on a scale of 1 to 10.-WizardOfGore "},{"Title":"Odd, but in a fascinating manner (some spoilers)","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very odd, but usually compelling Horror picture. Imagine a horror film where the title character barely appears (and may in fact be a figment of the reporter's imagination). Taking the legend of The Mothman from the past and transporting it to the near present, the writer & director made one interesting choice. Even more fascinating, is how they use the Mothman legend to play off a man's grief over the loss of his wife. Whenever we see or hear The Mothman, it is a shadowy or ghostly presence. It almost doesn't matter if it exists, as long as the characters and the town believe it does. This strategy works for the most part, though the last third drags a bit. The character of a paranormal researcher is a hoary old cliche, and the director seems to try to bring a sullen sense of dread to even the most mundane event, conversation or situation. It comes dangerously close to self-parody at times. Still, this fascinates for the most part, and Richard Gere turns in perhaps his most complex and riveting performance of his career. Too bad, it probably won't be recognized as so, because it's in a horror film.What I like most about the film is that it, along with last summer's THE OTHERS & SESSION 9, are rare examples of horror films which take the subject matter seriously - not just a jumping off point for a string of wiseacre jokes and uncalled-for bloodletting. "},{"Title":"Creepy, but not very scary","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Disclosure I live in the town where this was filmed (drove over that bridge every day on my way to high school).That said, probably the only reason I went to see it was because it was filmed at my hometown. I'm not a suspense/horror/scifi fan. Still, I found the story to be fun enough--and creepy enough--to be worth it.It's about two hours long--and I mean long. About an hour and a half into it, you can pretty much guess what's going to happen, and you're just waiting for it to actually happen. Of course, once it does happen, it's cool, but the whole thing bogs down in about a half-hour's worth of nonsensical sidetracks.The Positives it's not your ordinary horror flick. There's no monster to root for or against; the ending is open-ended, and allows you to believe whatever you want to believe; there's no cheap screams, flashes, or other gimmicks to scare you, it's plain old creep-you-out dialogue that drives you nuts; and the acting is great. Laura Linney, especially, is a great actress, and I hope to see much, much more of her in the future. The score is excellent.The Negatives The entire film seems to be a blur. The Mothman has red eyes, and you'll see those damned red eyes in every transition, every cut-shot, every non-subtle moment it can be crammed in there. Transitions are blurry and irritating, and no two shots go from one to the other without some painful use of red blurs, random designs, and other bad-for-the-eyes material. The aforementioned open-ended ending may leave some people unsatisfied, and I'm sympathetic; it's almost like they blew their budget and had to shore up real quick.On net, this movie is worth seeing. Be prepared to be bored for a while, though; many scenes around the three-quarters mark just kind of drag, but it's all worth it in the end. If you're going for a fright, go somewhere else; see it if you like to be assaulted with creativity. "},{"Title":"Worthwhile viewing for the Keel fan","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Having read The Mothman Prophecies as a kid over twenty years ago (and many times since), I was worried when I read an early online summary of the film's plot. It sounded like they had rehashed it into a typical mainstream Hollywood flick, the type I go out of my way to avoid. Add to that the fact that Richard Gere was starring, and I was prepared for disaster. I was pleasantly surprised to see the film and find it  thoroughly absorbing and well-done, if occasionally marred by overwrought direction.The film looks and sounds great, with genuine chills that are often enhanced by having read the book. For example, when Gere's car breaks down and he starts to walk toward Will Patton's home, he hesitates. In the book, Keel describes a fear zone he encountered one night while investigating the Mothman, an area which, though undefined by anything visible, created a feeling of dread when he stepped into it. This is not explained in the film, but it still works.In the film of my imagination, I would take a more gonzo approach, chucking in as many elements of the book as I could. But as the book describes something creepy and astonishing on virtually every page, I can see why a major studio release would reject that approach. I would have liked to have seen the ubiquitous MIB represented, but perhaps the filmmakers were afraid it would draw the viewers' thoughts to the irreverence of Men in Black, a film about as different in tone from TMP as can be imagined.The movie can be ponderous at times, and I thought it was amusing that they traced the Mothman name to some earlier civilization or something like that (it was in fact a joke based on the TV show Batman, very popular at the time of the Point Pleasant sightings). The performances are well-done (I would have enjoyed more scenes with Alan Bates), the climactic scenes are gripping, and the intelligent portrayal of unexplainably synchronous events is remarkable for a flick intended for mass consumption.I'm glad to see this one is getting good word-of-mouth on the IMDb, and I hope it compels fans to check out the other writings of Keel---maybe the demand will bring his Eighth Tower back into print.  "},{"Title":"Ahhhh!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I liked the treatment of this material much better on the x-files.  This movie was sooooooo slow.  If this was the thinking man's horror movie, then thought is way overrated.  The cast tried hard, that was obvious, but there simply wasn't enough material for a feature film. "},{"Title":"A fun, thrilling romp...","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES / (2002) B+By Wes AlexanderIf you look past the silly tagline of this film (`If you can't see it, are you safe? If you can see it, are you next?') and see the film for what it is, you might just enjoy THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES.Richard Gere plays Washington Post reporter John Klein. His is happily married to his wife, Mary (Debra Messing). The two are driving home from house hunting one night and Mary sees something. She freaks out and crashes the car. While she's in the hospital, they learn that she has a tumor on her brain. She dies shortly after. Skip ahead two years. John is driving to Richmond, Virginia to interview the mayor. While driving, his car breaks down in a town called Pleasant Point, West Virginia. How he got there is a mystery. He starts in investigate strange occurrences about a moth-like creature that his wife drew a picture of right before she died. John becomes friends with one of the town's cops, Connie Parker (Laura Linney) and from there, the two must figure out what is going on.I'll get this out of the way first True, the ending of the film does not tell you exactly what has happened and what the Mothman really is. But, that is up to us to decide. We get to figure out our own ending and try and come up with our own theories about these strange occurrences.  Also, the film is said to be `based on true events.' This is accurate in the way that people have claimed that they've seen this creature.THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES was a really enjoyable movie. It has an eerie tone and Gere is wonderful in it. About half way through the movie, John has a phone conversation with the `Mothman' and this is, perhaps, the film's best scene. It keeps you on the edge of your seat from the time John picks up the phone till the time he hangs up.Director Mark Pellington (ARLINGTON ROAD) sets up the visuals splendidly. His nice work of camera movements really adds a lot to the film. It looks and sounds great. The film is great to look at with its mix of creepy illusions and excellent camera shots.THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES is a fun, scary, engrossing ride that will give everyone something to talk about. (And will no doubt cause hundreds of internet junkies something to write about.)  "},{"Title":"Nice, creepy fun.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I sit and I wonder, out of all the horror films that I have seen, why is it that only the PG-13 flicks creep me out. I think it's because out of all of the new wave of PG-13 horror flicks (The 6th Sense, The Haunting, What Lies Beneath) that the horror aspect of the film is not to scare you, just creep you out. I'm not scared by some R-rated serial killer, or some CGI monster, jump scare ridden movie. Sure you could notice the effect in some of the PG-13 flicks, but they wern't actually trying to scare the viewers just creep them out.And that is where Mothman comes into play, the cinematography (which despite the film's sometimes slow pace kept my attention), and the general mood of the film is the creepy aspect. Of course it is creepy because of the Mothman ledgend being in my neighbor state, and the fact that I knew of the stories when I was a kid. I guess the idea of an unstoppable paranormal entity is a lot scarier than some guy in a ghost costume with a knife.*minor spoilers* On another note, I don't really think the film was intended to be all about the Mothman, I think that possibly the main aspect of the film was Gere's character getting over the death of his wife. That seemed to be the easily noticeable other outcome of the movie. "}{"Title":"A heart-racing treatment of an enormous myth","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The legend/s behind this film - that gives it its background as a whole - is massive and worthy of scholarly study.  The portion dealt with in the film is from the late 1960s in West Virginia.  Some of what is retold is truth; the rest is as based on true events as The Blair Witch Project.  All in all, Pellington's direction is quick and dark and gives you an on-edge thrill throughout the entire film.  It's hardly an all-encompassing telling of the myth, but it IS a worthy try and a good reminder to cinemagoers that there's more out there than meets the eye. "},{"Title":"One word....Boring!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After seeing the trailer, reading the book back in high school, and hearing all the good things about this film, I was really looking forward to seeing it. Was I to be disappointed! Total crap. I had to fight my way to stay awake during this terrible movie. Not one scene in this film made me jump, nor was there anything in the plot to make it even remotely chilling. Biggest waste of 2 hours. Unfortunately, it is 2 hours of my life that I will never get back.For all the people that think this is a really scary movie, they should go out and rent The Exorcist, or The Wickerman. These are two films that are truly scary and play with the mind. The Mothman just does not deliver.I should have figured it would be a waste of time when I heard that Richard Gere is in it. He hasn't made a decent film since Red Corner, and even that was not that great.Do yourself a favour, skip this one, and just read the book. That is truly creepy. However, if you have a bad case of insomnia, go and see the movie. Not even a pack of cafeeine pills will keep you awake through this snore fest.One quick question for all out there that love this movie. Why? "},{"Title":"Illusion vs. Reality","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Whether it's a true story or not, the film offers an odd and provocative perspective on what is real and what is illusion.There is an interesting political theme too, considering that the reporter is a political commentator who observes how we demonize people in the world. Maybe we create our own horrors.The name of the town is ironic (even though it is real) -- Point Pleasant. For the time period of the story, it is anything but pleasant.Great use of creepy FX, light and dark, symbolism (bridge of and to death). Is is a good old-fashioned horror flick. If you like to be spooked, try this one.One wonders where the Mothman was before 9/11 -- or did people just not listen? "},{"Title":"A Really Good Movie!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies has to be one of the best movies I have ever seen! I loved everything about it. This movie made me so intensely creeped out that I still can't stop thinking about it and I saw it two weeks ago! If you haven't seen this movie, you should definitely go to the movies and see it.....at least 20 times!!!!!  "},{"Title":"The BEST HORROR TO START OFF THE NEW YEAR!!!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I first went to go see THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES i thought i was in for a long hour of people talking about effects the REAL MOTHMAN had on them, but i was wrong! Debbie Messings performance was pure gold, and Richard Gere was Excellent! This movie proved that all movies based on true stories don't have to always be boring! So, on a scale of 1-10 i give THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES a 10!!!!!! We (America) need more movies like this every year!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Rent it, or better yet...don't bother.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophesies had it's moments, but overall it is unsatisfying. The story is murky and vague and the ending seems tacked on.  It is okay to have a vague story that does not fully disclose to the audience what is happening (ie-Eyes Wide Shut), but this film tires to tell you a lot and be vague at the same time.  The contradiction doesn't work. Richard Gere was competent, not his usual wooden self.  Will Patten always brings an interesting angle to a character.  Laura Linney was okay, though she must have the most forgettable face in Hollywood.  Debra Messing is a goddess. There are some good spooky scenes or shots in the Mothman Prophesies, however.  But you know what? There were things that made you jump in Lord of the Rings too, and that doesn't make it a horror movie.  Most of the strange style of shooting and editing seemed to be borrowing heavily from David Fincher in Seven or The Game.  But the director is no Fincher.As for smart modern horror films with a good dose of drama, I'd rather re-watch The Sixth Sense then see The Mothman Prophesies again.  Rent it, or better yet...don't bother. "},{"Title":"Slow story, yet worth seeing again!","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First off, the acting was great. Richard Gere really pulls it together, and shakes off the last few Chick flicks he seemed to have found himself stuck in. I really loved his work, he carried the movie with an honest fear, yet drive to understand the circumstances he was in. Rather than just the average action star saves the day, he was comparable to Bruce Willis' work in the Sixth Sence in that he was just as caught up in the mystery as the viewer, yet he was able to go around the dark corners and lead the viewer into shaky circumstances with ease. Very well done! Oh, and everyone else was good, but dim in his performance.Is what really made the film was the production value, the subtle hints to upcoming climaxes seen in the mirror in the background made the movie as scary as it was. It is worth seeing again just to notice all of the small things that I might have missed the first time.The only problem I had was that, at points, the movie seemed to drag a little bit. The story slowed and suspense died down and left me stranded in a movie theater. But it definatley picked up, and moved to an incredible ending, far better than the one I thought was coming!  "},{"Title":"Predictable and unfulfilling","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies tried to creep me out, but it didn't work. Everything that happened after the first half an hour was totally predictable. While the use of lighting, angle and music effectively set the tone; it's nothing we haven't seen before. The plot is full of holes and when it was over I felt unsatisfied with what it left me.  "},{"Title":"Unengaging mystery","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Perhaps a more engaging film might have been made from the mystery of how Richard Gere looks like he does at over fifty years of age.  This tale, based on the book of the mysterious prophecies centred on the American backwater town of Point Pleasant, pushes most of the right buttons in making the viewer interested in what happens, but there is simply not enough pay-off as the plot limps to the unsatisfying conclusion. "},{"Title":"Left me wanting more...","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Having grown up in West Virginia (Parkersburg, about 45 minutes north of Point Pleasant on the Ohio River), I am quite familiar with the sightings of the Mothman and the stories relating to the collapse of the Silver Bridge. The movie did an excellent job of scaring me in all the right places. However, I was disappointed that the movie focused more on John Klein and less on the Mothman and the sightings. I wanted the film to be more of a pseudo-docu-horror. More on the people who saw the Mothman and where the sightings took place and less on John Klein. I am very happy that the typical West Virginian stereotypes were left out of this film. Kudos to Laura Linney for not sounding like a complete hick. I was glad to see that they were able to film in a locale very similar to Point Pleasant. Having passed through the city hundreds of times on trips up and down Route 2, which passes right through city, it was well represented on screen. Go see this film, the ending alone was well worth the price of admission! "}{"Title":"Richard Gere looking spooked is NOT a reason to hand over $10.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw The Mothman Prophecies with a friend who beamed with excitement about going to see what she claimed would be quite a frightening film.While the movie had a couple of yipe moments, my friend's prophecy was quite unfulfilled.Shallow Hal was scarier.Richard Gere staring into the nothing while the camera circles around and in and out does not a goose-bump raise. And while camera pans and fades and tricks, coupled with chilling sound effects and what have you can definitely add to a movie's fear factor, they're supposed to be movie's AIDES-de-spook. In Mothman, they lead the Frighten 'Em Fight. The result is a major loss.And the horrifying scene where Indrid Cold tells Gere he's holding chapstick and hiding his wallet in his shoe and all that really got to me. Understand I also have to turn the lights on when a Miss Cleo commercial comes on TV.What's so heart-wrenching about the failure of this movie to effectively evoke the fear it ought to have is the fact that the events which inspired the book which inspired the movie are quite disturbing and ought to have made for quite a bothersome and frightening movie.The only thing that disturbed me about this movie was the fact Debra Messing had to up and be killed off at the get-go. At least Laura Linney filled the necessary Pretty Lady Opposite Mr. Gere void quite nicely.(By the way, I'd pay $100 to the first person to find a cop in West Virginia... or anywhere, really ... who's that good-looking.)I don't know which is more at fault -- the acting or directing or the screenplay. I'll go ahead and blame all three -- but I just couldn't bring myself to care a whole lot about poor ol' John Klein's problems.Maybe I'm just bad at watching movies.Or am I just bad at watching bad movies? "},{"Title":"Nice try but no cigar","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have been intrigued by the Mothman lore since the 1970s.  So naturally when I found out that the myth was to find its way to the silver screen, I could hardly wait to purchase my ticket.  After viewing the movie, however, I can't help but be a bit disappointed. Director Mark Pellington did comment that he did not want to make a monster movie, but rather a psychologically terrifying story.  The problem I had with the film is that knowing that the story is not about the mothman as an entity, but rather the prophecies it tells, diluted its energy.Cut this film down to say an hour and it would play better.  Two hours and it becomes a drawn-out exercise in realizing a specific prophecy, which by the way is no secret.  The trailers gave it away. So how can the tension sustain itself? I got tired of watching Richard Gere confounded by the endless barrage of haunting events.  They seemed to repeat themselves over and over.  And the answers to all this mystery was more mystery.  At least in a film like Memento, which was not meant to be anything more than a subjective interpretation of facts, it was clever. Mothman teased us.  It gave us the Twilight Zone spookiness, with the reality of a disaster film.  Yes, it followed the events of the book. Maybe a bit too closely. "},{"Title":"Splat! What was that?","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I was a child I had a great fear of moths. Something about the way they fluttered around the porch lights, and maybe the silly cartoons I watched where moths would chew the clothing off people, making a sound like a buzzsaw. My parents kept trying to assure me I had nothing to fear because moths don't bite or sting, but it took me quite a few years to get over my moth phobia.Unfortunately there's disappointingly little to be afraid of in The Mothman Prophecies, as well, except perhaps for kids who don't know any better. I kept waiting for the moment when the movie would get halfway scary, instead of just weird, confusing and moody, but the moment never arrived. It was like watching Close Encounters with all the scenes of UFOs edited out to leave only Richard Dreyfuss acting like a nutcase.I'd have to say the fault rests mainly on the script. The acting was just fine and the visuals were good, particularly the climactic scenes at the end. That makes it all the more frustrating, because it appears that a lot of talent was wasted on a story that had about as much impact as a moth hitting the radiator grill of a truck traveling 70 mph.  "},{"Title":"A Good Scary Movie","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is like an old scary movie.  There is no slasher around every corner.  It reminds me of the day when the suspense was just as scary of what happened in the movie.  I would rate it as 9 out of 10.  If you have no patience I would not recommend it. "},{"Title":"Starts out promising, but never fully delivers.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Washington Post journalist John Klein mysteriously ends up in the small town of Point Pleasant, West Virginia exactly two years after his wife's fatal accident.  He has no recollection of how (or why) he got there, and he soon becomes drawn to stay and investigate the many unexplainable events the good, churchgoing people of Point Pleasant claimed to have witnessed. Mostly all of the stories told by the residents revolve around being haunted by a mothlike creature, much like the one John Klein's wife swore she was being followed by prior to her death.  The story, which is supposedly based on true events, is decent; however, it tends to drag on, often reiterating the same points time and time again.  The performances were somewhat dull, but what is lacking in the acting department is definitely made up for in the finale's awesome destruction sequence. Overall, THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES isn't a bad movie, but the legend of the Mothman itself seems a lot scarier than the style in which the film tells it. "},{"Title":"Mediocre plot, *fantastic* cinematography","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The cinematography is so *unbelievably amazing*, it is utterly unimportant that some of the acting is horrendous, that the plot has gaping holes in it, or that the story itself proves to be at best mediocre.  Seriously, go see it *just* for the cinematography.  You *won't* be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great directing and soundtrack uplift mediocre script and acting...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The best horror movies are the ones that contain a bit of truth in them...The Mothman Prophecies surprisingly falls under this category. A series of  events in the 60's in Point Pleasant, WV lead up to a disaster on the Ohio River, whereupon the events abruptly stopped. This movie takes some dramatic license those events and characters, but accurately hits the highlights and captures the strangeness of those days... Great directing, camerawork, and an spooky soundtrack more than make up for the cheesy script and mediocre acting to give a scarey representation of  the Mothman's visits and the Ohio River catastrophy where 46 people died (the movie trims that to 36). And the ending is more than suitable...leaving some things up in the air and providing no easy answers for what went on. Definently worth a matinee visit to the theather!  "},{"Title":"Wanted to walk out...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went to this film expecting in the very least to be entertained for two hours.  Imagine my disappointment when about half an hour into the film my friend and I were ready to walk out.  The subject matter of the film made me ask over and over as I endured the next hour and a half of the film, who cares?  The characters were so underdeveloped how could anyone possibly care what happens to them?  I knew we were in trouble when during one of Richard Gere's more emotional moments there were more than a few chuckles in the audience.  And by the time the film's final scene arrived, the audience (about a hundred people) was literally laughing out loud at the absurdity of it all.  There were a lot of visual and sound effects which helped distract the audience from the fact that at the heart of this film lies a story that is not even remotely compelling, only confusing and erratic.    One wonders what director Mark Pellington ever saw in this story other than a pay check.  Pellington's last film Arlington Road was at least entertaining, and I only hope that for his next film he will have the patience to wait for a better story to come along. "},{"Title":"Struggling... to stay... awake...","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Imagine an episode of the X-files (worthy of maybe 30 minutes of your time) stretched out for TWO HOURS!I was struggling to stay awake through the whole movie.  The plot was dull, the action boring and the cinematography uninspired.  I have little doubt that this was a great idea on paper.  The movie simply didn't capture it well.  It needed better editing and a WHOLE lot more material for us to chew on while we waited for the ending.Admittedly, the only thing that kept me from asking for my money back WAS the ending.  Sadly, it took too long to get to. "},{"Title":"UNDERRATED!!!!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As a screenwriter professionally, and a movie lover always, I am SHOCKED that I've seen 2 star ratings from acclaimed critics and only a 6.5 from the users on here so far. Call me crazy, but this movie was TEN times more thrilling and enjoyable than The Sixth Sense, and 100 times more enjoyable than Unbreakable. This movie kept you not only entertained, but freaked out, from beginning to end. I am SO EXCITED about this movie.  "}{"Title":"Everything was pretty great...","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The film turned out to be pretty well made. I really enjoyed how it was filmed. The acting was good too. Debra Messing shouldn't have been cut off that early in the film because Richard G. was terrible without her. He couldn't pretend to cry. He killed almost half the movie. Still...everything else was great. The film had GREAT special effects and even scared me once in a while with some loud noises and mothmen appearing everywhere you turn.  "},{"Title":"GIVE DEBRA MESSING MORE WORK, HOLLYWOOD!!!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, the general consensus of the audience I screened this with was dazed, with a hint of confusion over what they had seen.  Some people were saying they liked it, a few hated it.  But one thing about the movie was clear. DEBRA MESSING should've been in it more!!  That girl rocks in so many ways; I hope Hollywood was paying attention.  Grace Adler isn't all she can do, that's for sure. My opinion of the movie is this  it has it's thrills, but there were way too many exposition scenes and it slowed the movie down to a crawl.  I hate it when a character who has lots of information the lead needs chooses to reveal it bit by bit.  For God's sake, just tell him everything you know! Dragging it out drags down the movie.  Still, the final twenty minutes was a great payoff, Laura Linney proves once again that by gracing a screen she can make you fall in love with her, and I am dying to know about the real story behind this eery tale.  Personally, I give this movie a solid B+. If you like X Files, then this movie is for you.  If you are one who finds that show intolerable to follow, you might want to skip this one.  The story structure is similar.  But all in all, I liked it.     "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable thriller with a great atmosphere.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I found this movie very enjoyable in the vein of The Blair Witch project. While not very scary (imho) it serves the purpose of drawing you into the bizarre events surrounding this true story.The movie itself is pretty close to what is known to be the actual events with the most important exception of the time it took place.  I believe that it was supposed to have actually happened in the late 60s.At any rate, while quite enjoyable to watch, and very well directed, I did find the movie a bit slow at times.The atmosphere of the film was very dark and taught at times with an effective creepy style.See the film now if you are a suspense fan and have little else to watch but imho it is nothing so spectacular that it couldn't wait to be rented.I give it a 7.5 due to the fact that the film is quite effective in trying to portray the sense of dread and confusion surrounding the unexplainable events... again my only problem is the occaisional drag between sightings and action.Finally, I'm quite happy that the writers didn't try to go out of their way and explain for themselves why the phenomena occurred and exactly what it meant... it's a much better idea to leave it up to ourselves instead of come up with some sort of lame explanation that leaves itself to criticism which would only come around to hurt the film. "},{"Title":"Spook Time","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is a good movie with a lot of spooky parts and you can see about 7 parts when the other people in the theater will jump.  I loved the camera angles and especially the spooky music that is played throughout the feature.  The acting is fairly good, the best of the feature is what you don't see much, that is of Debra Messing.  Will Patton also did a great job.  Overall, I think that the movie has a lot of good things going for it, and the fact that it's based on true events can give the audience even more to be scared about. "},{"Title":"left unsatisfied","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  i just returned from the theater where i sat with a sold out crowd and watched this pathetic attempt at a thriller. at first i thought it would be interesting, but i found myself bored many times throughout the 2 hour film. personally, i left feeling like there was more that needed to be said, although i was just glad the movie was over. i feel that the whole storyline was messy. while there were some great effects and audio, i found the characters, especially richard gere's to be boring. i am not recommending this movie, but i am also not going to suggest you not see it, i am just pointing out what i happened to think. i read the other reviews and i was surprised, that while there aren't many for this film yet, mine seems to be the first negative. maybe i missed something, i don't know, i mean the concept of horror is sort of there, i jumped a couple of times, but something was just missing that i can't quite put my finger on. i hope to see what others think about this one..... "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers ever made!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I am simply astounded at the greatness of this movie.  It maintained a high level of creepiness and foreboding, along with being well acted and having some really innovative camera work.  Movies where you don't actually see anything but you know something is there are always more scary and this movie definitely ranks as one of the scariest!  Watch for the scene where Richard Gere is on the phone and you can see his partial reflection in the mirror.  Genius film making! "},{"Title":"Was compelled to watch it then couldn't wait to leave","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  We had arrived at the theater early. The credits and music were still playing from the previous show. I was wondering why no one was in the theater. I myself always stay to read the credits and listen to the music at the end of the movie.When we had seen the movie I understood why. I found the movie compelling to watch but very dark in nature. When it was over I could not wait to get out of the theater and I noticed that others were also moving briskly towards the door.  I believe the high use of red, black and red lights in the movie effected my psyche and caused this sensation in me. "},{"Title":"A very good thriller which held my interest throughout!","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" MOTHMAN PROPHECIES  ***_  Thriller / Sci-Fi Richard Gere, Laura Linney, Debra MessingWhile driving from Washington DC to Richmond VA, Gere inexplicably finds himself on the West Virginia / Ohio border. Residents of this small town have recently reported sighting a strange, paranormal creature. Even stranger, it appears to be the same creature Gere's wife sketched two years earlier. So he decides to stay around and investigate.Based on actual events in West Virginia, this is not a thriller or horror film in the usual sense. Anyone looking for blood and gore would be disappointed. Yet the direction, cinematography, and writing work skillfully together to weave a tense and very engaging tale. It will keep you on the edge of your seat. No explosions. No car chases. "},{"Title":"Unusual, to say the least.","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Gere plays a widower reporter who literally finds himself in a small West Virginia town without any knowledge as to how he got there.  While there, he discovers that a supernatural phenomenon is sweeping the town with symptoms similar to his wife who had died from a rare brain disorder (tumor).This movie gives a handheld journey through confusion to give a sense of dramatic irony that isn't so incredible that you have that great of an edge on the characters.  Many things come into realization as they're happening, and that's good.Gere plays his role as I sense it was originally intended.  He isn't the perfect man here, he is just a man.  His supporting cast seems to convey Gere's confusion and disbelief.There is a lot of concentration in this movie (visually) on physical design. You will take note to a focus on symmetrical and blatantly asymetrical patterns, light composition, background sounds, visible emotion, and props.The only thing that disappointed me in this movie is that some of the things that were intriguing in the beginning were overplayed by the end.  Also, no explanation is given as to how Gere's character unknowingly travelled physically over 400 miles in less than two hours by car/foot.I also realize that it was based on true events and that my gripes may not have an answer, but, they are my gripes, and this is my review.I am glad I saw this movie. "},{"Title":"CREEPY, BUT GOOD","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. It was sufficiently creepy like a good  twilight zone. I was completely drawn in and was anxious to see what would happen next. Toward the end of the movie without spoiling it for anyone I thought the movie was going to end at one point as it seemed that Richard Gere's character through the help of Laura Linney's character had somewhat resolved his conflict and torment. Honestly if it had ended there I would have still liked the movie but would have been disappointed that there was no real climax. I'm happy to say that the climax was indeed not a disappointment.  "}{"Title":"What Do You See?","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies made me extremely uneasy after I saw it. Maybe it was the fact that it was based on true events or I don't  know, it just made me feel very weird which is a good thing, the movie did its job, it wasn't a cheesy horror flick, it was just a chilling movie that made me feel extremely weird and uneasy. I loved it and am going go see it again. Go see this now, even Richard Gere was extremely great, Only complaint is that I think Debra Messing should have got more screen time,I watch Will and Grace all the time and she's  killer 10/10 "},{"Title":"One Spooky Movie!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The trailers were good but this was one spooky Movie. We didn't expect to feel that kind of tension and some parts were down right chilling. Quick- Look behind you!  Was that someone in the mirror?  Just a shadow or someone lurking.  And Don't answer the phone.Never heard of the story before but if these incidents and events are mostly true world wide very creepy.Richard Gere And Laura Linny were both very good.  Some scenes became victims of visual effects.  Some sounds were very hard to understand but the message given and results were still made.A very unusual movie that will make you want to read about the real incidents. "},{"Title":"Effective, intriguing, picturesque, what horror should be","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went into this film not expecting much, the tv spots hadn't impressed me with some garbage about mind reading.  I was extremely surprised, this is a great film.  Though not officially classified as horror, this is what I think horror should be.  Many similarities to the video game Silent Hill, from the overall story to many scenes, but that's a good thing.The acting was very good, Richard Gere nailed the man lost and confused in a strange place, both physically and mentally, and the support cast all played their roles great, especially Will Patton.  There are no BOO's just for the sake of scaring you, the ones that are there are not only well placed but extremely effective, the man beside me was flat out terrified at one point.  The cinematography is beautiful, perfectly showing the not-so-small town which is the main setting for the movie.The director manages to screw with your head enough to make you uneasy, not in the typical something's about to jump out way, but in a deeper psychological one which is much more effective, and more difficult to pull off.  Every aspect of this movie was well done, nothing felt cheap or pointless, this is what horror films should be.  Definitely keep an eye on Mark Pellington, he shows promise.  **** of **** "},{"Title":"A mythical creature haunts a small town, while a single man tries to figure out the importance of the Mothman in his wife's death.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie sets out to thrill the audience.  It accomplishes this...but that's about it.  The story does not even have a clear plot throughout the whole film.  As I watched, I began asking myself Is this about the Mothman himself or is this about the supernatural?  When I saw this in the theatre, the reaction of the audience surprised me a lot.  During some of the 'horror' scenes, the audience laughed because it was so lame.  But, on the other hand, there were a few genuinely thrilling scenes that got some screams from the audience.  Predictable, yet somewhat entertaining, The Mothman Prophecies is just another horror film.  You won't miss much if you skip this film...besides maybe a couple thrills. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrible","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A message from the Mothman Do not see this movie! The Mothman Prophecies does not thrill or entertain. It leaves the viewer in a state of absolute boredom and challenges you to sit through it's entirety. Some dialogue even made me laugh out loud in the theatre. There is nothing redeeming about this waste of time. There is no reason to review the photography, lighting, directing, editing and acting because it does not serve any insight into this bombastic travesty....OK, enough negativity....on a positive note, here are some possible sequel titles Mothman 2 Electric Boogaloo, Mothballs (a hybrid film), Mothman Vs. Godzilla, Mothman Returns, Mothman Strikes back, Mothman sucks again, Mothman Vs. the Gerbils, Mothman makes mo' money, Driving Mrs. Mothman; I will stop.....and hopefully you will too....Please do not see this movie.... "},{"Title":"When did MTV start making twilight zone episodes?","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The obnoxious tracking and pan shots.  The mysterious bleed of light and overexposed film punctuating scenes throughout the movie.  Yep, you guessed right, it's a music video.  The sad thing is, The Mothman Prophecy wants to be so much more.  Why would I assume that?  Well lets just call it a Sixth Sense.  I could make all the comparisons to other more successful films, but that would just build this movie up as a complete failure, and it's not. Mundane and mediocre come to mind. Rent it. "},{"Title":"If only it weren't real...","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit, there are some absolutely psychologically terrifying moments in this movie.  What's most creepy is that a lot of this is based on real accounts from this town.  I was a bit disappointed in the ending but if they strayed too much, it might have completely thrown the picture for a loop.  I'm not a big Richard Gere fan.  He usually bothers me but I was ok with him in this one.  Not a must see but I don't think you'd be disappointed spending an evening price for. "},{"Title":"better version of Fire in the Sky?","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  So, I may be biased against this film as I want some plausability in movies. And less showiness for the sake of showiness.  In Moulin Rouge, it was flashy, but so are musicals.  This was so self-rightous and self-important, it was hard to take it seriously.  The editing in the first sequence alone says it all.As for the movie itself, it really drags in the middle.  I was constantly looking at the broken clock in the room and at the reels to see how much more we had before the next reel.  Maybe the fact that it was sweltering in the place didn't help.  The performances were decent for the material given, but the material wasn't all that great either.  Especially with this one, it seemed really weird.There was a decent amount of laughter through this movie, especially through the more dramatic parts.  It wasn't as hilarious as Mission to mars, but it was starting to get there.  The movie was well done, but some of the points were just awful.  One shot had Gere walking along a wall, which made me laugh for some reason.  It was funny.  Also, the fact that he only had one phone in the house was strange.*SPOILERS**SPOILERS**SPOILERS** The ending sucked.  Full of implausibilities and such.  Maybe it was the college crowd, but the number 37 should never be used in the dramatic context.  Clerks ruined the number.  Then, I like the fact that he was able to rip the mesh divider between the to sections of the cop suv right off to save the girlfriend.  And, I don't believe that's how a bridge would self-destruct, crumbling in pieces from the side nowhere important for no good reason.  There were other hilarious parts in the rest of the movie too, but I don't really remember them, too many brain cells. *END SPOILERS*So, in the end, the movie is better for your average filmgoer, and I suspect that it will do decent at the box office, considering my two friends liked it.  Me, I hated it.  We need better sci-fi, not this self-rightous x-files.3/10 "},{"Title":"A better-than-expected thriller worth going to check out in the theater.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This better-than-expected thriller from director Mark Pellington (Arlington Road) feels something like a cross between the X-Files and Twilight Zone. Apparently based on true events, this freakish thriller starts out with a bang and although it slows down in places, never becomes really dull or uninteresting.Richard Gere is surprisingly believable as a reporter trapped in a bizarre situation and compliments Laura Linney's (The Truman Show) more stable character. Although Gere may seem a little smug here, that's just his role. Without revealing too much, it can be said that this kind of film can become cheesy and laughable very quickly if not handled correctly. This one does not have that problem.Pellington probably learned a little in his day when working with U2 on their Achtung Baby videos and incorporated it into his films. Not to say that the movie looks like a music video, but the choppy direction, effects, and camera angles all hint at a direction towards the MTV generation, which is probably what Gere needed after the last few of his pictures turned out to be commercial disasters (especially with the younger crowd). He's not trying for the romantic lead here and that's admirable. There's no romance between him and Linney, so that steps the movie up a notch.Overall, this one is worth checking out in the theater if you enjoy thrillers. There are a few moments that will make you jump, so make sure you have a hand to grab onto next to you. You can tell by the preview what you're getting into, so if it looks good from that, you'll probably like it. Otherwise, it won't kill you to wait for video.  "},{"Title":"Breathless, supernatural thriller.","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies begins with a car crash as intense as anything commited to film this year and builds from there. Pellington designs brilliant visuals to support the intriguing narrative. Haunting performances are delivered by an exemplary cast of Richard Gere, Laura Linney, Alan Bates, Debra Messing, and Will Patton. Pellington is shaping into a true master of suspense, he makes all the right choices here and blends surreal montage with compelling composition. Sound design and cinematography shine here without drawing attention to themselves. The film is truly scary without being heavy handed. Finally and perhaps most remarkable, The Mothman Prophecies is a film that chills to the bone and stays with you long after the lights come back on. "}{"Title":"SCARY!!!","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is quite honestly one of the scariest movies I have ever seen.  I was fortunate enough to catch it in a free screening and I definitely recommend it.  It is a psychological thriller that left me shaking for days. "},{"Title":"Comparisons to Final Destination are appropriate.","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Richard Gere turns in one of his best performances as John Klein, Washington D.C. journalist, in this interesting psychological thriller inspired by true events. Klein loses his wife Mary (Debra Messing) after they have a bizarre car accident triggered by a nightmarish vision she'd had. Some time after she's died, he's travelling on the way to rendezvous with a senator whom he's to interview when he ends up in the small West Virginia town of Point Pleasant. And he has no memory of how he came to be there. The haunted John finds out that residents there are experiencing strange phenomena that can't be easily explained away, having to do with a moth man type entity, and tales of doom being foretold by some mysterious character named Indrid Cold. John becomes so caught up in the mystery and trying to figure it out that he ceases to care about much else. In the meantime, he strikes up friendships with locals such as Connie Mills (Laura Linney), a police officer, and Gordon Smallwood (Will Patton). Cast & crew do well here in creating a consistently somber mood, almost right away, and crafting a mystery that's more about the mental & emotional effects it's causing for its characters than in the more traditional kinds of horrors. That's not to say that there aren't some special effects sequences here and there, but they're kept to a minimum, except for a climactic catastrophe that feels pretty convincing. The acting from all concerned is incredibly sincere; Linney is wonderful as always, Messing comes off as likable enough in her brief time on screen, the under rated Patton is fine at portraying a person caught up in strange events, and excellent veteran Alan Bates is good at giving us enough exposition to sort of understand what is going on. Still, The Mothman Prophecies may in the end generate more questions than answer them, but that helps it maintain its twisty, enigmatic quality. Location shooting in Pennsylvania is a bonus, as well as a stylized look that doesn't go much for bright colours. This is overall nicely done, and words like creepy and eerie would serve as perfect descriptions. It's worth a look for thriller fans. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cannot begin to comprehend how much I loved this!","Date":"27 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Title The Mothman PropheciesDirector Mark Pellington Genre ThrillerCast Richard Gere, Laura Linney.....Rating 9/10 - Near Perfect!The Mothman Prophecies is one of those unexpected movies which after you watch has you thinking about it for days and nights. It is also one of those movies which you also love because it came to be a surprise pang in the face - and a good pang as a matter of fact. The Mothman Prophecies is referred to as an UFO film but that description is partly right because Supernatural is the word mainly used to describe this film. Wait a minute, make it supernatural/thriller/horror. The film is reported to be based on the accident that saw the bridge on the River Ohio crumble and break in two but the events leading up to that are complete fiction. The first thing is that The Mothman Prophecies is set in the present rather than the 1960's when the disaster struck, so, to be honest, it lacks in fact and excels in fiction. The film does a good job of telling the story with a few stereotypes here and there but apart from all that crap, I actually, believe me or not, LOVED it! The film has everything from good, unexpected scares that make you jump out of your seat and crap your pants, to a brilliant dialogue, to a great supernatural story that ultimately captures your attention. I don't get why people gave this film such a low score, or stars, because this surely deserves at least a seven point five, if not belonging in the top 250. Forgive my exaggeration but what I speak comes from the heart. The film is believed to be an adaptation from the novel, it's highly likely because Mark Pellington is not a great story writer, but I do not know if it stays true to the book or is far away from being close to each other. The surprising thing is that I knew nothing about the Great Tragedy on The River Ohio (need to study my history) and so the events leading up to the climax actually had me shocked to the bone. Sometimes it is good not to know your history of a movie that centers around a fact. The Great Tragedy of The River Ohio is a fact that occurred in Point Pleasant, so you better not report me if a I told you a spoiler that wasn't a spoiler. The main actor in the film is Richard Gere and he plays a man who's wife is killed by the same supernatural forces that are randomly happening in Point Pleasant. John Klein is an interesting character with a background full of stereotypes but is an interesting result. He is brought to life by Richard Gere who plays John Klein with great focus and a lot of skill. His acting is top-notch but somehow people are saying the opposite of what I am saying about him. Laura Linney was nothing new and I found her as a nuisance. No more comments. David Eigenberg was great to watch as he played Ed Fleischman, a man who accuses Klein of being the man who keeps on knocking on his door. He played the game properly and to his limit....or so I think? Supernatural Fans will without a doubt love this film and the genre even more.When John Klein, a Washington Post journalist, and his wife Mary finally find the house of their dreams, they just can't believe their luck. On the way back from the bargain, Mary nearly runs over a caped, winged figure, jerks the wheel and skids into the sidewalk. She hits her head badly, and dies in the hospital a little later. John, completely devastated, soon finds some sketches his wife made after the accident. They all show a winged creature, yet there is no angel resemblance at all. Two years later, John all of a sudden finds himself one night in Point Pleasant, West Virginia. He has no idea how he has journeyed the 400 miles in less than two hours. In the small town, local cop Connie struggles with many sightings of a mothlike creature taller than a man being reported, while John believes that an explanation for his wife's fate can be found. The deeper John digs, the clearer the mothman's purpose arises - only to leave his life in immediate danger, as it seems.The mothman is something that is quite terrifying and leaves clue on disasters in the future. The Mothman has a terrifying voice filled with dread and sounds like a computer dying of a virus. The part where John Klein finds out that the mothman's voice is different, you then start being alert of every scares around the corner that re to come. The music is, what I remember of, quite enjoyable to hear because in scary situation the music will rise and more creepiness will be added to it while other times it will be a haunting soft low music that sinks in your bones, making it the perfect atmosphere for a good, old scare. The Mothman Prophecies is rated PG-13 in America but sometimes it has R18 themes that is cleverly used. The Mothman Prophecies can beat most horror or thriller films that are out in stores today, so I highly recommend taht you view this with a couple of friends but try and watch it alone.....with the lights switched OFF! The special effects are very limited in this film because it does not need to thrive on it but it does have it's moments. The visions of the Mothman are superbly stylish and the River scene was very realistic.Over and Out. 27 May 2010. "},{"Title":"A god or just someone with a very different perspective?","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Richard Gere stars in this interesting, and tense, little chiller from director Mark Pellington (who also gave us the enjoyable Arlington Road) featuring a great supporting cast including the ever-watchable Will Patton and Laura Linney.Based on the book by John A. Keel (a book apparently based on true events), this tells the story of John Klein (Gere), an upstanding citizen and respected journalist who finds his life unravelling when a car accident involving him and his wife (played by Debra Messing) starts off a sequence of events and revelations that lead him into the path of the mothman. But who is he? What is he? And how can he seem to know all that he knows? I have to say that despite it's rather modest presentation and it's leisurely pacing, I have long been impressed by this movie. The cast are all great (especially Gere, an actor whom many find easy to sneer at and insult despite the fact that he's actually pretty good at his job), the script does a good job of relating important information while making the bizarre events seem pretty believable and the whole audio/visual style of the film creates an eerie, tense atmosphere that never really lets go of you except perhaps in the slightly disappointing last reel. This is a movie full of everyday objects that create a palpable air of menace and threat by simply sitting there as conduits for the titular seer. Those seeking simple jump scares should look elsewhere but those seeking an intelligent, thoughtful chiller that will give you goosebumps in places should be very satisfied.See this if you like The Last Broadcast, The Eye, Donnie Darko. "},{"Title":"The Mothman Prophecies A Disappointing Thriller","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies is a disappointing thriller that could've been much better. Director Mark Pellington does an okay job of making this movie creepy but the lack of real scares, suspense, and a steady pace is what weighed this film down at least to me. The movie is supposedly based on true events about a Washington Post journalist who suddenly finds himself in Point Pleasant, West Virginia where sights of a moth-man like creature has put fear into the townspeople have been reported. Richard Gere and Laura Linney are good as the two leads bringing believability to their characters but even they can't help the flaws in this movie. Will Patton is impressive as one of the troubled townspeople but his role gets cut rather short. The same can go for Debra Messing as Gere's wife who does well with her small part in the film but like Patton she lacks screen time and development. The rest of the cast are decent in their roles but none of them stand out. The film was creepy mainly because of the moth-man but as to who or what it was are never explained so those hoping for answers to the mysteries of this creature or about the events at Point Pleasant are going to be disappointed. The movie was atmospheric adding to the creep factor but it lacked real scares. The scenes in which some kind of creature are briefly show were well done but there aren't too many of them. The drawings some of the characters would draw made you wonder if some kind of entity like the one being seen in the movie could actually exist or are the minds of the townsfolk just playing tricks on them. As mentioned before the questions raised in this film are never answered like; What the creature is? Is it good or bad? How did Gere's character get to West Virginia that's 400 hundred miles away in less than two hours? And why is this moth-man in Point Pleasant? The best thing the characters come up with are theories as to what is going on which isn't bad but it isn't the greatest either. Some sort of explanation even a made up one by the writers would've been a little better than no resolution to the questions at all. The only real scary and suspenseful part is near the end when something terrible does happen. The incident that does occur near the conclusion of the film really did happen and it was very tragic when I found that out but I just wish this movie had been better so I would've enjoyed it more. The ending was all right but it didn't make up for what happened before unfortunately. The music was okay but nothing memorable. The pacing was slow which is what really hurt the movie for me. If they had made it faster paced while amping up the scares and suspense somehow besides saving most of that for the conclusion the movie would've been much better. Overall The Mothman Prophecies had an interesting story that was creepy, solid performances by the cast, and a little suspense but the bad outweighs the good in this one. If you're a big fan of thrillers than maybe you might enjoy this one more than I did because it had potential but besides the real event that did happen. The Mothman Prohpecies ended up being a disappointment. "},{"Title":"I really wanted to like this, BUT...","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Yes, I have seen to coming of the dying of the film. It seems to me good flicks these days are almost non existent. The problem is quite diagnosable. Make lots of BIG money and make a real scream on the screen before movie goers get a feel for how cheesie the film really is.Moth Angels had this feel of a film with basically some fairly decent acting, but no real script or believable story.Although I am sure perhaps a bridge did collapse somewhere and perhaps someone had a dream or a premonition of disaster, I doubt dead people can and do ring phones.This film uses a guy who does have some acting talent,Rich Gere, but its a waste here. He speaks in whispers most of the time, perhaps to add what? Perhaps so people will be convinced some remarkable point in this stupid flick has been reached? And the final part is just too unbelievable. A middle aged guy wearing business clothes dumps into a deep river and is able to free a downed female police officer from her cruiser? Please. This just is too contrived and beyond, yes, beyond belief. "},{"Title":"A Load of Moth Balls","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Who is the mysterious mothman who appears before disaster strikes? I don't know (I just work here) but Richard Gere is the reporter trying to find out in this hoky film about a supernatural flying man/moth type thing. Following his wife's premature death (she suffered visions of a human shaped insect before she died - oooohhhhh) he finds himself drawn to a small town with a mysterious secret. Who is the mothman? Why does he appear before inevitable carnage? If you erected a giant light bulb would he flap around it banging his head repeatedly? Should Gere be putting in an order for a 100ft tall rolled up newspaper? Why not watch this joke of a horror movie and find out? "},{"Title":"Very good, I was not sure of facts about this town and it's unusual occurrances","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Just finished watching this movie, Richard Gere was very good.Apparently from having read some reviews now, some weird things happened in this town and this film puts a different slant on what may have been the causes.I will go and google the town and see what comes up as now I am intrigued. I will not give anything away, it is worth watching, this film certainly starts out as a standard, they have some trouble in the car type story. What happens afterwards I have never seen tackled in a film, so hats off to those who made this film! Recommended watching! "},{"Title":"Movie- Bleh, Book- Good","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Please everybody go and read the book! It is far far more convincing than this average adaptation.. The book (of the same name) I actually found a very thorough and engaging account of the supernatural events that may/may not have occurred in the point pleasant area of the US over a few decades. It seemed quite well researched and a nice blend of fiction and speculation. Having read the book I expected a far far superior movie than what this was. This film is a relatively boring attempt to take a couple of singular events from that book and string them together in an unconvincing and unoriginal way. The acting was average, the script was average, the screenplay was average...the plot was plain silly. They could have done something really original with this movie, something more diverse and less formulaic..but I guess the same could be said for any crappy film adaptation. Just read the book! "},{"Title":"Pretty Creepy","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Described by director Mark Pellington as a psychological mystery with naturally surreal overtones, The Mothman Prophecies begins like an ambitious episode of The X-Files. Richard Gere ...( read more )brings adequate torment, portent, and ambiguity to his role as a Washington Post reporter and grieving widower plagued by a mysterious, unseen urban legend known as the Mothman. Pellington develops subtle doom and gloom that's as effective as the paranoid streak he brought to Arlington Road. As the Mothman terrifies a West Virginia town, he remains an enigma, glimpsed almost subliminally. This--along with a magnificently creepy soundtrack--amplifies the movie's surreal overtones while keeping everything else (unsettling phone calls, prophesied disasters, suggestions of the afterlife) completely unexplained. With Laura Linney and Debra Messing in underdeveloped roles, The Mothman Prophecies feels a bit underdeveloped itself (and ends in desperate need of Mulder and Scully). But if you like your weirdness open-ended, this moody thriller's worth a look "}{"Title":"ooh wee, ooh wee","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've seen a _lot of great and good movies.Notwithstanding Laura Linney's and Richard Gere's performances, 'the Mothman Prophecies' is not in those categories.There may be some people in Nebraska (and elsewhere) who believe (or want to) in the outre'.There's never been any scientific study to 'back up' outrageous claims by people like Keel, the guy who wrote the 'Mothman Prophecies'.About the _only factual thing in the movie is that a bridge collapsed in West Virginia.The NTSB said the bridge failure was due to age and poor maintenance.Imagine that..... "},{"Title":"Atmospheric","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I happened to watch this on TV late one night when I woke up at 230 a.m. and couldn't get back to sleep. The movie was just starting, so I didn't know what I was watching or what kind of movie it was -- I first thought it was going to be a Richard-Gere-Unfaithful kinda thing.Well, it sure didn't help me sleep! I was scared to death. Just so eerie! Not having any idea what I was watching or what the plot was or what was likely to happen next was a great experience! Not sure how much of those specific circumstances played into why I loved this scary movie, but I did, crazy as it was. I'd recommend it for anyone who likes atmospheric scary movies . . . . the plot-logic isn't the greatest, but if you get into it the atmosphere is relentless! "},{"Title":"The real moth man would fly away from this movie.","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie has very little to do with a moth man who flys' around and kills people but the cover makes you think so. It's about this guy and his wife dies so two years later he ends up in a town and thinks he sees his wife and then he doesn't and then someone calls and calls and calls.Is it the dead wife? Is it the moth man? Is it the exposed redneck with the gun? It doesn't matter because almost every shot in this movie is blurry and throughout the entire movie there is so much whispering that you have to take the moth balls out of your ears to hear it. Then put those mothballs in your eyes and wake up to find 37 movies that are better than this one. "},{"Title":"Very cool","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I found and still find this film completely unnerving. to this day I won't watch it alone and I'm a grown man (and no I don't live in my parent's basement). I thought the staging and direction was great. I know the script got some flack for its aloofness, but it's this fact that made the movie great... and scary. the unknown is far more frightening than the over explained. along with the ring, mothman is one of my favorite supernatural thrillers of all time. hopefully, they won't try to make a sequel. Linney was great as always and richard gere should get more credit in general. some found the ending anti-climactic, whereas I found it suiting. in this type of film you don't need a big showdown between the villain and protag. could you imagine Richard Gere fighting a large Moth? Stephen King films I find suffer from this, at least as a translation from novel to movie. ITs climax with a giant spider ruined the rest of the movie for me. I'd rather have seen them stalked by the clown. anyways, if you haven't seen this, do so. It has great suspense, plotting, and execution. "},{"Title":"Some creepy scenes but overall disappointing and historically inaccurate","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" All the acting and set design talent involved in this film did a fine job and the cinematography was creative and clever.In my opinion the film was just interesting enough to motivate me to see it to the very end. I have read John A. Keel's true account book upon which it was based and was disappointed that there were several subplots which were not even in the book. The book was much scarier than this motion picture. There may have really been a Mothman and psychic premonitions about various events taking place at Point Pleasant, but the full story is difficult to determine now, since the majority of the persons named in the book either were killed during the tragic collapse of the bridge, or have passed since from natural causes. Mr. Keel is still alive.And setting it in the 21st century instead of the late 1960s all but ruined the film for me. The collapse of the Silver Bridge at Point Pleasant, West Virginia, is a historical event. It really happened at rush hour, with the bridge loaded with cars full of Christmas shoppers, just as the film shows it. The trouble is, it happened in 1967, not 2004. And, with better National bridge inspection standards enacted since that time (mostly as a result of the tragedy), a horrific collapse like that is hopefully a thing of the past.The Mothman Prophecies was a good idea for a film but it misfired. "},{"Title":"extremely fascinating cinematography","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie succeeded in being a horror movie, but I had trouble believing the plot at parts. There are some instances in the movie that are completely scary, and I am sure will leave me remembering them for the rest of my life. The biggest letdown though was the way the movie fell away from the book, even though it was very loosely based on it. I highly suggest reading the book if you did enjoy the movie. Even though I did not enjoy the movie as a whole, I have to admit that this truly had some of the best camera work I have seen. The images left me speechless, and I had no way of describing them to others. The movie also was very subtle on foreshadowing. After watching the movie twice I finally caught all of the little things that eventually led to the whole. For those watching it the first time it is a very entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Aka Mothman","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" (the moth man prophecies) is one of the best movies i've seen in a pretty long time, and the fact that it is based on true events makes it even better, i have seen it a while ago then i tripped with the title so i thought to see it again and i was like, jeez, thats really good. full of tricks and unseen scenes at the first time. i have been trying to find any sci-fi/thriller that is that good but its a hard job, so any recommendations??, some Sci-Fi/thriller that is based on actual events and was made as good as the moth man). by the way, i,ve seen that mirror scene like 10 times, its weird, thats the least i can say about it. best shot, the shot following Gordon call to Gere, that one after the mirror thing, with the house and Gere, have a nice day. "},{"Title":"so scary","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie on television last night and watched it alone in the dark which is not such a smart thing to do for a guy like me because I'm very easily scared person. But I must say I enjoyed this movie never the less. It had a storyline who kept me interested the whole time but it also scared the h**l out of me. It has few scenes which made my heartbeat go up like the scene where John Klein (Gere) lies in bed, rolls over and suddenly his wive (Messing) appeared out of nowhere. The subject of this movie is also very interesting, after this movie I went online and did a little research on the matter. What I read there was very interesting and made me think a lot about the subject.I saw in the message board that people were complaining about that this movie doesn't follow the real events to the details but I must remind those people that this movie is only BASED on real events, this is a Hollywood movie, not a documentary. But I really liked this movie though I was to scared to go to bed the next two hours after it was finished. The scary part of this movie was not what it showed you, there was no gore and that kind of stuff but it made your imagination go frenzy, it was not so much what you saw but what you imagined what it would be like. This is not the greatest movie ever or anything like that but fine movie never the less. "},{"Title":"Scary.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I can't imagine anyone not liking this film. Maybe it's too simple for some. It's a horror film based on a true story, so that makes it interesting. The fact that our mothman is only seen in subtle glimpses adds to the sense of suspense, and this movie has it in spades. You'll never look at a moth (or a smudge) the same way again. Richard Gere is effective in the lead role and every other character is filled out, even Alan Bates' tormented Leek. Laura Finney is powerful and endearing, and anchors the plot somewhat. Which is good, because Richard Gere is really spinning out. And why not? I would if I ended up hundreds of klicks away from home with disturbing visions and events piling up.  "},{"Title":"Movie goes nowhere","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Starts out slow and creepy and i liked that but then it stays that way till the end.  The monster is not scary at all, in fact you never get  a good look at it even. Stange things are happening in this small town but nothing is ever explained!  What kind of story is that?. Most shocking thing about the movie was the ending - i was shocked cause i couldn't believe it was over.  I mean there has to be more to a movie that this i thought.Richard Gere was ok if you like robots and his girlfriend Laura Linney was pretty good to look at.  Will Patton overacted terribly.  All in all, a well-made movie that puts one to sleep. "}{"Title":"A bit ho-hum","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I seem to be stuck in a rut of watching reasonably good supernatural thrillers lately. Everytime I try to watch something else, I fall asleep. Well, anyway...'The Mothman Prophecies' is 'based on true events' (these 'true events' actually happened in 1967, but I suppose they couldn't set the film then, because Richard Gere would only have been a teenager. Well, am I wrong?In a similar vein to 'The Dead Zone', Gere seems to be given the ability to perceive supernatural phenomenon as the result of a traumatic car accident, in which he loses his wife. Again, who knows why? On an impulse (unexplained) he drives from Washington to Richmond, and mysteriously finds himself in a small town in West Virginia, which it would have been impossible for him to reach that quickly (again, never explained). As soon as he gets there, he finds himself in the midst of every sort of peculiar goings-on you can imagine, but we can generalise and say that the center around people having mysterious and ominous messages from/conversations with/visions of a huge human-moth like entity. This creature does peculiar things like talk to people for 60 minutes out of drain pipes, burn their eyes and ears, and talk in an annoying, high pitched, mostly indecipherable voice. Whether all of these things were 'actual events' in 1967, I don't know the historical record suggests the writers may have embellished somewhat here.Anyway there isn't much more that can be said without giving away important plot details. Gere hangs around, determined to get to the bottom of things, and possibly avert a disaster. He consults a psychic investigator. He teams up with a policewoman who looks like the should be in 'Fargo'.'Mothman' isn't too bad a supernatural thriller. It has two main faults, for my money firstly, none of the characters are very interesting, complex or challenging, and secondly just a little too much is thrown in to the 'weird unexplained creepy things' basket, without being really resolved. I know this is part of the film's schtick, but for me it seemed a bit lazy.Lupercal gives this one a bit over 6.0.  "},{"Title":"Very Non-specific SPOILER","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The storyline of this movie was pathetic, and a complete let-down.  The build-up was pretty good, and compelling, but it wasn't building up to anything<SPOILER>An apparition predicts that bad things will happen.  Bad things happen. The apparition predicts that something very very bad will happen.  Something very very bad happens.  The End.</SPOILER>My personal reaction at the end of this movie was, Hey!  What happened to the end of the movie?  It's as though thirty minutes just got chopped off of the end and tossed aside. "},{"Title":"Strange indeed...","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is so messed up! After seeing it several times, I am not sure whether I am really dumb, or whether the movie itself is really dumb. I think that it may be the latter, although some may disagree. Anyway, the entire movie makes no sense, and raises more questions than answers. Not to mention that it's pretty boring--I watched it at the drive-in when it was playing, and I fell asleep! On Cinemax I finally saw the whole thing, but it didn't really matter. It was just that bad! "},{"Title":"A down-shifted effort by all involved","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Final Score 2.9 (out of 10)I was a big fan of music video director Mark Pellington's debut film the paranoid horror/thriller `Arlington Road' which many critics decried it as being manipulative. Say what you will about it, but one thing it wasn't was boring. But that very thing is what you can find in abundance in `The Mothman Prophecies' - a movie so fall-asleep dull and lacking a clear vision that I am amazed it is from the same director. `Mothman' falls into a chasm as its finished product tries to meld the horror, monster and thriller genera into one. If it is a monster movie it is without a monster as we never really see the mythical winged Mothman. If it a horror movie, it is not nearly as creepy as it could be. If it is a thriller, it is so caught up in the goofy horror/monster movie points to be taken seriously.The script from Richard Hatem, supposedly based on a book and true accounts, gives us nearly 2 hours of exposition and doesn't add up to any payoff, explanation or hypothetical internal logic. Talented stars Richard Gere and Laura Linney show their faces here, but are clearly slumming. Much of their conflicts here consist of going from place to place while nobody believes them. `Mothman' wants to pose questions, but doesn't exactly inspire us to ponder answers. It becomes abundantly clear, Hatem just doesn't have the imagination to think up any creative payoff or give the characters any real run for their money. He barely even delves into the legends. In lue of an actual story or plot, he lazily throws out a few mysterious occurrences to give the movie the semblance that something is or might happen. Even if all the dots don't quite connect. Nothing happens here, plain and simple, from beginning to end. Pellington himself has shifted into Neutral for this effort. Heavy on atmosphere, but crawling at a snails pace it lulls the viewer away from the Mothman and towards the Sandman. The one thing that Pellington gets right here is bringing back Tomandandy from his last film for an appropriate score. It's all a real waste on what could have been an interesting basic premise. "},{"Title":"Very scary!","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had never heard of The Mothman before this film came out.  This really opened my eyes to what's out there in the world beyond.   Richard Gere plays an excellent reporter, who is drawn back to Point Pleasant even though he is warned to stay away.  There are several truly terrifying scenes in this movie, like the one involving the mirror.  I screamed.  I do not recommend watching this alone, but I definitely recommend watching it! "},{"Title":"A disappointing thriller that doesn't really tell us that much about the Mothman in the first place.","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES (2002)THE GOOD--While I have my complaints about this section of the film, there is no dying that this film had terrific art direction. The colours and the scene transitions were extremely well done and great eye candy.--The performances are the saving grace of The Mothman Prophecies. Laura Linney was outstanding as the only character I really cared for. She was appropriately stern and sympathetic when she needed to be. Richard Gere did respectably well in his role as the tormented lead character. The other town residents also did a really good job, portraying the characters' confusion and vulnerability to the Mothman mystery.--I admit to enjoying the freaky phone conversations. Chap stick&#133; There were also some subtle hints at the Mothman's appearance during these conversations which was neat.THE BAD--The characters in this film are very underdeveloped and hard to care for to be honest. Richard Gere's character goes through a lot of tragic times - boo hoo. Watching a character go through bad times does not a developed character make, you have to put in those moments that really show the despair or anger the character is feeling and we get none of this from the film. I didn't mind whether Gere's character lived or died and wasn't really all that interested anyway. Also, what the hell was up with Will Patton's character? He couldn't decide whether Gere was stalking his family or whether he was a good guy to be trusted. Make up your mind dude!--I have said many times that I love getting information and learning new things out of films and I was expecting to learn about the Mothman during my theatre visit to this film. I learned close to nothing, other than that he is pretty damn freaky and makes weird stuff happen. Why have a movie about the Mothman Prophecies and then have hardly anything to say about the Mothman himself? From Hell does a much better job of telling us about Jack the Ripper and including him the story as well. I felt cheated out of my money.--This movie takes a lot of liberties with the truth. One especially annoying one I must comment on is that after Laura Linney and Richard Gere's characters have had roughly 10-15 minutes screen time together, she's already showing him confidential police files? How do you know that Gere is to be trusted at all, that he is in fact doing good? I know police are more thorough than this in real life.--The Mothman Prophecies has serious overstylization problems. While I enjoyed the colours and cool scene transitions and cutting techniques, it just didn't flow as well when I was seeing them every goddamn 2 minutes. It got frustrating and annoying very quickly. Use style subtly, not stupidly!RATING5/10 - A boring thriller that didn't deliver on the levels I wanted it to, and also didn't tell me anything about the Mothman, which was a major annoyance.IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDArlington Road (9/10) From Hell (8/10) Jeepers Creepers (8/10) Insomnia (8/10) Signs (9/10) "},{"Title":"2 Hour version of the X-Files","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was interested in this movie because I'm a big fan of cryptozoology and unexplained creatures.  I'd also heard the book which this film is based on was well-received so I thought I would check it out.  The fact that it was based on a true story made it even more exciting.My excitement waned however after the first 30 minutes of sitting through this 2 hour version of an X-Files episode.  Aside from a decent bridge collapse scene, I saw absolutely nothing that set it apart, and there was probably better acting on the X-Files.  Gere didn't really lend anything to this movie (beside his name) that any other actor couldn't have done.  And Debra Messing gave an unconvincing job as a feature actress.  At the end of th film, I'm not even sure why she was in it, or what her character's role was.The Mothman wasn't very scary or very interesting, and i couldn't tell if I was supposed to be more concerned over possible future prophecies or the lead character's mental state.  I was left watching a film that was so so, and with a lot of questions that the movie left unexplained.  Fortunately, I wasn't interested enough in the film to care.A movie like this should leave you wanting more.  I should have finished the film and rushed to the Internet to find out more about the real life sightings and what exactly happened. Not only did I not have this feeling at the end of the movie, but I am now even less interested in the real Mothman than before I saw it. "},{"Title":"Boo yah!","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie, is in so little words, one of the neatest, coolest movies I have seen and owned.. It still gives me chills just thinking about it.. Richard Gere, tho not one of my favorite actors at all, but I have to admit this movie gives me grounds to change my opion of him.. The story is so well done, it makes you think.. And there are hundreds of movies out there that forbid thinking.. Good job, to all who made this flick.. My Personal rating 10/10..  "},{"Title":"it's a good thing that....","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  it's a good thing that someone gave Gere a role because he was going in a dark corrner. but don't expect a big lite on this because i think his performance is way low my expectations. If you are looking for prophecies try reading a Nostradamus book because you will find much more there. really the tension i was expecting is absolutely 0. Not much to see if you are looking for a good movie. My oppinion is a 5.5 movie and most of it because the director...if you see it you know what i mean. If you wanted to buy it better try rent it or watch it on cable for free (the best choice). "},{"Title":"Interesting ... for 30 minutes (SPOILERS)","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I should have been warned by the starting message (that the movie is based on a true story). This line all too often tries to cover up the weakness of a movies' story and excitement (see the Perfect Storm) and is completely misplaced for this type of movie (as opposed to films like the Hurricane etc., where saying that it is based on truth does actually add up anything).The movie actually starts quite well. Shortly after a mysterious car accident John Klein's (Gere) wife dies. As we see Klein back two years later, he has not yet been able to get over the loss. During a car trip he somehow ends up a a small town where strange things are going on.This part builds up the tension. Not only because of the mysterious events, but also because of the strong use of audio-visual 'tricks' to enhance the tension. Add to that the eerie atmosphere created and you think you're in for a real treat.Very soon I realized that the strong points of the beginning were the downfall of the movie, too. The tension built up by the music and visuals never results in any actual excitement, so after a while I started to notice how hard the film tried to crank up on the excitement level. I got really bored by the overly dramatic effects by then.This almost coincided with the moment I got the whole story mothmen are prophets of death, there would be an accident with local police woman involved, it would all come down to Klein if she would live.Realizing this, the film really fell short for me. Because it became obvious that most of the events in the film were nothing more than attention grabbers. They did not mean anything to the (very thin indeed) story itself.Examples? - The fact that Klein somehow ended up 600 miles from where he was supposed to be; - The three nightly visits of a couple living in the house; - The eye injuries and ear bleedings; etc,etc ...Too bad the rest of the movie confirmed my concerns.Even worse, the story was not more than a strung together collection of plot holes.In the end, I felt bored, cheated for my time and intellectually insulted. What a shame, especially since this came from the director of the fantastic and intelligent Arlington Road.Unless you really are into paranormal stories, give this one a miss. If you are, try other movies (f.i. the Others) first.3 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Was any one able?","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Was any one else able to relate this movie to 9/11.  The entire fact the events based on the movie happened in the 60's, but the movie takes place in 2004.  I dont agree that this is mearly some glinch in the plot.  Didnt this not only add to the thrill, but allude to other, more political themes; I think these two parties are demonizing each other...They are projecting our own fears and anxieties onto a national stage. "},{"Title":"Exasperating and boring at the same time","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A character can't so much as pick up a cup of coffee without Mark Pellington saying Oooh, spooky! at us.  Every minute of this tedious movie is slow, dark, in extreme close-up, and accompanied by the near-subsonic electronic rumblings that directors and composers only resort to when they've run out of ideas.  As with Arlington Road, Pellington can't simply TELL us anything, however trivial; he has to hit us over the head with it - so instead of John is picking up a cup of coffee we invariably get JOHN is PICKING UP a CUP of COFFEE!! (Oooh, spooky!)Another sign of desperation we're told by a caption at the start that this is a true story (or based on a true story, or based on actual occurances, or some such weasel phrase), and we get a closing caption that tells us that the mothmen were no longer seen in Point Pleasant but continued to appear all over the world ...  In short, we're asked to believe that this is all more or less, give or take, TRUE, probably because if it's true, it IS a bit scary.  But this is cheating.  Works of fiction, and if they can't, well, they fail, and they should admit failure, and not pretend to be works of fact.  As ought to be obvious, this story is not even sort-of true.  The author of the book which has been in any event loosely adapted simply made stuff up.  And not very well, by the looks of thing.  Beings that are capable of having telephone conversations with humans but are unable to actually tell us anything of value because (sigh) they're so much more advanced look suspiciously like the inventions of a writer unable to think things through.  And anyway ... moths of death?  Maybe it's just Pellington's ineptitude as a director, but the idea does nothing for me. "},{"Title":"A bore","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A silly, meandering excuse for a horror movie which wastes the talents of a good director and some good actors.  The atmosphere keeps you involved for about 40 minutes and then it just gets stupider and duller as it goes along.  And if you believe this is based on a true story, I have several bridges I'm about to put up for sale.  Not even recommended as a rainy night rental. "},{"Title":"An uncomprehensible story.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a weak fantasy-thriller.  Richard Gere (John Klein) is not convincing at all.  What are the Mothman? There are some moments in the movie that I wonder if I should laugh or be frightened.  At the end nobody knows if it is all real or just fake.  A movie which received a strong promotion but which did not deserve it. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a great movie this is. Starring Richard Gere, I thought it's gonna be a huge disappointment but guess what? Richard Gere provides us with one of the best performances I've seen in recent years. Laura Linney is at her level as always. L&G this movie is brilliant. No flaws. The score was great. The directing was perfect, maybe better than in Arlington Road(which is one of my all time faves). Good acting, good script. The best movie I saw this year and also one of the rare 2000's masterpieces. This is a must see movie. I hope that academy isn't gonna overlook this movie. If a miracle happens and 5 better movies than this one get released, this must be the toughest contender for an academy award. But usually academy goes for craps like American Beauty and LotR.10/10 "},{"Title":"Not even worth the rental.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  As a kid, I was something of a fanatic when it came to the paranormal.  I was so excited to hear that one of my favorite stories, the Mothman, was going to be turned into a movie.  I can't stress my disappointment in the film.  The film barely had anything related to the real alleged events around the Mothman, and the Mothman itself is barely even mentioned.  The film goes on weird tangents that I can't recall ever being part of the alleged Mothman, and much of the story is fabricated to make more sense of the little events that they did use.  The obligatory romance between the two characters in the movie adds nothing to the story at all, as it's barely touched upon, and makes one wonder why it was needed at all.  As for the story, much of it is predictable.  The film could have been cut down from half an hour to an hour.  Probably one of the worst aspects of the film itself was the editing and directing.  Throughout the film, many of the shots linger for far too long on very unimportant details.  All in all, after I saw the film, I became more interested in the mystery of how this film received financing, rather than the mystery of the Mothman. "},{"Title":"Not scary enough","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I went into this one thinking it was a monster movie. It was not. It was overly dark, the music was way too ominous, and there were few scares. The surprise ending helped, but didn't save, this odd little film. Gere is clearly out of his element. I watched parts of it again today on video, and it definitely looks better on TV than it did in the theater. That's gotta help. I at least want the thing to make back its money. I like the idea of big stars doing thrillers, even if they don't always work.    "},{"Title":"Slow and Boring","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I almost fell asleep 3 times watching this.  You just want to tell them to get out of park on this one.  Plus the inconsistencies are to numerous to mention.  It's ridiculous, especially after they tell you this was based on true events.  Swing and a miss....you want spooky like this movie is trying to do then rent Sixth Sense or The Others "},{"Title":"Slow and Boring","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I almost fell asleep 3 times watching this.  You just want to tell them to get out of park on this one.  Plus the inconsistencies are to numerous to mention.  It's ridiculous, especially after they tell you this was based on true events.  Swing and a miss....you want spooky like this movie is trying to do then rent Sixth Sense or The Others "},{"Title":"Too much ridiculous exposition, not enough Mothman","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This should be called `Being Afraid  and Paranoid of Small Towns.' Where  the heck was the Mothman? Talk  about a jip! So much was wasted on  this film, especially when it had so much  potential. Instead of trying to fuel fear within  the infamous mythical creature, it was  avoided and debunked like some  unsatisfying episode of The X-Files. Why  didn't they mention the fact that workers  at Chernobyl saw the Mothman flying  around in the clouds after the explosion?  Or the other countless premonitions? Or  what about the short time when the Mothman  was cited a dozen times in less than a year?  What a waste.  "}{"Title":"Poor Handling of a Paranormal Subject","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film was 40 minutes of storyline crammed into 2 hours of movie. Considering the subject, it was a rather boring movie. I was able to stay with it using couple of beers while I was vegging on the couch (there was nothing else on TV). The cinematography totally distracted you from the storyline (why can't they just anchor the camera. Even the ending which was supposed to be the point of the whole movie was anti-climactic. Richard Gere's performance was at an abysmal low in this film. Spending two hours of screen time looking confused and dazed isn't really acting. He should have starred in Clueless. I guess filming it in West Virginia made it scary enough. This one was one step up from Blair Witch. Don't waste your money even renting this turkey. "},{"Title":"an X-Files reject script","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film tries to be like an X-Files episode, but it isn't that good. It says it is based on a true story, well I have a hard time believing all those things happened in real life. I'm sure they didn't because if it had, I would have heard about it before now. Obviously, the director and writer made up a bunch of stuff to try to make it more creepy. Well, I think it would have been better if it hadn't been based on a true story. I'd rather they just use their imagination.The acting is OK, but the story just never creates much tension. I would have liked to see more red eyes in the dark or something like that.FINAL VERDICT  Nothing special. It doesn't give out a creepy vibe. Instead rent a movie like Signs, now that will creep you out. "},{"Title":"horror?","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is a horror movie, that has absolutely no suspense, is not creepy or scary at all, just incredibly boring. It's story is pure nonsense, the actors try their best but fail. In short A mess. Better watch X-Files, it's the same mystery crap, but you won't waste as much time. "},{"Title":"I Predict a Lukewarm Response","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Though ostensibly based on real life events, `The Mothman Prophecies' emerges as a fairly average supernatural thriller &#150; sort of like `The Bridge of San Luis Rey' with psychic overtones.Richard Gere stars as John Klein, a political reporter for `The Washington Post' who finds himself caught up in a mystery even more compelling than the ones he is used to investigating while covering his D.C. political beat (like how certain Congressmen manage to keep getting voted back into office election cycle after election cycle, despite scandals of every make, type and variety.  Now there's a REAL mystery worth trying to figure out!).But I digress.  It seems that Klein's wife, before her death from a brain tumor, has become obsessed with sketching images of a strange `mothman' she apparently saw moments before a near-fatal car crash in which she and Joe were involved.  After her death, Klein finds himself miraculously transported to a place called Pleasant Point, West Virginia where, it appears, virtually the entire town has been suffering under the same mass delusion as Joe's wife.`The Mothman Prophecies' manages to establish a moderately creepy atmosphere at times, but those looking for genuine suspense may be disappointed.  The plotting is just intriguing enough to sustain our interest through most of the film's running time and the movie never gets as downright silly as its bare-boned storyline might suggest.  However, the film leaves some rather gaping holes in its narrative fabric &#150; enough to make us question what exactly this mothman is supposed to be.  By the end of the film we are not even sure if it is a benevolent force sent to warn people of possible dire catastrophes (that one seems unlikely since only one person in the entire film is saved from doom as the result of his/its endeavors), a neutral force that only makes predictions of disasters that cannot be staved off, or a malevolent force that causes bad things to happen to the poor people who innocently wander across its path.  It is often a sign of a good thriller when it does not spell out every last answer for the audience &#150; ambiguity often being a virtue in this genre &#150; but we could at least expect that the force would work with some kind of discernible consistency.  Basically, all it does is scare the be'Jesus out of people for no discernible point or purpose.Laura Linney, from last year's `You Can Count on Me' gives a warm performance as the town's seemingly one-person police force, but one wonders when, if ever, Richard Gere will choose a vehicle that actually might challenge his skills as an actor and stop settling for all these bringing-home-a-paycheck roles.  A superstar can rest on his laurels only so long before audience goodwill turns to hostility and outright rejection. With `The Mothman Prophecies,' Gere seems to have more than passed that point. "},{"Title":"Mothman is Innocent, OK?","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Mothman Prophecies deals with certain events which occurred in or near the small town of Point Pleasant, West Virginia, in 1966 and 1967. In November 1966 there were several alleged sightings of large, humanoid creatures with moth-like wings and glowing red eyes, dubbed mothmen by the media. These sightings continued for several months into 1967. In December 1967 the town's Silver Bridge across the Ohio River collapsed, killing 46 people. These events were later the subject of a book by John Keel called The Mothman Prophecies, from which the film takes its name. Keel claimed that the mothmen were linked, in some paranormal way, to the bridge disaster. He suggested that they were extraterrestrial beings, and the British version of his book (which I remember coming across as a boy) was actually titled Visitors from Space. More sceptical commentators suggested that they might actually be large birds, possibly Sandhill Cranes or some species of owl.The film presents a fictionalised version of these events and updates them from the sixties to the present day. The main character, John Klein, is a political journalist from Washington DC. After his wife Mary dies of a brain tumour, he finds a collection of drawings made by her shortly before her death, showing strange moth-like creatures. Two years later, Klein is driving from his home to Richmond, Virginia, when he inexplicably finds himself 400 miles off course in Point Pleasant. He finds that the town is in the grip of fear, following a series of sightings of strange creatures, along with weird lights and phone calls. When he sees a drawing of one of the creatures made by a local resident, he realises that they are identical to the ones in his wife's pictures. Klein starts to investigate with the help of Connie, a local policewoman, and Alexander Leek, an expert on the paranormal. (The name Leek is Keel spelled backwards). Leek believes that the mothmen are manifestations of a mysterious supernatural entity named Indrid Cold and that they are the harbingers of a disaster threatening the town.The mood of the whole film is one of ambiguity, with no real explanation of the mothmen (who are only seen in very brief glimpses) being provided. The one thing one can say about the film-makers' intentions is that they incline towards a supernatural rather than a rationalistic explanation. This is perhaps predictable; films debunking claims of the paranormal are not normally good box-office, so it was never likely that this one was going to end with Klein discovering that what local people had seen were in fact barn owls all along. Not only, however, does the film fail to provide a rational explanation of the mothman phenomenon, it also fails to provide a coherent supernatural one. We never discover whether the mothmen are benign entities trying to warn mankind of impending disaster, or malign ones actively seeking to bring that disaster about, or neither.Ambiguity in itself is not necessarily a bad thing in a film of this type. There are many horror films which become all the more effective precisely because they can conjure up an atmosphere of mystery and doubt, hinting at vague, undefined terrors without ever showing us them directly. A good example is Roger Corman's The Tomb of Ligeia in which we are never sure whether Vincent Price's wife really has returned from the grave or whether she is merely a hallucination conjured up by his distraught mind.The Mothman Prophecies, is probably intended to work in this way, but in my view never really succeeds. The atmosphere it conjures up is not so much one of nameless dread but rather one of an intellectual puzzle without a solution. The reason is possibly because its subject-matter is so much less familiar than that of other supernatural dramas. Ask the man on the Clapham Omnibus, or his counterpart on the Manhattan subway, if he believes in angels, demons, ghosts or fairies, and he will understand what is meant by those concepts even if he does not so believe. Ask him if he believes in mothmen and, unless he has read Keel's book or other works on the subject, he will probably have no idea what you are talking about.There are some good things about the film. The main parts are well played by Richard Gere as Klein, Laura Linney as Connie, Alan Bates as Leek and Will Patton as Gordon Smallwood, one of the local people who has seen the mothmen. The final scenes showing the collapse of the bridge are well done, and certainly the most frightening part of the film. Nevertheless, my overall impression was that this was a film which tried too hard to make something spooky and mysterious out of a tragedy which, in reality, had a rational explanation. Although it was supposedly based on real events, the film took liberties with the facts when they did not fit in with its supernatural theme. For example, it did not state that not all the supposed mothman sightings took place in Point Pleasant; they were also reported from in and around the State capital, Charleston.More seriously, the film ends with the untrue claim that the collapse of the Silver Bridge has never been explained. An investigation after the disaster found that the cause was the failure of a single eye-bar in a suspension chain. It was also noted that the bridge was carrying much heavier loads than it was originally designed for and was poorly maintained. It would appear that the mothmen, whether they were in fact cranes, owls, extraterrestrials, supernatural entities or figments of the imagination, were not to blame. Mothman is innocent, OK? 5/10 "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Quite possibly the worst movie I've ever seen.  I kept waiting for it to get better, and it only got worse.  Drawn out cliches of strange voices on the phone and people hearing things.  Absolutely no point, no suspense, no storyline.  Completely worthless - don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Only for the most gullible paranormal flick junkies","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is based on true events like PeeWee Herman is based on Arnold Schwarzenegger. The film tells of a Washington Post reporter (Gere) who wanders into a W.VA. town where he is accommodated beyond all reason by a local sheriff (Linney) in an investigation into paranormal events having to do with a mysterious mothman creature thingy. Stylish to the point of interfering with the spooky atmospherics with characters obviously acting out a prescribed plot, Mothman... is a hokey bit of Hollyweird flotsam only for the most avid sci-fi/horror/thriller junkies. And don't worry, you won't be needing any mothballs to watch this polished nonsense. "},{"Title":"OMFG","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Do not go see this movies no matter what anyone above me says.   They might have been interested in this movie for the sole reason that it is about the mothman and they were interested in this LEGEND before the movie was made.    Yeh, it was a neat idea but they did a bad job,  It is not scary, and very very slow...  Movies are sopposed to have things that keep you on the edge of your seat.  This movie had me sitting back and looking around the theater. ( I usualy do not do that)Do not see this movie unless you have free movie tickets or somehting, and in that case make sure you bring a girl so you can mess around while the movie is going on.jon  "},{"Title":"Great potential, ruined by the director","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a tough one. I personally found the story really intriguing and even though it did not go in the expected direction, I really enjoyed the story, which was original and smart and interesting.Still, the film lost me. The shorts were badly dine, the cuts strange, there werespecial effects (the colour changed from time to time), and that all made it impossible to watch.who would show an intriguing scene from the monster's perspective? i most certainly would not, and they should not have done it here, repeatedly.It was sad to see how a brilliant script can be turned into an unwatchable film.So even though I would love to give this one a 10 - a 4 seems fair to me. I really hope that they will do a remake, for I believe that this could be one of the big horror films, if it only were done differently. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was so excited to see this coming on TV. Good TV, no commercials, no cutting, the full movie. Actually had famous people in it. Had great viewer reviews. Woohoo!!After one hour I was so bored, I thought something has to happen any minute now. 30 more minutes, nothing. 20 more minutes, nothing. Whoever said this was good, scary, horror, thriller, interesting, entertaining, worth the watch for any reason at all -- sure doesn't expect much from a movie. It was sooo boring, a nap in an ant hill would have been less painful and more interesting. Even in the middle of the night, by yourself, out in the woods in a tent with spooky bloody snarly howling all around you, the hook hanging from your car door handle is a better story than this stupid movie. Don't waste you time. "}{"Title":"Horror? Not by a long shot","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  3 out of 10This is a little chilling, but if you're expecting a mothman flying around-you are sadly mistaken (so was I!). I ask for a hairy insect terrorizing people and what do I get? A freak that won't show himself and goes by the name Indrid Cold. Indrid Cold? This is boring, more a drama than a horror and even for a fantasy than a horror! Do not rent this for scares. It's actually a little interesting as a fantasy-a dark fantasy. Rent it as that, not something scary.Indrid Cold? "},{"Title":"One of the dumbest movies I have seen in a long time","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OVERALL MOVIE RATING * star. (Out of **** stars.)THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES REVIEWNot only did this movie not scare me at all, but to make it even worse, it was really boring. I could not anywhere in this movie find the 'terror' that it mentions having. One of the dumbest movies I have seen in a long time, this movie deserves no award whatsoever due to it being so utterly stupid.The Mothman Prophecies plot is about John Klein. His wife died a few years back and shortly before she did, she claimed to have seen a strange creature. Years later, John goes to a town called Pointe Pleasant to investigate other people who have claimed to seen the same creature.The plot of this movie is not the problem, the problem is the fact it never got any more interesting, if anything it got more boring. This movie seems like something that should have been shown as a TV movie. I mean, parts of this movie got so boring I almost fell asleep a few times. The only thing that kept me awake was the hope to see some special effects that were actually cool. I finally got to see one at the end, to my amazement.This movie had some OK acting I suppose, I thought Gere did a good job with his character and gave John Klein a little more depth, but it didn't save the movie or give something more really. The writing was OK, I would have preferred to have seen some more special effects instead of just seeing talking throughout the entire movie.Basically, this is one of the worst movies and I recommend skipping it at all costs. This movie was so dumb I cannot believe that it even made it into theaters. If you happen to be a fan of the star, skip this movie and watch Primal Fear (1996) or something. "},{"Title":"Should it be a horror film?","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  OK, most of the emotion of this movie would be felt only thinking that, Wow, it really happened!. Considering that a lot of events of non-natural origin are the main theme of the plot, it can, at most, make you fell curious, but to fell fear, you need to be very sensitive...Gere tried acting in a unique performance, considering his dramatic qualities. I should say that the succeed. Comparing to a very similar plot - the connection of the stories is huge - Kevin Costner's Dragonfly is worse. "},{"Title":"Urban Moths","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Based entirely on a true story, The Mothman Prophecies opens with a spectacular outer space sfx extravaganza as the mighty space cocoon transporting the thousand legions of Mothmen from the planet Moth-Ra, breaks up in the heat from our sun. Their sanctuary cruelly destroyed, the Mothmen helplessly pour out into space. Hundreds burn up on entering the Earth's atmosphere. Only one - the Mothman of the title (Tim Curry) survives, drifting down into a remote town in small-town America.Enter retired pest controller John Klein (Richard Gere - in his funniest role since 'Red Corner'). Initially reluctant to have anything to do with insects after he his failure to combat an attack on the town by a giant crab led to the death of several residents ten years before, Klein overcomes his fears after complaints of a giant moth circling around neon lights are made by several local night-club owners who fear loss of commercial revenue from the signs being obscured. Some of the most enjoyable scenes arise from the Mothman's prophecies themselves. Speaking only in his own unique moth language, the Mothman predicts a range of future events including the relative decline in screen actor Kevin Costner's movie career, the ultimate failure of Newt Gingrich's 'Contract With America' to the premature cancellation of acclaimed teen drama 'My So Called Life' (the film, based on true events, is set in 1994).Perhaps inevitably, however, the Mothman grows to be a nuisance, leading to the erection of a giant light-bulb in the centre of the town into which he is fatally drawn to his death. I've never actually seen this film, but I'd certainly recommend it. Out of 100, I give it 83.224756291  "},{"Title":"Different but not scary","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsAlledgedly based on a real-life event,TMP is a film shrouded in mystery.And it sends off in mystery,with the viewer never finding out some important mysteries from the film.There is a mysterious and creepy atmosphere to the film,and Richard Gere is fairly impressive as a man compelled to learn the truth about something he cannot fully comprehend himself.But for some reason,the film is never scary at any point,even with the true-story moniker accompanying it.At least from this viewpoint.*** "},{"Title":"Based on true events?","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film is made adequately and the actors are fine but the fact that its supposedly based on true events to me makes it worse. It reeks of forced storytelling. Its like, Hey, this is kind of true so don't make to much fun of it but the truth is its absolutely unbelievable. The filmmakers can say all they want but I'm not buying it.  "},{"Title":"The Mothman Prophesies' is not great art-just a treat for a regular X-Files fan.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 'The Mothman Prophecies' is an X-Files-like trip into the paranormal, disorienting and interesting.  Why?  Because a young couple in real life saw a bird-like creature with little red eyes as they were making out on a lonely road, and because the Pt. Pleasant bridge between Ohio and West Virginia did buckle and break with no satisfactory reason.Except that a strange mothman did stalk that town and predict tragedy. If you like some of the old sci-fi's about strange creatures, precognition, and an astral world underneath ours, joined to a sometimes affecting performance by `You Can Count on Me's' dimpled sheriff, Laura Linney, then relax and see this B thriller.  Richard Gere is competent, underplaying in order to heighten the suspense or from lack of talent.`Arlington Road's' Mark Pellington directs with cool understanding of the slow tension this genre requires (it takes at least a half hour before the mothman arrives).  He knows how to compose for creepiness and edit for eeriness.Recently a young man in Pennsylvania reported seeing the mothman, but he couldn't discuss it because he was still traumatized by the sighting.`The Mothman Prophesies' is not great art-just a treat for a regular X-Files fan. And Gere doesn't sleep with Linney, proving there is truth out there. "},{"Title":"not real","Date":"22 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I guess many reviews might have been exposed about this film already by the time this note is finished, nevertheless I think that what I'm about to say will still be useful for those who have just discovered the film and are about to see it. This film is just a fiction story and as such it should be considered and evaluated, the sentence based on true events is just a nonsense phrase because you can't consider the allegations of one man (tale or story in which the film is based) that has no other factual proof than his own word as a true event, I mean come on, If I say I've just seen a guy from another galaxy and somebody finds that interesting and makes a movie out of it the only true event in such situation could simply be my own hallucinations. To be honest with the audience they should use something like based on people's experiences and that's it. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Having always had an interest in psi phenomena, & having read many of Keel's books & essays in magazines, I wanted to see it to see if Hollywood could actually make a decent film of a genuinely interesting phenomenon- whether a true encounter with the unknown, or as myth-in-the-making. The film starts off in late 1999 with Washington Post political reporter John Klein (Gere- 1 of America's hammiest actors) & his wife Mary (Debra Messing from TV's 'Will & Grace') looking to buy a house in the DC area. Driving home they are in an accident when Mary swerves off the road after having a vision of some red-eyed creature coming toward their car. She hits her head, is hospitalized, & found to have some tumor that could warp her perceptions. A few weeks later she dies. Gere weeps, but discovers his wife filled a notebook with the creature she saw- some dark angelic being. Gere is solemnity itself. 2 years pass & he's on his way south from DC to go to Richmond, Virginia to interview a possible Presidential candidate the state's governor. Driving at night he somehow ends up 400 miles west of his destination- in Point Pleasant, West Virginia. His car breaks down & he knocks on the door of a house. Gordon & Denise Smallwood (Will Patton & Lucinda Jenney) answer. Gordon pulls a gun on John & holds him prisoner in his bathtub until town cop Connie Parker (Laura Linney) arrives. She convinces the Smallwoods to let John go. They claim he has harassed them the past few nights. Connie takes John to stay at a motel & the next day his car is towed, but turns out to be in perfect working order. Mysterious music & MTV-like film cuts intone this, & every hum-drum occasion&#133;. This is a film too bad to be good & too good to be so bad it's good. DULL is the watchword, unless watching Richard Gere's Shatnerian reactions to a phone ringing is your idea of edge-of-the-seat horror. That Mothman never makes an appearance would be fine if the film gave us something else, or kept a mystery worth keeping- but nada. & this is perhaps the only 'action' film I can recall where a gratuitous love story would have improved the tale. Laura Linney's Connie is the only character developed to any emotional or deep extent, or which induces any concern. She radiates a down-home sensuality, yet John never makes a move, even after saving her. Not even a peck on the cheek. Loser! "},{"Title":"What is there supposed to be so-called scary??","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Nothing.But there's another, better question what are empty houses for? To immediately have an instant sex there! When at the beginning of any movie a male and a female have sex (as if they'd been impatiently waiting for the movie to begin in order only to finally get a chance to have sex; now, haven't they done it before?? Do characters in movies always start as virgins?), so, when he and she have sex, in most cases it means we're going to be watching a heterosexual man challenged to prove and re-confirm not only his heterosexuality, but the heterosexuality of the whole (female) world. In The Mothman Prophecies, too, the male reasons thus since I am a male, I am heterosexual, and whatever females do - even if they die or leave or get in danger - they do so merely in order to let me be and look like a heterosexual. So, Mothman's prophecies actually hit it right! The woman will call. Even if you don't pick up the phone, even if you disconnect it, the woman will keep calling, either from the otherworld, or from below the water. Because the movie must reassure its male viewers, and teach its female ones, that the sole reason for a female to exist (or disappear!) in this world is her desire for a male, and that her interest in males is permanent and essential. I want you to be happy. = I give you a license to be a heterosexual and to get yourself (another) woman. Richard Gere is relieved the Mothman has assured him that all a woman is thinking about is - he himself. A woman is and must be permanently and unquestionably interested in (and dependant on!) male. And the audiences stay heterosexual. The scariest part thus begins where the movie ends.1 (awful). "}{"Title":"A Geniuenly Scary Movie...missing quite a lot.","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Stars Richard Gere, Laura Linney, Will Patton, Alexander Leek, Murphy Dunne and Debra Messing.Even though I gave this movie a 6, I do recommend this if you want to see something scary. The plot of this movie is about a bunch of freak occurrences happening and an unknown creature, only to be described in pictures as a moth that is somehow involved in prophecising these events. John Kline (Gere) has just recently suffered through his wife's death and is now mysteriously going off at night and finding himself at the same house every night.This is one of those movies that really gets your interest and brings you deep into the plot. Unfortunately, it is also one of those films that gets too far into the plot, and when we get to the climax, we never do know quite what happened. It makes you think about what happened, but in the end you just want to know, instead of thinking for two hours later.As for the actors, all the acting is great. The direction is actually quite stylish. I have nothing to complain about in anything, but the confusing ending. I recommend this for some very scary stuff, and for some thought provoking stuff, but I found this to be a mixed bag in the end.My rating 2 out of 4 stars. 120 mins. PG-13 for Scary Moments and Sexuality. "},{"Title":"Is It Over Yet?","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The movie took so long in trying to pick up the pace that my mind started playing games with Richard Gere's face He could play George Dubya Bush!I didn't read the book, and that is a shame, because it had to have been more substantial than what turned out for me to be simply an hour and a half wait for a bridge on the Ohio River to collapse. Sure, there were a couple of scarey moments that woke me from my slumber, but these were not much more than gratuitous abrupt loud noises to remind us that this movie is supposed to be a thriller.Suspenseful, yes, but less suspenseful than the bridge, which ultimately collapsed under the pressure of dead weight and inertia!And don't play that childish based on a true story jig! Mothman is about as factual as Amityville Horror. How come the rest of us never heard this story, if it really happened? No need to continue with this, you may return to your Washington Post now, and articles written by bored, shallow reporters who know how to exploit rural America. "},{"Title":"Ok so not too scarey","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this film. My girlfriend fell asleep. I think that captures the essence of what it is like to watch this. It is mind-numbingly boring in places and worthy of sleep yet in others it really starts to grab you, although almost always seems to never quite hold up and drops you into boredom soon afterwards!The strange timelines and flashbacks are somewhat confusing although entertaining. The way that all the countryfolk have no teeth and look like they all came from the same egg is hilarious, although I am sure the real people don't quite see it that way!To sum up.If you want a good horror...this isn't it.If you want a tame horror with a story....this might be it.If you want a tame horror that might put you to sleep...this is it!I give it a 5. Don't ask why - I just got over watching 'Evil Dead IIIArmy Of Darkness' and believe me, in comparison to that this SHOULD have got a 10! "},{"Title":"Murky, confused thriller that fails to satisfy.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Back in the 1970s, many years before 'The X Files' placed such things smack bang in the middle of mainstream pop culture, I read about the so-called Mothman and was fascinated. So much so that when I heard about this movie I was looking forward to seeing it despite the fact that I thought Mark Pellington's previous movie 'Arlington Road' was rubbish, and that it starred Richard Gere and Laura Linney, two actors I have no interest in whatsoever. ( I must say I do like Will Patton a lot, and his performance is by far the best) Well, the movie managed to make the rich source material into a murky, confused and mostly dull story. Pellington, like so many contemporary directors, has a background in music video, and doesn't give the impression that working with a good script is high on his list of priorities. The movie never seems sure of what it is really about, or what it is trying to achieve, and by the end of the movie after the surprise climax which you'll see coming a mile off, you are left with an empty, unsatisfying feeling. 'Donnie Darko' was a different kind of movie but still showed how similar mind-bending ideas can be made into an original and effective movie. 'Donnie Darko' had a good script, 'The Mothman Prophecies' doesn't, and that is the movie's fatal flaw. Don't bother.  "},{"Title":"Suspenseful","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This film disturbed me with the questions it asked.  What if there is evil out there, and it involves death?  Would we be able to understand it?  The answer is No.  Many of the questions Richard Gere has in this movie will not be answered, and he learns to get on with his life.  His stay in this small town is unpleasant, the the story builds until the dramatic conclusion.  I will not ruin this film for the first time viewer, but I sure would not answer the phone after seeing this film. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it should have been!","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film has a lot going for it. Excellent premise, great production values, fine acting, and I love films set in small American towns! Also, the denouement is suitably dramatic and well done. (Though the big rescue is fairly clich.) Yet, I still want MORE! It seems like the pacing, perhaps the editing, is a bit screwed up. Bottom line, we are left, at times, with Gere sitting in a motel room waiting for phone calls, which just doesn't get my motor revved. And the scary just ain't that scary.The only excuse for this would be that they were sticking with the book, but other reviewers have pointed out that they didn't really stick with the book.I'm glad I saw this film; it's just that it could have been a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Get your UTPB today!","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This mysterious and spooky film always reminds me of my first and most irritating college roommate, the absolutely gay Kenny C. Odd I know, but the thing was he grew up very close to the town most of this movie takes place in, Point Pleasant, West Virginia, and upon seeing a commercial for the movie for the first time, even before the title was revealed, he knew what the movie was about. That's right, folks, this movie's based on true urban legends that were turned into one big urban legend tortilla and wrapped around a character played by Richard Gere to make an Unexplainably Tortured Protagonist Burrito (I've been working at Tumbleweed too long). I've never really believed dribble like the spirits of the dead trying to contact loved ones through seemingly evil ways, and I don't think the actors honestly believe it either; they may say they do in interviews, but their forced performances reveal everything. The movie itself does not do too bad on the creepout-o-meter though, and it's probably come the closest of any movie to actually making me worry about my well-being when mixed with the supernatural (still, not a lot of worry). My favorite scene happens in the first half of the movie when wildly paranoid Will Patton threatens to shoot wildly confused Gere, who stops by the house for directions/closure. This scene is when the movie is least hokey, and actually felt heart-pumping. The big climactic ending is pretty memorable as well... at the risk of giving away any twists, I'll tell you it involves a bridge and wrapped gifts... yeah... Also, Richard Gere is a mediocre actor and a really dumb person. "},{"Title":"It is amazing how good a trailer can make a dumb movie look!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for this movie in theaters, I couldn't wait for the chance to see it.  This looked like a really cool film.  I begged a friend to come with me telling her it would be awesome, BOY DID I ASSUME TO MUCH.The opening of the movie is way too long, it took about fifteen minutes to even get some sort of plot start.  The plot from there is choppy and boring (or at least until the end when everything makes sense).  The makers of the movie could have done a lot more to keep the audience entertained, while still trying to keep the mystery and suspense there.Bottom Line  Not entertaining enough, not suspenseful enough, and definately not anything the trailer shows.1/10 "},{"Title":"Odd, effective thriller","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Richard Gere plays a happily married Washington Post reporter.  One dark night, he's in a car crash with his wife (Debra Messing) when something big and black passes in front of their speeding car.  He's fine, she's hospitalized and later dies.  Two years later Gere (somehow) drives to a remote town in West Virginia where people are seeing a big, black thing resembling a giant moth roaming around.  And then people start receiving strange, spooky phone calls.  And Gere starts seeing his dead wife...A creepy, eerie horror film.  At times it's a little slow, and ends with many questions left unanswered.  Still if works beautifully due to eerie sound effects (the phone calls and a really scary conversation Gere has with...well, I don't want to give it away); dark direction by Mark Pellington (basically the same thing he did with Arlington Road) and an excellent performance by Gere.  Messing is in the film briefly, but she makes an impact.  Laura Linney, surprisingly, is only so-so as a cop helping Gere.Basically a really good scare film.  No blood, violence, gore or sex but it doesn't joke around and really starts to work on you.  Not for children (despite the PG-13 rating).   "},{"Title":"A very interesting, if inconclusive, ghost story","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am not a skeptic, but I do like to look for the most logical explanations of paranormal events. Skeptics, on the other hand, look for equally preposterous 'real' explanations for stuff that humans perhaps just don't understand.The Mothman Prophecies is full of mystery and subversion. Some parts of it could be explained, but negated by others. It's far-fetched but directed with such sombre timing that the unbelievable slowly creeps up on you. Ghost stories (yes, I am aware that the Mothman is not a ghost but I don't know what else to call him) are, by their very nature, far-fetched and this is probably why most people are eager to dismiss them. But most people fail to remember that their very existence in this Universe is the most far-fetched thing of all. There is an infinity out there than man does not/will never understand. It's arrogance to think that we've got our world figured out already and dismiss anything that doesn't fit in with our day to day lives.So yes, I am inclined to believe in stuff like the Loch Ness Monster, Bigfoot, the Skunk Ape and Little Green Men. Like the movie said, the Mothman has appeared in scriptures and literature of many cultures worldwide for thousands of years. Apparently the book on which the movie is based has more stories of strange happenings and info on Indrid Cold (who is probably the most puzzling, enigmatic character since the Mystery Man from Lost Highway), so it's perhaps a good idea to check it out if you were intrigued by the movie.Director Mark Pellington creates a spooky and haunting Xmas atmosphere and uses the widescreen frame brilliantly. Occasionally he'll throw in a subliminal shot of the Mothman (sometimes obvious, sometimes subtle) or use bizarre imagery to heighten the sense of dread or mystery. It's very well edited and has a lot more class and sophistication than many recent corny PG-13 'horrors' like The Skeleton Key or The Forgotten. In many respects, Mothman is a lot like The Ring in terms of moody atmosphere and cryptic messages. But Mothman, while not a perfect film, is certainly the better of the two.My main problem is that nothing is really wrapped up. I mean I know it cannot be fully explained because no one knows what the Mothman is or who Indrid Cold was but maybe there was more explained or suggested in John A. Keel's book (the man who Richard Gere's character was based on) than the movie featured.Overall, it's a pretty good film and I look forward to Mark Pellington's next movie as I've been impressed with his work on this and Arlington Road so far. "}{"Title":"Mystery and Suspense Abound","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I rented this movie because it was recommended by a friend some time ago. After reading the movie's brief description, I was mildly intrigued but was also skeptical about whether the film would actually be any good. I figured it couldn't hurt to take a chance, especially in light of the fact that many of the blockbuster films I had seen lately were flops in my opinion.The Mothman Prophecies is a story about a reporter, John Klein (played by Richard Gere), and the paranormal. He and his wife (Debra Messing from Will & Grace) just finish buying a new home. Driving home that evening, their car collides with a bizarre creature and John's wife is suddenly diagnosed with a brain tumor. Two years after the death of his wife, John is a star reporter. But a late night trip ends up taking him in a direction he never expected and on the trail of something bigger than any story he's ever come across before.You will probably find yourself asking why a lot in this film, just as I did. This film starts off with a few big why's that, in the end, I never felt were really answered. But this is also part of the film's objective. It attempts to show that sometimes things just happen and can't be helped. But what makes this film truly unique is in introducing a precognitive supernatural element into human tragedy. All of this flows through the film as one big mystery and is meant to stay that way. I can't go into too many details without spoiling the film, but let's just say that the itching in the back of your brain to discover more is the director's way of putting you right in the main character's seat. You have to learn to let those feelings go with this story.I cannot stress enough the phenomenal job at suspense that director Mark Pellington did. He's now on my director's A-list. The cast is wonderfully picked (Richard Gere, Will Patton, and Laura Linney) and some intense emotion is injected through their roles. The location and temperature were great and one of the ending shots was almost beautiful, while sadly memorable. Good creepiness accompanies the suspense, but this film is not horrific or gory.For a film that I thought was going to go down the path of Mimic, I was pleasantly surprised. If ever a film could do justice to supernatural sightings and bizarre happenings with all of the suspense and wonder that keeps you guessing (and interested and thinking), The Mothman Prophecies does it quite well. If you liked Signs then rent this one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Motheyes","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I love it when this happens -- when the presentation of the film matches the content and tone of the story.The actual story is slight, but it is given texture by the fact that so much is unexplained, there's more that just doesn't make sense. Rather than a weakness, it adds texture to the mystery. Because we are not supposed to know. And so it is with Gere's character he has moments where some part is lucid to him, but most is not. Some of his deductions are wrong, but in general, his moments of knowledge are mere islands in a sea of confusionAnd so also with us the viewer, and here is the good part. Pellington has really come into his own as a master of the camera. What he has done is give us moments of visual clarity in a sea of confusing movement in which we can't make sense. The visual method of the story reflects the content of the story.Great, just great. "},{"Title":"X-Files rip-off that ask a lot of questions but answers few.","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A Washington journalist loses his wife to an auto accident and becomes intrigued by the strange angel-like images she drew while dying in her hospital bed.The world of film can take any approach to real events it wants as long as it wants to be honest and aboveboard about things. This product is very dishonest in that it wants to play on a real tragedy, but spins so much fiction around it that it might as well be a complete work of fiction. Like presenting the sinking of the Titanic as an act of sabotage just because we know there was such a boat and it did sink!Richard Gere is actually a pretty good actor when he is trying. Here he seems only half interested and I have sympathy with him because I would have been the same with this quality of material. Something is happening, but he doesn't know what, but it seems extra terrestrial. However is it a work for good or a force for evil? Puzzled brows all round and no one talk to about it other a small town female cop who thinks he is crazy!Not a great film by any means because there isn't enough happening and too much of what does happen makes little real-world sense. Yes we have a good climax, but that hardly makes up for the clunky and nonsensical route to it. Yes, it creates its own atmosphere, but it takes more than a load of half-lit scenes and weird goings-on to entertain me. That is why I never watch the X Files in the first place. "},{"Title":"Not a bad supernatural story, but the overheated writing and directing nearly sinks it","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" An ancient prophet of doom lures a writer for the Washington Post to a small town in West Virginia (named Point Pleasant!) where a tragedy is soon to befall the community. Handsomely-produced spook-story runs rampant with nonsense, much of it laughable red herrings, ringing phones, hallucinations that serve no purpose, and a supporting character who hears voices coming out of his bathroom sink! In the lead, Richard Gere isn't really invested in this material (and worse, he looks bloated and beady-eyed), but he does keep a straight face, as does Laura Linney as a policewoman who eventually tires of Gere's warnings (something the viewer can instantly identify with). The story, adapted from John Keel's book, is actually quite engrossing, but this screenplay is far too complicated, and the direction too ritzy, to qualify as a satisfying thriller. Alan Bates comes in late in the game as a writer knowledgeable in the Mothman, but he's no help (he tells Gere, You're asking for explanations which can't be explained rationally--gee, thanks). Debra Messing gets shafted early (her big scene as a ghost is only described to us), as does Will Patton (who is supposed to be a regular Joe, but looks crazy the second we meet him), however Linney is attractive and the special effects at the climax are very good. ** from **** "},{"Title":"I Hate Moths","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I don't hate The Mothman Prophecies, but there are similarities between the movie and moths. There's something very alien about a moth, especially the big ones. It's the ridges and the eyes, and the creepy legs, the whole being ickier than the sum of the parts. Yet, you don't want to kill them because they aren't trying to sting you or chomp on you and inject something that makes your skin rot out. You just know that if you pulverize one, there are going to be guts and goo and that powdery yech that gets on everything.The Mothman Prophecies is alien, too. Alien to good film making. I sat through two hours of almost when I watched the flick. The movie just wouldn't settle down and tell a coherent story. Richard Gere was actually a fairly sympathetic character. Laura Linney, a woman of natural beauty and grace, and Gere had some chemistry. Will Patton did his Will Patton thing. Debra Messing was there and gone in a flash. Director Mark Pellington just doesn't seem to know how to tell a really scary story. He wants the narrative to be surreal (we get disjointed) and other-worldly (we just get weirdness). I felt like I was seeing a really bad interpretation of some of Dean Koontz' work. The Mothman comes across as a cousin of Odd Thomas' bodachs, It seems to groove to disaster, but no matter how hard Pellington tries, we can't get involved with what's a'comin' down the pike. So, why is the movie similar to moths? I think it's because humans seem paralyzed by them. The little ones in your lawn are easy to kill, but put any bulk into them, and you want to steer clear. Both the movie and the critters are just too weird and alien to be appreciated. Yet.I saw a huge moth in my house years ago. Our cats were fairly mesmerized, and they wanted to bat the thing down to play with it. They didn't--I let it out into the night air. I didn't want to smash it because I thought the markings on the wings were cool and I wanted to avoid a bunch of argh on the curtain. The movie caught my attention just enough to watch it through to the end, but it was just too odd to really care about. Afterward, I thought of two movies by the guy who did The Sixth Sense, M. Night Shyamalan. Signs and The Village. Would Mothman have been more tolerable with Shyamalan at the helm? I was the one mesmerized by both those movies because Shyamalan knows how to scare you. "},{"Title":"Painful Spoof !!!","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Mark Pellington executes his magic once again! Tackling a very different and difficult subject, the director does an excellent job in creating an entertaining film. We have all at one time or another as children imagined what it would be like to have moth wings. Gere's character represents every person when they have felt depressed, lonely, and helpless, and the freakish moth beastie, their fantasy. Gere's daily frustrations leave him desperate enough to want to be invisible. His comic antics with his newly attained enchanted power are hilarious. Of course, with every great power comes great responsibility. Anyway, just my opinion...nothing else. I rate this movie a 6 however, if it was shot the way i wanted it to be shot, i would have given it a 10.Anyway, guess what? There is a Tamil version of the film called Githan. It Had a different ending from The Mothman Prophecies with all the different songs from a different music director. So It probably had a different screenplay except the mothman formula devised by original producer Ram Gopal Verma. Wonder what ending it had different from Gayab? Did Mr.Mothman get his gal? "},{"Title":"Forced-esq Below Radar Cult Masterpiece.","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Although the following statement isn't really a spoiler - perhaps it should beThe statement is When you hear the credits song-track, you will know the significance of the effort of the production team to tell the story of the Mothman. The credits song-track is a track entitled 'HalfLight' performed by Tomandandy. And, Acredited with some of those lyrics is none other than the films demagogic character Indrid Cold. So, that should tell you about intent regarding this movies production.Those comments notwithstanding, it is about the slickest of its genre ever.To be honest, I rented this movie thinking that it was actually a different film entirely. Its quite something to rent a film with Richard Gere in it, thinking it is actually the film where 'the guy at the end turns into a giant moth!' Most of the way through I was waiting for that - but indeed - I was misinformed regarding another movie, so I had probably a few more amps than most regarding this film.It is cinematically perfect IMO.I won't go on - save to say that , , I want to point out that this movie would have been in pre-production in around the year 2000. Significant insofar that its release was in 2002, 1 year after sept 11 and shortly before Afganistan and Iraq. It does seem to have been - unaffected in a production sense - but this will not in any way deter the message of this movie...It is not-all-that x-files IMO, not once did I think of the X-files as I was watching it.And, it is the best performance of Gere to date, the most underrated actor in cinematic history, along with the most underrated actor ever - Will Paton. Paton's performance here is text book method, but without the heavy haul... Script ...from the SINK! worth noting Patton was also in 4th Contact - so y'see where this guy actually makes movies happen.So, get it out. You will be far from disappointed.Ausdb.PS Yass, Mdm Linny also, but then the scripts these days just aren't out there are they.....? Or what...PPS It gets a 9 because of The Graduate. "},{"Title":"Don't hold your breath","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" TMP is purportedly based on a series of true events that occurred down south in the 1960s, and which have since been exposed as pranks and hysteria among the local yokels involving flying saucers, men in black and a future-predicting creature. It is a so-so thriller about a reporter's search for the truth and which nearly costs him his life. A winged, man-like creature right out of Big Foot or the Jersey devil shows up periodically to predict events to come. Richard Gere as the reporter initially goes after the story with tongue firmly planted in cheek -- until he personally encounters Big Foot -- um, I mean the Mothman. It all leads to a disaster of major impact, done with some good and some bad special effects. The movie has its moments, and Gere is pretty good in what is for him an unusual role. But we never get to see the Mothman, which frankly I believe is a huge mistake. To me, the whole point of the film is to get a look at this legendary creature. It never happens, and the film comes up empty in the end. "},{"Title":"Actual real life events of strange happenings in a small town.","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 2002's The Mothman Prophecies is perhaps one of that years most underrated films, as the film is a good suspense thriller that's interesting and is supposedly based on real life events. Anyone who follows the myths and sci-fi legends is probably familiar with the tales of winged creatures. The story of the film has veteran actor Richard Gere as John Klein a Washington, D.C. journalist for the post who upon getting ready to buy a new home has a tragic fate happen to him that being the death of his wife(Debra Messing). The death happened under mysterious circumstances only the turn happens to become more complex as Mr. Klein's car strangely takes an unexpected turn into a small West Virginia town. After he befriends the local police sergeant(Laura Linney)he learns that this town for years has been hit by strange events and crazy sightings of a moth-like creature one somewhat similar to the one seen by his wife. These sightings lead to a journey of obsession that has everyone looking for answers and thinking about making the right choices for the fate of their life before this town is destroyed. Really a pretty good and underrated sci-fi film that's acted and written really well and it was interesting to see how these supposedly real life events were portrayed. "},{"Title":"The omen","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This a disturbing horror and fantasy film ,with no gore,special effects kept to the minimum,thus a truly absorbing work.Richard Gere proves he can age gracefully and he is given strong support by the always reliable Laura Linney as talented in drama as she is in comedy (The Truman Show ).Rarely Gere has been so moving in this part of a desperate man who just lost his wife and seems to be in search of a reason to believe.A series of bizarre warnings,of threatening details ,of strange deaths seem to forecast something awful is to happen.Emotion to the fore,this is a movie which will appeal to people who like works such as The others unbreakable or the sixth sense. "}{"Title":"Respected Masterpiece of Horror /Thriller","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" A great Movie,A story that will move the feelings of each of us,things that we can't explain though it happening,have you ever thought why ? or Tried to Explain it,Have You thought of devils or Angels and tried to impersonate them?..........A Real Mystery,Not really frightening but the Story abuses your mind....i assure You that you will be Afraid The Movie puts you in a real mystery,You won't Be Able to understand things which Will frighten you more,Real scary,You know like The  Aliens Scenes in Mel Gibson's The Signs.......... Also The Ending wasn't as good or suitable for the Movie,as i think I hope there is a sequel,it will Be as good as Saw Series ) I Recommend this Movie At Mornings..he-he "},{"Title":"A well-made suspenseful thriller","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I always am attracted to items about supernatural phenomena and after reading about the story on which this movie is based, I had to see the movie at any cost. Overall, I was not disappointed, although the movie is not a true factual version of the events in Point Pleasant, W. Va.- in fact, I am not sure whether Richard Gere's character is factual- and I prefer to use the term dramatized rather than fictionalized just because it would have been almost impossible to make a coherent version of the actual events. Nevertheless, the Mothman is real, and the climactic ending was real. The movie never really says what was behind these strange events or that they stopped after the final cataclysmic event. Even with these shortcomings, I still found it to be highly entertaining and well-made movie. Even people who do not like Richard Gere will have to admit he turns in an excellent, highly believable performance. If you enjoy supernatural tales, see this movie! "},{"Title":"guaranteed FEAR & TENSION","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I started to think that i cant watch a movie that really makes my blood freeze.But this movie really makes me iceman.I always like mystery movies.I like the strangers from the other planets or souls want to contact with people or a kid(i am really fed up with the kids in the movies-ring,dark water...) tell people that he/she will die soon.I watched a lot of movies like these but somehow they couldn't do it, every time somethings were wrong.Sometimes it was cast or the too simple scripts.I went to the theater for Mothman Prophecies with these ideas in my mind.But when the movie started to play i said i think they've done it that's it And when the movie finished i was the happiest people in the world for 5 minutes.Nearly 2 hours i tented,scared and sometimes squeezed my friends arm who sits near me.Before i started to tell little things about characters and the story i wanna say that i started to like Richard Gere in this movie.Before this movie i didn't like Richard Gere's acting but with this movie its changed but i think it's not about the acting it's because of the movie.Washington Post reporter John Klein's(Richard Gere) wife died in a car accident.His wife tells him that she saw a mysterious flying creature before the accident.After a short time she dies in the hospital.After that John Klein decide to explore the mystery behind the car accident and he learns terrible things...You have to watch the movie.It is not an only scary movie.Yes it makes you scare but the script is very fine and fascinating.Mothman Prophecies guaranteed fear,tension and anxiety.WATCH IT!!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Portentous thriller with empty heart","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSFollowing the death of his wife in a mysterious traffic accident, a successful journalist (Richard Gere) becomes drawn to the small town of Point Pleasant in West Virginia where sightings of a weird moth-like creature foretell a devastating tragedy...Based on true events which occurred on the Ohio River in 1967, Mark Pellington's portentous drama follows Gere's big-city reporter through a series of strange events in small-town America (eg. his 'first' encounter with farmer Will Patton, his 'telephone conversation' with the Mothman, etc.). Apparently, neither Gere or Pellington were interested in making a conventional 'monster movie', opting instead for a series of bizarre plot twists and sudden shocks, linked to various glimpses of the title creature in a number of clever disguises.Scripted by Richard Hatem (UNDER SIEGE 2) from John A. Keel's non-fiction book (an overview of the entire Mothman phenomenon to date), the film sports a welcome cameo from acting heavyweight Alan Bates as a grizzled professor whose personal encounters with the eponymous Mothman have reduced him to a shadow of his former self, though the narrative loses some of its dramatic momentum around the halfway mark, and the fiery climax barely resonates on an emotional level, perhaps because the characters are mere stick figures, subservient to the unfolding mystery. For all its drawbacks, however, THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES - clearly inspired by the popular success of like-minded chillers THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT (1999) and THE SIXTH SENSE (1999) - is mature, intelligent, and often deeply unsettling, and both Laura Linney (TV's Tales of the City) and Debra Messing (Will & Grace) are excellent in crucial supporting roles. Good title, too. "},{"Title":"People who love the X-Files or suspenseful horror movies will like this one as well","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I like movies that have something mysterious to offer and that has nothing to do with a specific type of movie. It can be horror, a good thriller,... It doesn't really matter. So when being able to watch this promising movie, I didn't hesitate all that much. I only had one reason for doubts Richard Gere. Could he be any good in a movie like this? Well, the answer is yes.John Klein (Richard Gere), a reporter for the Washington Post, and his wife Mary (Debra Messing) have found the house of their dreams. When returning home from their bargain, Mary has an accident when she nearly hits a strange creature that looked a bit like a giant moth or a big man with a cape. John is OK, but Mary has suffered a severe blow on the head. She is rushed to the hospital, but dies a few days later. Soon after her death, John finds some of her sketches of this Mothman. Two years later he suddenly ends up in a town called Point Pleasant. He never needed to be there and has no idea how he traveled those 400 miles in less than two hours, but he soon learns that in this town, more people have seen a strange giant creature that looked like a moth. Of course his interest is sparked, believing that here an explanation can be found for the cause of his wife's death. He starts an investigation and soon learns more and more about the creature, but also about the dangers that go together with these sightings...Of course the movie has its lesser moments, but overall this is a very enjoyable film. Although I had my doubts about it because Richard Gere was in it, I must admit that there are no reasons to question his performance in this movie. He really did a very good job, as did the other actors by the way. Sometimes you think you know an actor and than he surprises you by doing something completely different, well this is a good example of that.I guess that people like me, who like horror movies full of suspense, but (preferably) without gore will love this movie. Also people who like series like the X-Files, may be very interested in this film, because this is the same kind of story. I liked what I saw and that's why I give it a 7.5/10, perhaps even an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Is there any significance to the the name Indrid (or Ingrid) Cold ?","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First, the name the mothman called himself; is it Indrid or Ingrid Cold? Is there any meaning or significance to this name? Was it taken from one of John Keels books or was it just what the writer decided to use. I think I may be reading too much in to this, but I'm just curious. I need to get a life! I truly enjoyed this movie & have watched it several times. They did not say it was based on a true story, just it was based on actual facts with which they created the story around.(Remember Fargo? Great movie I LOVED it. But at the beginning it states that it is a TRUE story when, infact none of it was true!) I like how the mothman entity was presented, it wasn't necessarily evil nor was it good. It neither harmed or helped anyone. It was what it was, & left up to your interpretation.  "},{"Title":"Eerie supernatural thriller","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The plot  A Washington Post investigative reporter (Richard Gere) suddenly finds himself in a town where strange things are happening. Comment  An eerie, well paced supernatural thriller, reminiscent of The X-Files.  Director Mark Pellington builds great tension and athmosphere and manages to hold on to it until the final conclusion, which is not easily spotted.  Acting  Gere is good in the lead, his paranoia is expertly well performed.  Laura Linney is good as well, this time as a small town sheriff.  Will Patton nearly steals the movie in a terrific performance. Interesting  Based on a true story.Verdict  Solid and suspenseful, 3 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Another in my DVD Collection","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This another title in my DVD collection, I have had a few months before I decided to sit down and watch it.What can I say about the film, I really, really liked it, not many films about the supernatural I have seen have a real storyline, I'm glad this one does, well being based on true events it would have to have a storyline.I liked Richard Gere in this, I don't watch many of his  films, but the ones I have seen him in I have enjoyed.I think some of the scenes could have been told in flashback, especially the scenes leading upto Richard Gere's character ending up in Point Pleasant.Some great acting in this movie.I'm a sucker for extras, and really enjoyed the interviews and documentaries, some can be more enjoyable than the film itself.This is really a thinking persons movie where you have fit bits of a puzzle into shape and at the end of it you think, Oh My God thats what that bit meant.A great movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is better than it seems at first - stick with it!","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first like 20 minutes of the film and you are thinking 'oh a boring talky movie' but then it takes some nifty bizarre twists and ends up somewhere between The Twilight Zone, The X Files, and Darkness.  It shows how humans fear (with good reason) things we do not understand - especially when they have the power to do (or see or know) things we cannot, or even create people after death, or from scratch, etc.  Of course it doesn't hurt the 'horror' vibe for the thing to look like a big 8 foot tall demonic vampire.This movie has the same sort of feel as The Sixth Sense, and with better effects, editing, scope, etc.  Actually more accurately I would say that this thing takes off where The Sixth Sense only dabbles...  This thing takes you 'to the other side man'You know what this is - it's grim reaper meets et "},{"Title":"More of a supernatural mystery movie than a horror. Read the actual case history.","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Having thoroughly read the history of the alleged titular creature, Mothman, I was at first quite disappointed in this film. The real case dealt with people who were supposedly chased by a tall, bird-like man creature with glowing red eyes and incredible speed. The creature did strange things like flying without flapping its wings, and it sounded like a woman screaming. The case, never officially solved, allegedly involved UFOs, although barely a legitimate link to them was made.Instead of being based on these things, the film is more directly based on a book of the same name, which itself was more of a hypothetical study of what Mothman may mean and represent. A focal point in the film is how the sighting of the monster allegedly preceded disasters. In actuality, the creature was only scantily reported to have been seen around the Ohio river bridge when it collapsed in the late 60s. The film showed this collapse and is its finest scene. But then it adds extra mysterious details to the event, such as Mothman's ability to make people dream such an event before it happened, etc. This is an example of the film being based on the more glamorous ideas in the book instead of focusing on the facts of the case itself, which were far more interesting and would have made for a more frightening movie.   The movie is, however, well done. It takes itself seriously, is well acted, and features very good mood music and ambience. It sets the mood, leading up to some great scenes such as one in which the main character talks with the alleged creature on the phone. It's creepy stuff, but scenes like that are all too rare in this film. It had a lot of promise and was well done, but I had my hopes up for more of a thriller along the lines of the Sixth Sense, which was well written and acted but still had its fair share of visual chills. As it stands, the Mothman Prophecies is good, and I give it credit for getting a lot of facts and references to the actual case correct. But I was hoping for something much more based on the incidents as they were reported, as opposed to an opinionated book that merely theorized what may have really happened. If you liked the movie at all, I suggest you look up the actual Mothman case and see if you're more interested, as I am, in the supposed real-life creature of 60's West Virginia. "}{"Title":"Modern remaking of a dark Russian faerie tale.","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This production starts out with... This story is based on events which occurred in Point Pleasant, West Virginia. Does that mean this is a true story? Hardly. It says it in plain English. BASED ON. That means it contains actual elements, but these elements have been adapted to fit the producers' ideas of what sells. BASED ON. Not that this movie depicts true occurrences; but that this screen play contains elements which actually happened. Remember Amityville Horror? BASED ON, not that the entire story is fact. Like...the Lutz's, the house in Amityville, and Amityville itself actually exists, and nothing else was real. Get it? Got it? Good. *moves on to the review.*My opinion? This would have been OH so much better with Harrison Ford in the lead. This is the kind of movie he needs to be doing now that he's just too mature for action. Gods help and forfend when he stars in Indiana Jones 4.Richard Gere was good, even believable, as the Times reporter who ends up in West Virginia to do an investigative piece on mysterious happenings there, but Harrison Ford would've been brilliant in this one.Some horror fans are of the mistaken impression that the creature element in this movie is a new monster. In fact, this is a very old monster, which has received very little press, so to speak. While this is a very good story which is nicely done and contains some good suspense elements and a lovely plot, it is not a wholly true story, by all accounts, but I enjoyed it, and that's what good entertainment is all about. It rates a 7/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"come get me","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This review contains spoilers.Hey Mothman, I notice you. Bring it, b****!I was deeply offended by the scene in this movie that compares people to cockroaches and the Mothman to a superior order. For one thing, when the Mothman sends Gere's character a telegram (or whatever) designating the where and the when for his next phone call, the entire letter is written in sentence fragments. It went something like this Phone call. Washington. Tomorrow. Noon.Should I ever decide to torment people, my tormentable letters would be written in full sentence form, richly endowed with subjects and predicates, as well as other signs of overpoweringly correct grammar.As for the film, well, it had moments of intelligence and stupidity. Actually, the strong scenes and the stinkers were packed so closely together as to jar the senses and provide the ultimate reminder of the collaborative nature of film. For instance, during the destruction of the bridge, some idiot sound editor decided to splice in a greatly overused sound file that originated in a Mountain Dew commercial to serve as somebody's scream.  A few minutes, Pellington dazzles by showing submerged tail-lights glowing underwater after the bridge collapse, panning out to eventually delineate the outline of the Mothman. You will very seldom see such a juxtaposition of very bad and very good in a novel, which are either one way or the other.   Pellington's strongest suit is in framing his shots just right, so that when he cuts to the next scene, the cut is visually significant. In fact, scene transitions were a vital element of film that I never recognized on a liminal level until I started writing screenplays myself. In cutting, you seek not to merely advance the narrative. The cut has to be clever or strongly necessary in some respect.I'll give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In this tale of paranormal events, there are moments of terror that work very well based only on sound and non-corporeal threats (as in the scenes of the journalist alone in his motel room), but when the filmmakers decide to gives us a glimpse of the Mothman, they do it with those creepy oval images (as the tall entity in Mimic or the painted figures on rock in Monument Valley) that I love/fear so much! In a script that forces the five-act structure to the point of incoherence, the information is accumulated creating uneasiness and questioning the whole movie, but everything falls into place with the logic of the unexplained... Alan Bates is funny in his role of a scientist trying to explain the unexplainable. "},{"Title":"Not a good enough story to support the facts","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Mothman Prophecies is based on actual events, but the movie doesn't seem to care about such details.  It has some excellent cinematography and editing and even some careful direction from Pellington, but the film just doesn't work as well as it could of (although I'm not sure how well that could be).  Linney and Patton are also good, but Gere brings the show down as usual.  The story also ends too abruptly for comfort.  Grade Between B- and C+ "},{"Title":"Watchable but certainly also not as great as it all could had been.","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The movie has the right intentions and the right talent is also definitely involved but yet it all does not work out as completely successful as it could had done.Perhaps you can wonder if this movie wasn't a little over-ambitious. It tries to put way too much into the movie and its filled with many different supernatural things and elements. It's a bit incoherent and you can often wonder what the one thing has to do with the other. This is also because a lot of things within this movie remain unexplained. It works out good for the mystery and overall atmosphere of the movie but when none of it reach a satisfying enough conclusion it starts to work against the movie. The movie is in constant motion but it doesn't feel like it's progressing. At the start of the movie we know and understand just as much what happened as we do at the end of the movie.Still its story and concept in particular is good enough to keep your intention till the end and director Mark Pellington is obviously a capable director, who knows to handle the genre but just didn't really knew to keep control of the movie its story. The story should had made some more choices but instead it decides to have a little bit of everything in the movie, with as a result that just nothing works out as well as it all could had done.It's not really the type of movie you would normally expect to see Richard Gere in but he fits the part really well. It was good to not see him for a change in a middle-age chick flick, or overly moralistic themed and dramatic movie. It's not necessarily a 'typical' Richard Gere movie. He's real good and convincing as the movie its likable main 'hero', you can also care about. The movie also features some fine other actors but they get more pushed to the background of the movie because of the reason that the movie its story is so overfull with all kinds of things.All in all, yes it's a watchable enough movie for when you're bored or for on a rainy night but the movie is just not as great as it potentially really could had been. Genre fans will probably still enjoy it best.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"eerie, unsettling, disturbing, fantastic","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I recently got the mothman prophecies on DVD. I only got this DVD after researching everything about the mothman.So armed and high on info i was ready to watch.While watching i felt constantly unsettled by what was happening. The whole film was very disturbing. But you also have to take into account that these events are real.Acting is brilliant and the editing is top notch.This is definitely a marmite thing you either hate it or you love it.I personally love it and i hope you do to.Chaaaaapppp stiick "},{"Title":"What really happened?.... Good horror/suspense","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The true answer, as one gets older is that not everything can be understood or predicted. Human behavior, psychic phenomena, natural disasters; this film is curious and intriguing, without being too unrealistic.This movie is a good example of eerie occurrences, which people had sensed, but could not understand until it was too late. It was based on true stories compiled from the 1970's at a rural town called Point Pleasant, West Virginia. Richard Gere was surprisingly good in this genre of mystery/suspense. The sense of dread, the emptiness when he loses his wife Debra Messing to a freak disease. She has a sort of tumor that causes her to be in a fatal car accident.Gere finds himself later driving through a rural area, in the isolated woods of West Virginia; somehow he is lost; he had meant to drive to Washington D.C. and ends up 10 hours west of his destination.Laura Linney is also very good as the local sheriff; she has recorded townspeople's complaints of seeing a Mothman; an eerie red figure two stories tall; sounds improbable, but the way the film presents this to the audience makes the story credible and scary. Will Patton portrays a local who at first hallucinates the Mothman and later ends up having a breakdown. His performance is very good as well.I will not divulge the story, but actually had the opportunity to visit Point Pleasant, West Virginia. It is a truly isolated area where stories like this could certainly occur. Highly recommended. 9/10. "},{"Title":"facts behind the movie(may contain spoilers)","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" very good movie,seeing as no-one is yet to prove the moth man exists,yes,i am saying people have seen something like the moth man in real life before.me and most other members on cryptozoology.com looked forward to the movie.i find it very excellent that movie directors are starting to notice the mysterious creatures earth has to offer known as cryptids.these include such creatures as Bigfoot,loch ness monster,moth man and el chupacabra,which from recent news the image has changed from being a blood sucking alien into a sort of hairless dog type creature.the Mothman has been seen in some counties from the 1960s onwards,but in recent years sightings have stopped with only a hand full of sighting of the elusive beast a year.many people do not actually know what the moth man looks like,the one in the movie is just a guess,many see it as a humanoid figure others a giant moth,your ideas are as good as ours. "},{"Title":"The Y Files","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS.This was a bit slow going but I rather enjoyed it, despite the sometimes jazzed up directorial displays (flashes of this and that, one or two cuts that depend not on old-fashioned irises but new-fashioned red Xs).  It might have been a bit shorter for what it had to say.I missed some minutes of the middle so I'm not sure how accurate my grasp of the plot was.  Basically it's an X-File script.  Incredible things happen to credible people.  Strange figures are glimpsed.  There are time lapses.  There is a consultation with an expert in historical legends who doesn't want to be involved but who explains to the hero that the Mothman is some sort of prognosticating archetype.  Telephone calls come out of nowhere predicting deaths.  (I think I'm getting signals myself right now, from The Omen.)  The ominous hints make sense, more or less, when they are drawn together at the end and a bridge over a river collapses amidst some well-done and convincing special effects.  I don't know why the hero (Gere), a reporter for the Washington Post, is drawn into the story or where he draws his resources from, such as the electronic analysis of the voices taped during a phone call that indicate the caller's voice was not made by a human being.  I don't know why the somewhat looney local resident (Will Patton) is given warnings about an earthquake somewhere in Equador, when he himself lives in some dinky town in West Virginia and can do nothing about it one way or the other.  I don't know why Patton's ear bleeds either.  Not even a glioblastoma would do that.  I'm not sure why Laura Linney was given a prophetic dream or why she considers it an unusual experience since it makes as much sense as any other dream, which is to say none at all.  In Laura Linney's case, I don't care.  She's about the least believable hometown hillbilly sheriff you can imagine but with her lustrous long blonde hair and plump cheeks and sculptured nose it doesn't matter.  Richard Gere, I'm happy to see, isn't the cocky energetic Macher that he was in so many of his earlier roles.  Here he gets to look amazed and, at times, shocked and frightened.  (When he's awed by something, he whispers.)  Gere was my supporting player in a flawless gem of a movie called No Mercy.  Will Patton was my supporting player in the superlative art-house cult classic, Everybody Wins.  Laura Linney, alas, was not my supporting player in anything.  Patton is an extremely interesting actor.  His speech is full of retroflex sibilants, so that when he says sickles, it sounds like Sssicklesss.  His Ss almost whistle like Jack Lemon's after he loses his capped tooth in The Out of Towners.  But he's more than just the sound of his voice.  Every gesture, every expression, is fascinating.  He could be the Strother Martin of our time.Well, summing up, this is a rather drawn-out supernatural thriller, well acted and executed.  If you liked the X Files, you ought to like this too.  Just imagine David Duchovny in Gere's role and Gillian Anderson in Linney's. "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am really glad that such a lot of people liked this film immensely. Intense, eerie, creepy and more of these qualifications.Sorry guys, I was so bored that I went downstairs to the 'puter to fire up the IMDb and see what piece cinema this was. Saw to my great surprise such a lot of rave reviews. So I missed about 5/7 minutes of the movie.You can wake me up at night* for a thriller and all that. But this was like ... and what is going to happen next? Again change of colors? Again wavy camera-work, again the Gere-played character in distress. Yawn.I must be honest, I have never seen a Richard Gere movie and liked his acting. Seems the same guy all over with the same little sighs coming out of him in the same way.The final scene was very well done and the music was then appropriate, but for most of the film the music was telling me all the time H, dude, listen up... I am eerie, creepy music. At a certain point I wanted to say Yeah, music, I know, I know... you are eerie & creepy music. Now become Music and not sound effects disguised as music. But a lot of people liked the film very much and that's great, after all, you can't win them all.Cheers! * Won't like it, but you can wake me up. "}{"Title":"Truth can be stranger than fiction.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I was intrigued with the trailers for almost a month. I chose this movie over two others I intend to see. The less than fresh popcorn along with my Cherry Coke were more satisfying than the movie. A top reporter for The Washington Post(Richard Gere) is lured to Point Pleasant, West Virginia, where strange and bizarre occurrences caused fear in the mid 1960s. The reporter's wife was killed in a car accident that may be connected to another series of strange events.Where is the horror? Where is the terror? Where is the scary and intense flick I thought I was going to see? I will wait and watch again for free on cable.Gere proves to still be able to carry the lead role. Also in the cast are Will Patton, Laura Linney, Alan Bates and Debra Messing. Go see for yourself. Maybe I am too jaded! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly effective chiller that is built on great delivery and direction from Pellington","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" On the night they buy their new home together, John and Mary Klein are driving home when Mary sees something large coming towards the car, swerves and crashes. When she comes to in hospital she is found to have a tumour and it appears that only she saw this large, red moth-like figure. A few weeks later Mary dies, leaving only sketches of figures and dark red blurs. Two years later John has moved on with his life and has thrown himself into work. Making a short journey one night, John suddenly finds himself in Point Pleasant, West Virginia &#150; 400 miles away from where he was despite having only travelled for two hours. He has no idea how he got there but a man in a house he goes to for help claims that John has been there at exactly 0230 every night for the past three nights. Unable to explain how or why he has arrived in this place, John starts to look around and finds that some others have seen the same moth-figure. The more John digs the more he finds and the less he likes.I watched this film knowing nothing about it other than the basic plot summary above. I suggest you watch it the same way. My review contains no spoilers but you will probably enjoy the film more if you don't read any further.When this film came out at cinemas I must admit that it looked silly and not something I wanted to watch. Years later it came to television and I decided to give it a stab and quickly found myself engaged in a film that will appeal to those who like the X-Files and material of that nature. By way of comparison to that series this stands out with the strongest episodes as the simple mystery builds with additions to the mystery without actually taking us a great deal closer to the solution. For the first hour in particular it does this very well, to the point where it is very creepy and absolutely gripping. After this point, I was preparing myself for a slide downhill in the second half and for things to come to an unsatisfying conclusion &#150; such is the way with films like this, the build up tends to be better than the actual finish. Here though the film never gets to a full conclusion, well, it does in some regards but not in others. Nor is the Mothman ever more than a shadow &#150; hence it maintains the mystery and uncertainty that it has in the very first scenes. Of course it is not perfect &#150; the romance side is less than convincing and I can imagine some viewers will not appreciate the way that many questions are left unanswered and loose ends are too easily tugged at.I'm not sure how true this story is but all credit should go to director Pellington because it is he who creates and maintains the tension and the feeling of being on edge. He frames shots in strange ways, uses close-ups, quick edits and sets up shots with the suggestion of something in the background but never has anything jump out. He showed himself well able to draw out tension with small gestures and without making it feel cheap or easy. The soundtrack is also effective &#150; small bits of feedback, whispers, weird music all add to the tension, chill and general feeling of unease that it has throughout. The cast help as well, particularly Gere who is convincing and low-key as the role requires. Linney is good and plays well opposite Gere, however she is so focused on being afraid and on-edge that she forgets to let her character fall in love with Gere's until the last few scenes of the film! Patton and others are strong in support although, as I say, Pellington was the real star for me.Overall this is not perfect but it certainly took me by surprising and was one of the more unexpected pleasures that film watching has given me recently. The low-key nature of it must have led to the poor marketing campaign that produced poor box office, however I enjoyed it a great deal more than I expected to and would certain recommend you give it a try if you like creepy films with an X-Files air to them. "},{"Title":"Stupid Movie","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I cannot believe I wasted almost two hours watching this movie.I think it was one of THE most boring movies I have  ever seen.  Where is the terror??  I almost fell asleep, but I had to see how it ended.  Yawn. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie Recommended for Fans of The X-Files","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" John Klein (Richard Gere) is a Washington Post reporter in love of his wife Mary (Debra Messing). One day, while driving after buying a new house for them, she has her attention distracted by an angel shaped shadow and crashes the car in a fatal accident. Two years later, the widowed John Klein is impelled to go to Point Pleasant, a small town in West Virginia, where he realizes that many strange events have happened and other persons have also seen the same shadow as his wife. Connie Parker (Laura Linney), a local cop, together with him will investigate those spooky facts associated with the moth-man. Mark Pellington, after the tense 'Arlington Road', does not disappoint and directs again a great movie. The drama in the beginning switches to a scary plot that looks like an episode of X-Files replaces John Klein and Connie Parker by Fox Moulder and Dana Scully, and it would be a splendid X-Files story. Finally the great accident, like in those disaster movies in the 70's makes this movie worthy. The sound effect on DVD (Dolby Digital 5.1) is scary and the camera movements (like in 'Evil Dead' and the introduction of 'The Lost Boys') are wonderful. Although the screenplay raises many unanswered questions, it is a great movie with a remark the X-Files fans will certainly love it. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) A ltima Profecia (The Last Prophecy) "},{"Title":"What I learned from this movie","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Hunting monsters makes your lips chapped. Worst product placement ever! But seriously, I felt this movie was visually excellent, the script just couldn't come close to matching the quality of the imagery. The suspense, which took a while to reach a certain level, seemed to simply linger on a plateau and the climactic scene couldn't quite push it up to the top. I had great expectations going into this, but felt disappointed by the time it finally ended. Not long after watching this movie some unknown object struck the windshield of my wife's car while she was driving alone at night. She was unhurt but the windshield had to be replaced. Damn Mothman can cost you some money, let me tell you! The only thing more arduous than sitting through this film is coming up with ten lines to review this stinker! Just a few more clicks and I'm done, come on, COME ON! YES!!! Finally. Five stars for the pretty camera-work. "},{"Title":"The Mothman Prophecies","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" From director Mark Pellington (Arlington Road), it was only the title and leading actor I had to heard of and was relying on, but that was good enough for me. Basically Washington Post journalist John Klein (Richard Gere) and his wife Mary (Debra Messing) find their perfect home, but soon after moving in they have a car accident, where Mary swerved to avoid hitting a dark, caped figure. John was unharmed, but Mary hit her head badly and dies in hospital, but not before leaving some sketches of what she saw, they show a winged creature. Two years pass, and while driving his car John wakes up and finds himself in Point Pleasant, West Virginia, with no idea of how journeyed 400 miles in less than two hours. He meets Gordon Smallwood (Will Patton) who for some reason recognises him, but after a misunderstanding claims to have seen strange things like maybe Mary saw. Local police officer Connie Mills (Laura Linney) has many other reports of people claiming to have sighted a strange, dark and tall moth-like creature, and John gets many phone calls from a non-human voice, so he starts looking for an explanation. John also gets some help from expert on the subject of the supernatural Alexander Leek (Alan Bates), who convinces him that it is not just him, but the whole town is in danger of the wrath from the mothman. Some of the questions posed in the film about what's real and not, the mothman itself and the disaster element are unanswered, but Gere isn't too bad, and there are some creepy moments to I suppose grab you, and it is supposedly based on true events. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Preposterously boring","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Imagine the dullest monster movie you've ever seen. Even whatever derivative, lowbudget, imagination-deficient trash you're currently thinking of featured a monster, right? The Mothman Prophecies takes the approach of Roland Emmerich's horrible Godzilla remake surely audiences are more interested in the boringass life of some journalist than the monster of the title, right? However, where Godzilla at least managed to remember to include some scenes of its titular monster fussing up shizz, this movie does not feature the Mothman, at all, ever. Just take a moment to reread that sentence, please. In a movie called The Mothman Prophecies, based on the Mothman phenomenon (a series of sightings of a creepy, manlike winged being in Point Pleasant, West Virginia, 1966-67), the Mothman does not appear. There is not a single frame of this movie that features even the smallest body part of the Mothman. What we get instead is Richard Gere's character, driving around aimlessly at night, sitting in his hotel room at night, or talking to the boring locals at night. You know, the sort of scenes that should build tension, making the monster's appearance that much more effective. But since there is no such appearance, we get instead two hours of sustained tedium. Honestly, what's next? A Batman movie about some Gotham City cop who just patrols the streets for two hours, not even encountering any crimes, occasionally thinking about Batman, whom he has never seen, & never will, because he's not in the film? A James Bond movie that focuses on the grieving widow of some evil henchman, wondering what the man who killed him looked like, but not knowing, because she's never met him & he's not in the film? Actually, both of those sound far more interesting than this movie. If you'll excuse me, I've got to fly to Hollywood to make some pitches. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"22 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I remember when this film was first released there was a lot of marketing hype about how this was  based on a true story  , but what wasn`t pointed out was how this  true story  took place in the 1960s and for some inexplicable reason the producers updated it to the year 2000 or there abouts to the detriment of the story . It may have been difficult enough to believe THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES was a  true story  if it had remained set in the 60s but by placing it at the turn of the millenuim it`s impossible to take seriously . For example after an incident a character is seen calling 911 on a mobile phone something that couldn`t have possibly happened in the 1960s . It`s a bit like SCINDLER`S LIST when you know a scene couldn`t have happened like that and find yourself questioning  how much else has been inventedDespite this serious criticism I did like THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES . Okay so I didn`t believe this was a true story but there`s still much to admire . Director Mark Pellington brings a bleak atmosphere to the movie and there`s a couple of scenes that made me jump out of my seat . The cast are fairly good but Gere is inconsistent . Let`s face it , he`s a movie star because of his looks not because he has an abundance of thespian talent , but I`ll give him credit for his performance opposite Debra Messing at the start of the film which both poignant and moving .So a thumbs up from me because it`s a haunting supernatural drama , even though I take the true story with a big pinch of salt  "}]