[{"Title":"Reckless Brilliance","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"49 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I watched the film Pumpkin recklessly and fearlessly go from somewhat absurd situation to complete and utter silliness, I got the sense that it was made with a sense of joy that few movies are made with these days. The fact that the film refuses to wink at the audience or play funny music during all the absurdity, makes it all the more impressive. Everything in this movie subverts itself - - in the big satiric moments, this is obvious (the car crash after which Kent's face is unscratched), but one must look closely at what seem to be serious or sentimental moments to realize that these are indeed hilarious and subversive moments as well (the romantic dialogue between Carolyn and Pumpkin is completely absurdist if you keep in mind Pumpkin's problem.)Indeed, most Americans are used to films cueing them as to when they are being serious and when they are being funny and audiences are trained to watch for this.  Because Pumpkin doesn't do this, a lot of its humor probably goes over the heads of people not used to anything this poker-faced - - especially when done with such sweetness.The reviews I've read try to condemn Pumpkin by pigeonholing it into one genre or another - - either the mean-spirited sharp satire of Todd Solondz or the over-the-top buffoonery of the Farrelly Brothers - - but Pumpkin is neither. Indeed, when you realize that Pumpkin fits in no box and, in effect, challenges our notion what a movie should be, you're set free and you begin to laugh at what is the funniest film I've seen in a long time.  "},{"Title":"Seems To Have Two Different Views.....","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From being on here I've seemed to notice that people either love the movie or hate it. It seems about equal in the hate to love ratio. So if you want to watch you will be taking a jump and won't know if you like it or not until you've seen it. But for me, I am in the love section, so I would recommend everyone watches it at least once before judging it.The movie centers around Carolyn (Christina Ricci), the beautiful, popular girl with the boyfriend all the other girls want. Everything is perfect for Carolyn, until her sorority decides to volunteer to help mentally challenged kids prepare for the Challenged Games so that they can win Sorority of the Year. Carolyn's partner is Pumpkin (Hank Harris), and while at first she is confused and scared of him, she soon finds out there is more to him deep down. A love interest in Pumpkin could make her looked down upon by everyone who surrounds her, and possibly ruin her perfect life.A lot of people seem to like bashing the film, while others simply talk about how much they like it. Pumpkin is one of, if not, my favorite movie, so I would give it a 10/10 because it has everything I like; not because of the acting, filming, directing, etc. I'd recommend you to watch Pumpkin and decide how you feel about it.I also find people think it is offending (haters) or sweet and touching (lovers). You can probably tell where I fit in. ;) "},{"Title":"life imitating art imitating life","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Your relationship is...inappropriate, one of Carolyn's sadly superficial sorority sisters says to her in the course of Pumpkin, and that statement sums up this superbly uncategorizable exercise to perfection.  Nothing about Pumpkin is appropriate, from the soundtrack choices (the music in the fight scene between Pumpkin and Kent in particular), the casting (it was a near-shock to see Dominique Swain with her clothes on through the ENTIRE FILM for openers), the story itself and the shamelessly ambiguous manner in which it's presented.  It works, though, thanks to a supremely conflicted and tender performance from Christina Ricci and the simplicity, sensitivity and sincerity of Hank Harris' interpretation of the title character. Life isn't just one thing, it's all things all at one time sometimes.  Just like this movie.   "},{"Title":"When 'separate but equal' worlds collide.","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Webster's New World Dictionary defines the word &#145;retarded' as 'slow or delayed in development, esp mentally.'The movie's setup is certainly different from the typical &#145;boy meets girl' formula. We've all seen the &#145;nerd gets girl' bit. Well, this time it's taken to the &#145;next level' if you will. The plot revolves around a stereotypical &#145;prom queen' type of sorority girl falling in love with a mentally (and physically) handicapped boy, and how everything she once held dear falls apart because of it.This is the sort of project that Christina Ricci has made a career out of doing. Namely, dark comedies. She plays against type insofar as she's considered a rather &#145;edgy' actress, yet her role in this flick is that of the &#145;popular girl'. A role in which is has obvious fun lampooning. The subject matter would make one think that this would be a conventional straight drama, but it isn't, which is perhaps what elevates it above what could be typical tearjerker schlock. The film never takes itself too seriously, there's always a bit of &#145;winking' involved. Take for instance when Ricci's character tries to kill herself by overdosing on Night Quill and Pepto-Bismol-only to succeed in making herself sick to her stomach.However, while satirical, it does make good points on how the general public view and think about the mentally handicapped. How beneath the platitudes and seeming self sacrifice, most people still view them as &#145;unequal' to the rest of us-people to whom mouth service is given, but true acceptance of is never a genuine consideration.The way everyone turns on Ricci's character (her friends, her boyfriend, her parents) when it's made clear her feelings for her &#145;special friend'-it's very poignant and very real (if not also very farcical). And one supposes that it's because of that blatant bias of others that make her make out scenes with said &#145;special friend' so satisfying. She not only accepts him, but accepts him as a woman accepts a man. One has to admit, there's something oddly esoteric about seeing her have an implied sex scene with a &#145;retard'. It sort of warms the cockles of one's heart.&#145;Off beat' is the best way to quantify this film. It toes the line between full-blown farce and full on drama. Satirical yet genuine. And this is coming from a guy that usually avoids these types of flicks like the Bubonic Plague!  "},{"Title":"Amusingly schizophrenic","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Surprisingly sweet dark comedy is really too sentimental at heart to be the edgy piece it was promoted as, and the curious final results show definite signs of indecisive filmmakers (two directors!) at the helm. A sorority princess living in a privileged bubble has her existence turned upside-down after forging a loving relationship with a mentally challenged young man, losing her friends in the process. The direction is erratic, and the tone of the film changes from scene to scene, yet it is certainly unpredictable and the cast is game. I don't know if the focus of the movie was changed midway, but the later sequences have a sweet nuance to them, as if a big softie suddenly took over to see this thing through to a happy ending. And then there's that final shot which, in keeping with the rest of the picture, is amusingly bizarre. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Somewhere between a 1 and a 10.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin slips mercurially through the genres ending up somewhere around black comedy with farcical overtones and biting undercurrents as it tells of a privileged, superficial sorority sister (Ricci) who gets real and falls for a mentally challenged man (Harris) while coaching him for a Special Olympics type event.  The film boldly treads on thin ice, clumsily at times, as it tramples social constructs from decorum to morality while managing to maintain a marginally interesting storyline. Probably a real achievement given the experience of the auteur, Pumpkin will likely end up a love it or hate it flick of modest significance. Worth a look as a curiosity if nothing more. (B) "},{"Title":"This movie is wonderful!","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has a lot of depth. The actors did an excellent job portraying very three-dimensional characters. Occasionally, I found myself rooting for the antagonists. In this movie Christina Ricci's character is part of a comically cliché sorority. The sorority sisters decide to mentor mentally retarded college freshmen as a goodwill project to help them win a contest. When Ricci's character meets Pumpkin, played by Hank Harris, her entire world changes. My world changed too, because I suddenly had a new favorite movie.The writing was superb. This outstanding story is both hilarious and touching. The directing was top-notch as was this pacing of this perfect little movie. The sense of humor displayed ranges from quirky to diabolical. I would recommend this movie to fans of Donnie Darko, Napolian Dynamite, or Last Supper ) "},{"Title":"Perfectly and bizarrely amazing","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *Spoiler warning - 2nd paragraph* Pumpkin is not a black comedy. It is not a farce. It is not a drama, not a romance, not a satire, and not a parody. All the things that Pumpkin is not seem to really confuse people, and when they're confused, and don't get it, they don't like it. But if you go into this movie without real expectations, you will probably find yourself very pleasantly surprised, especially if you pay careful attention to the Cinderella reference at the end...*spoilers in the following paragraph* What Pumpkin is, is completely surreal (like a fairy tale). The plot is surreal Sorority girl Caroline McDuffy has a perfect and not-normal-in-its-normalcy life, until she falls in love with the retarded Pumpkin. The presentation is surreal I've read more comments that say it's not believable when Kent lives through falling off a cliff in a car that blow up. It's not supposed to be realistic or believable, and more than the scene where a nun and some rats block Caroline's line of sight, or the scene where her poetry teacher kneels to her, or the scene where Pumpkin hits Kent, or the scene where Carolin takes Pumpkin to the ball. The acting and dialogue and tone are surreal - just a bit too two-dimensional, plastic, clichéd, but it's fakery with such depth (rather reminds me of Holly Golightly; a phony, but a real phony). Completely bizarre.In addition to surreal, Pumpkin is also funny, edgy, over-the-top, sometimes touching, and ultimately ambiguous. Therein is the brilliance of Pumpkin - it keeps you on edge, guessing. But as long as you're not trying to analyze it, box it, type it, or whatever, that's fun. "},{"Title":"Dark teenage comedy","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure if this movie goes way too far, or not far enough. A dark teenage comedy, Pumpkin tells of the story of the perfection obsessed sorority girl Carolyn McDuffy who falls for Pumpkin, a mentally challenged boy she meets when her sorority house agrees to coach some `special people.' The film forces the viewer to look inward and confront their own prejudices, but it does so in such a strange and weirdly paced way that it is hard to recommend Pumpkin, although I think it is an interesting movie. I wish someone like Lloyd Kaufman would have directed it, someone who would take the gloves off and go for the jugular in every scene and really give this material some bite. A movie like this will only work if the filmmaker goes in completely committed to the idea. As it is Pumpkin seems to teeter on the brink of outrageousness, but pulling back every time to stay on the PC side of the fence. It's a shame because this could have been a truly wonderful and subversive movie.  "},{"Title":"a good story","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the idea of pumpkin. I it is a satire/black comedy, but isn't aiming for those laugh out loud moments, just cute little moments, like when Carolyn forgets about Pumpkin at the beach or when Carolyn cusses out the other Soritey sisters.  Pumpkin is the story of a popular soriety girl who has the perfect boyfriend and ends up falling for the handicapped boy she is supposed to help train for the special Olympics. Everyone looks down on her and is shocked that one of the soriety girls would want a special guy. They see her as taking advantage of him. But, we get to see Pumpkin grow up and become more abled because now he has something to work toward. His mom treats him like a baby, but Carolyn makes him work harder and he really isn't as handicapped as his mom thought he was.  And in a surprise, Carolyn's boyfriend, Kent isn't a  bad guy, which we find out after he becomes disabled.FINAL VERDICT Overall, I think Pumpkin is about the basic concept Love conquers all.  And it is a sort of Romeo/Juliet story since these 2 young people want to be together but others are against it for silly reasons.  I recommend this movie; the most negative comment I have is it could have been a little shorter. "}{"Title":"Decent movie","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie takes a while to get used to.  It's not exactly a conventional movie.  I rented it because I like Christina Ricci and had heard that the movie was very good.  In the end I'd say it was kind of cute but not a very special movie.  Marisa Coughlan plays a sorority sister and has some funny scenes.  I'd say rent it for cheap. "},{"Title":"Really weird movie","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Movie starts out on a fairly even, believable keel and then subtly skews into some alternate universe. Believable, I guess due to the proliferation of chicks flicks, is the stereotype of the white girl with the 'perfect'life boyfriend etc whose greatest challenge in life is winning some sorority award. Unbelievable is the transition to self-discovery via a relationship that develops with a mentally challenged guy who does little more than stare at her initially. The girl's character fills in much of the formation of the relationship as though it were all happening in her head and the challenged character seems to comply and follow through independently. A key question is asked seemly innocently and then revisited at the movie's end Caroline why does the moon ..change..? Caroline asks in the end if pumpkin meant it literally or metaphorically to which he gives the audience's collective What!?!? reply. Not so much that the question is not understood but one is left wondering what that had to do with the overall message of the movie. It was as if to suggest that there be no real tangible reason why things happen the way they do.It is a touching movie, it is nice to believe that good things can happen to all people. I just think that the way it is told is a disservice to the audience. "},{"Title":"A great movie if you take the time to appreciate it.","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is fantastic, although you probably have to have a certain comic sensibility to appreciate it. The best parts of this movie are so subtle that you might miss them the first time around. The director certainly doesn't hold your hand.The soundtrack in particular was amazing. The montage set against Belle & Sebastian's Stars of Track and Field is one of the better uses of song in a movie I've encountered.I rarely come across comedies that demonstrate any originality. It's mostly formulaic junk. Pumpkin is a beautiful, hilarious, and has a great deal of thematic and character depth. "},{"Title":"Dark Comedy--Sex, Sorority Girls and the Disabled","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the most neglected aspects of living with a disability is addressed in this dark comedy--sexuality. Christina Ricci is not the best actress, but no one plays a frothy bitch with the same charisma, and her talents are well used.The topic is addressed through the absurdist humor of the director; it is not overt and there are no easy cues for the audience to follow. In fact, the film pays the audience the rare compliment of expecting them to figure out the themes for themselves.The only disappointment I had with this tale of a Sorority sister reluctantly falling in love with the disabled Pumpkin was his self administered rehabilitation. The more interesting aspects of the film would have come across much more powerfully had he remained as she met him. "},{"Title":"NOT a comedy but still a great movie (satire is not dead!)","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Satires are not always comedies, just like comedies are not always satires. Examples Robocop, District 9, Starship Troopers, Stepford Wives ...these are all brilliant satires; yet they are not comedies.I think it's misleading for Pumpkin to be advertised as a comedy. Sure, it's packed full of subtle humour, but like the films I mentioned above, its intent is probably not to make us laugh out loud. Its intent is to give us an offbeat look at society without taking itself too seriously. So if you go into this film expecting something HYSTERICALLY FUNNY (says the Washington Post), you might be disappointed.Another caveat this film is not about disabled people--not like, say, Shine or My Left Foot. True, the plot is about a sorority girl who gets into an inappropriate relationship with a mentally challenged boy, but that's just a metaphor for what the film is really hitting us with. The film simply uses this metaphor to illustrate the screwed-up norms of human society. Pay attention early on to the speech Christina Ricci gives about how sororities & fraternities end up dividing us, labeling us and creating differences where none really exist. I believe that encapsulates what this film is trying to tell us about our world, and you'll realize it's a lot more than just a romantic comedy.In order to fully appreciate this film, you CANNOT take anything at face value. Everything ...even the wooden acting or the melodramatic pill scene or the exploding car (lol)... is designed to be over-the-top, showing us a bizarre world and giving a little wink to the audience. Almost every scene will have you wondering if the filmmakers were being ironic, and that's the beauty of unravelling a film such as this. It's very subtle but well executed, almost like Hitchcock's brand of humour in Strangers on a Train which, similarly, pokes fun at the veneer of polite society hiding the screwed-uppedness beneath (in fact, Pumpkin has a tennis scene that's reminiscent of the tennis scene in the Strangers).I'm not sure if everyone will like Pumpkin but I sure did. If you're a fan of the 4 satires I mentioned in my 1st paragraph, I think you'll like it. If so, I highly recommend the Mexican film Casi Divas (2008) about a cut-throat talent competition, and the Spanish movie El Crimen Ferpecto (2004) about a man trapped in a department store overnight. Along with Pumpkin, these are light-hearted gems that make us think hard about the human condition. Oh don't forget Heathers (1988) which fits right in with the bunch, though a bit on the darker side. "},{"Title":"Unique.","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's the story. . .A Pasadena debutante/sorority girl, Caroline McDuffy (played by Christina Ricci), who is, of course, dating the gorgeous/perfect/tennis star and campus stud, Kent Woodlands(Ken doll?) is subsequently drafted by her sorority sisters to be a mentor for mentally-challenged 'Pumpkin' Romanoff in order to train him for the Special Olympics. She gradually falls in love with Pumpkin much to the disdain of Kent, her friends, Pumpkin's mother and her parents who all try to stop her from embarking on, what they see as, an ill-fated union.How do you convey an 'out there' story like that in today's world without seeming corny or just plain preposterous? Easy. You make it 'tongue-in-cheek' corny and preposterous. You laugh at the situation and make fun of it before anyone else can. The characters are portrayed as people in the present whose perceptions are frozen in the past. Pasadena, according to the story, is apparently filled with 'the beautiful people' who still believe they breathe separate air from the rest of humanity and are very out of touch with----almost everything. Most of the characters are lovably neurotic in their 'evolutionarily-challenged' state, but I gotta say, Caroline's mother is downright creepy and sinister about it.The unique concept seems almost an impossibility but it is so well-acted and the manner in which it is handled, with sensitivity, insight, irony, humor (I especially love the 70ish/Bruce Lee/Kung Fu music playing as Kent and Pumpkin finally 'duke it out' over Caroline) and genuine sweetness make 'Pumpkin' a movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Good film, if a bit unrealistic","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *SPOILERS*Now this may not be the best movie I've ever seen but it's certainly not a bad one. I picked it up simply because I liked the cover but I turned out to really like it. Christina Ricci is good as a pure, semi-spoiled girl who's never had to deal with anything hard in her life. Her changes as she gets to know Pumpkin are very interesting. She learns a lot about herself and those that she surrounds herself with. That said, it is a bit unrealistic. Of course she could fall in love with Pumpkin but for the changes to occur so quickly her to be so ostracized by everyone is a bit much. Also, the scene where her ex-boyfriend plunges off the road yet he ends up almost perfectly fine made me laugh. But this movie was not going for being totally realistic. Many of the situations and characters are overdone for more effect. I thought it was a good movie, with a good ending (her hesitation and look back as she walks off with him at the end is perfect, it gives you the feeling that this isn't just a storybook ending where they will live happily ever after). I would encourage people to watch it, but only those mature enough to deal with the idea of a relationship between a disabled person and 'normal' girl.  "},{"Title":"Grotesque and sweet (spoilers!!!)","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the 'perfect girl has a perfect life, loses it all, then learns it was not so perfect after all, and begins a new life' kind of films. Satyrical comedies, that can rather evilly make of fun of one group of people, showing how shallow they can be, and smiling upon another group. Films that do not really try to be serious about anything. And, at the same time, sweet stories that can make you cry.The plot is predictable girl meets a boy, they fall in love, yet there are many obstacles which they overcome. A classical love-story formula. Although this particular story brought more obstacles than I expected, making me even doubt if a happy ending was really possible.The characters are lovely stereotypes an overcaring mother, rivalling student girls, who are only interested in winning and keeping their good looks, another type of mother who knows that her daughter will be happy if she follows the rules and doesn't go out with someone from another race, the curious neighbours, the absurdly prejudiced people etc.The beautiful unseriousness of the story a grasshopper crawling through a salad in a luxurious restaurant, the grotesque despair of the sorority girls, the revelations of the heroine after she understands that life isn't as perfect as she thought, a car bursting in flames in mid-air and its driver somehow not dying (although human organism is something rather mysterious and people can sometimes survive dangers that are believed to be lethal). Carolyne's boyfriend accuses her of 'eating yoghurt'(I might have misheard, of course, but I loved it). Carolyne storms off from the beach, talks to her boyfriend, finds out about the sorority's 'tragedy', talks to a teacher and then remembers that Pumpkin is still on the beach, in the company of a lonely sea-gull (the gull is not a major character, more of an extra actually, but I developed a theory about it tying the food and the sun-shade nicely together and carrying it away).And another component the story is touching. Carolyne and Pumpkin really love each other. I watched this at home, so I cheered when they were doing fine and almost cried when it seemed that they would never be together again. "},{"Title":"Even Christina Ricci can't save this stinker.","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I rarely bother commenting on a movie I've rated as low as this one, but for the benefit of those who were as intrigued by the trailer as I was, here are my thoughts.This film has nothing going for it beyond its star, Christina Ricci. The acting is terrible, the writing weak, and it says all it has to say in about half an hour. The last half of the movie is like watching somebody dying of cancer.Christina Ricci plays a conceited sorority girl who reluctantly participates as a mentor for the developmentally disabled. Her charge is Pumpkin, a retarded young man who is partially confined to a wheelchair and dominated by an overbearing mother. Ricci is touched by Pumpkin's sensitivity, and he's in love with her.There are a few funny scenes in the beginning of the film, and there are tender moments as the little rich girl breaks out of her social bonds, but the film never decides what it wants to be - comedy or social commentary. It tries to have it both ways, and fails miserably.Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Not a movie about morality--but, rather, a movie about responsible decision-making.","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Roger Ebert, in the Chicago Sun-Times, gives the movie a very good grade (three-and-a-half stars) and concludes his review by remarking Pumpkin is alive, and takes chances, and uses the wicked blade of satire in order to show up the complacent political correctness of other movies in its campus genre. It refuses to play it safe...Mr. Ebert adds ...there is courage in the performances.I couldn't say it better--and, if Mr. Ebert likes this movie, it's definitely got to be very good.The movie tells the story of how people fall in love for all of the right reasons, or for all of the wrong reasons. It's a matter of making responsible choices, by clearly focusing on love, rather than all of the reasons that detract from it. That is not to say that there won't be ethical dilemmas, in making responsible choices, but an earnest effort to resolve such dilemmas--including economics in the decision- making process--will maximize one's satisfaction. And--including probability in the decision-making process--there will be a good-to- excellent probability for high-quality satisfaction.Because of this, and the courage in the movie's message, I rank the film a 10 out of 10. I added 2 points for doing the right thing, not because of morality, but because of responsible decision-making. There's something positive to be said about muscle, but self-determination adds even more muscle to this movie, and to life's middle-and-end result. This film, more than worthy, is highly recommended. "}{"Title":"One of my favourite films!","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those films that I can watch a thousand times and never tire of. Yes, the story is crazy, the characters ridiculous, but in the world of this film, everything is perfect. Caroline McDuffy has the perfect life. She's from a rich family, in college in a top sorority, dating the school hunk, and has a perfect blonde flip. Her biggest concern is winning sorority of the year. Well, until she meets Pumpkin, and her life is turned up-side down. It's a beautiful story of how falling in love with someone you never expected could turn your whole life around. There are also some classic lines from this film... How retarded are we talking here? Retarded, retarded. "},{"Title":"Too serious to be a parody; too absurd to be serious","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has a completely absurd plot and features characters that are completely one-dimensional and not even remotely believable. If this was a comedy, that might not be a problem. Sadly, this movie just seems to take itself too seriously to come across as a parody. As a drama, it's about as well done as an Ed Wood feature, and as a comedy it just isn't funny; even the most unbelievable moments are presented dramatically and not comedically. The acting is god-awful; Christina Ricci's performance is like something you'd expect from someone performing at a small high school that had barely enough interested people to put on the show at all. I can't imagine any way of interpreting this movie as anything but a horrible failure that deserves to be confined to the dumpster of Mystery Science Theater 3000 fodder. I don't know if I could make a better movie, but I'd be hard pressed to make a worse one.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, not the greatest","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an interesting movie. So many are made today about the strains of interracial dating, but no one ever touches on a story like this  (spoilers!!) A young, rich sorority girl falls in love with a mentally retarded guy. That alone deserves a look. Some of the dialogue in this movie is campy, as though Ricci and the woman playing her mother weren't trying at all. In the luncheon scene with the two of them, there seems to be a sea urchin and a bug crawling on her salad. Perhaps to show that rich people eat strange and exotic things. I dunno. It was a weird scene. I gave this movie 10/10 for tackling a challenging subject and giving a good ending for the viewers. "},{"Title":"A girl named Carolyn McDuffy falls in love with a disabled boy named Pumpkin.","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow. I seriously thought that Pumpkin was the best movie I've ever seen. I thought that it was amazing that they showed how people were so deceitfully and full of lies. Some scenes just said a thousand words. Like when Carolyn moved into a small apartment and when asked where she came from she says, I come from a very bad place, expressing how even though she had a lot, being lied to wasn't worth it. Or when her poetry teacher fell to his knees feeling her pain. I also loved how it was such an out-there movie. Pumpkin was an incredible character and I fell completely in love with him! What a great movie with a very powerful meaning. Although there were some mistakes too. As Carolyn drives them up to the beach, she gets out of the car, leans over to open the trunk, and around the lower side of her back you can see a big rectangle, the microphone for Christina Ricci as she talks. It's amazing how Carolyn's presence would make Pumpkin stronger. Even when he got out of the car from when Carolyn drove him back home after she forgot him on the beach, he pushed his wheelchair and walked. He didn't want or need help. Then he collapsed back into the chair when she left. This movie is full of ups and downs. How even if you're lower than low, you can still pick yourself up with a little help from someone you love...hmm "},{"Title":"inconsistent, to say the least","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is what happens when you make a movie without deciding what sort of movie you're making.  Half of Pumpkin wants to be a an over-the-top, artificial satire like Heathers or But I'm a Cheerleader, and the other half wants to be a sweet movie of a shallow girl who grows from her experience with a mentally challenged boy.  While it might be possible to make the film's premise work with either of these approaches, you can't use both of them.  Scenes that are comedically exaggerated are followed by scenes of painful sincerity.  Some actors appear to think they're in a satire while others think they're in a drama, so even individual scenes seem askew.  The film probably would have worked best as pure satire, but one suspects the director thought the underlying issues were important and wanted to hammer them home dramatically.  As a drama it fails because it makes no sense, Ricci's character isn't given anything convincing to react to; the situation is simply absurd.  This is a classic example of failed direction.Oddly enough, my girlfriend loved this. "},{"Title":"Mostly believable drama...","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1st watched 11/24/2005 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Adam Larson Broder & Tony R. Abrams) Mostly believable drama about a sorority girl(played by Christina Ricci) who goes out of her way to give special attention to a challenged(aka. mentally retarded) young man, falls in love with him and then faces the wrath of society for doing so. Ricci is wonderful as the confused girl who's been brought up thinking everything in life is wonderful until she meets Pumpkin, who's life is not altogether wonderful and she actually begins to feel the pain in her own life and the the pain that he's feeling. This movie starts out looking like a very corny comedy, but abruptly takes a serious note when Pumpkin, played by Hank Harris, comes onto the scene. The movie fights hard not to be too melodramatic and for the most part succeeds. Ricci's character, Carolyn, immediately starts having a dramatic effect on Pumpkin's social and physical abilities as he improves everyday in her presence and this is seen by those around her and jealousy and curiosity ensues. She begins to care for Pumpkin in a deep way and doesn't know how to handle this so, of course, she sees a shrink. He's not much help though and she's left to figure this all out by herself. The only annoying thing about this movie is it's many emotional twists&turns in direction, mainly coming from Carolyn's twists and turns in her own thinking, but this is bearable because of Ricci's appeal and the understanding that this character is being put through the wringer with her own emotions mainly because of her confused up-bringing and the reaction from people around her. A nice suttle tweak at the end gives us the impression that her confusion will continue, even though the viewers get to have their wanted happy ending. All in all, the weakness in this movie comes from the direction(being done by two individuals, maybe this was part of the problem) but the players, especially Ricci & Harris, rise above it to make a meaningful drama about societies confusion towards the challenged individual and the rift that is there between them and the rest of society. "},{"Title":"Cute little dramedy, but a little overdone.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Synopsis Carolyn McDuffy, a college student involved in a sorority, has a perfect life. She has a great boyfriend, good friends, and she believes that everything is beautiful and perfect. Her mother believes that life is easy, that you can exist in a world where there are no problems, and that everything should come easy. The two together are a perfect example blind leading the blind.Carolyn's sorority, in order to win sorority of the year, begins to participate in the Challenged Games. Each girl is assigned to someone who is mentally slow. They are to work with them and help them to get ready for the games. Carolyn is somewhat indifferent about the idea. She doesn't think that it's right or that their sorority should be participating in it. She finds it risky.This is before Carolyn meets Pumpkin. Pumpkin is Carolyn's assigned person. At first, she finds it horrible to work with him. She doesn't know where to begin, she's confused, she doesn't understand what he tries to tell her. After Pumpkin talks to Carolyn a little bit, she begins to realize that he has a beautiful heart. She begins spending time with Pumpkin, despite what her sorority sisters, boyfriend, and family say about it.Carolyn soon becomes confused about her feelings. She begins getting romantic feelings for Pumpkin and she doesn't know what to do. Everything begins to go downhill when her sorority and boyfriend learn this. Carolyn begins to examine her outlook on life and wonder if she was really living to begin with.Review Being a big Christina Ricci fan, I was eager to see Pumpkin. I loved the plot, the cast was good, and it seemed the perfect movie to rent, so I did. Perfect? No, not quite. However, it does deserve a second glance.One thing I found really great about Pumpkin is that it's a movie that you can easily relate to. Everyday we're faced with people who don't approve of the choices that we make. Words can hurt, and they do. This film illustrates that perfectly. Christina Ricci's character, Carolyn, is a popular girl with a seemingly perfect life, but no one's life is perfect. We learn that from this film. While it doesn't go deep into the soul of the character as it could have, we see her problems, her enemies, what makes her tick.Christina Ricci plays her part perfectly. She's become a very versatile actress since she grew up, and I completely respect her for that. Hank Harris is also very good in his role as Pumpkin. We see the character development throughout the film. It may be a little rushed, but it is completely believable and played very well. At times during the film, you forget you're seeing actors. The whole film is very true to life.However, some of the film is a little overly-dramatic. Suspenseful music plays several times in the film in places that I don't feel require it. It leads you to believe that something big is going to happen or that you are going to be surprised, but it doesn't and you're not. It's not that type of movie. Another somewhat large occurrence in the film I find unnecessary and a little off in the film involving Carolyn's boyfriend. Some of the girls in Carolyn's enemy sorority are exceedingly more rude than you would expect. While I can see some tension, I don't think it would be that confrontational. A few other scenes aren't crucial to the plot. I also believe that the F word was completely misplaced in many instances. While it's not excessive, most of the time the word is overly emphasized and just doesn't need to be there.There is enough good in the film to make up for those, though. The whole idea of the movie is wonderful; it has heart. At one point in the film, Carolyn begins realizing that she wasn't seeing the world accurately and begins seeing things that are not beautiful. The film peaks there. It's a wonderful moment and you can really feel what she is thinking and understand her.The film is good and I would definitely considering buying it if I see it for sale. It's not great or perfect, but it's enough and you can see what it was meant to be. Though not a masterpiece or anything original, it'll still win you over eventually.B- (7/10) "},{"Title":"BOMB out of 5","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Finally in her career Christina Ricci has decided to take a different turn from her usual dark and depressing characters with Carolyn. Just to bad half way through this film you will be wishing she hadn't. Carolyn has it all, she is pretty, popular and has a boyfriend all the girls wish they had but after she is made help a disordered boy named Pumpkin in a desperate attempt to make her frat house the best her whole life is changed. But the change is not what you may expect. Instead of unfolding like you are lead to believe instead of making Carolyn see the light and be reborn into goodness by Pumpkins existence her life is flipped upside down and she is even driven as far as to commit suicide. The description on the back of the case referred to this film as a touching love story and a hysterical comedy, but I didn't not see either happen in the two hours this film ran. There is nothing remotely touching or even romantic about this film nor is there one laugh to be had from start to finish. This is because the film walks a very thin line between what is considered touching and what is considered downright mean. See this film is cruel and discriminatory and comes nothing close to laughs or tears. The simple fact is that the entire thing is done backwards. The things that are supposed to be amusing are placed within serious scenes that should have otherwise been moving but come off more as offensive because you are not sure if the scene is serious or not. The langue herein is totally inaproperate and actually made me feel rather uncomfortable with viewing this film. It seems like the script thinks that maybe it can make everyone see the point by having all the characters say the word retard over and over again. This brings me to my next analogy. What the hell was the point of this film? A girl with a happy way of living has her life almost totally ruined in an instant and not on thing that happens in this film makes any sense or is in the least bit believable. A film like this should be telling us to look beneath the surface and see people for their inner beauty because after all isn't it that inner beauty that we fall in love with for in the first place? This film almost seems like it is telling us to avoid helping the disabled because they are looked down on as humans. Is that the kind of message we want to be giving out in this day and age? There are only about five scenes in the entire film that deal with the feelings between Pumpkin and Carolyn, the rest is dedicated to stuck up people who don't seem to have a clue of what is going on around them. Sometimes when a film has a terrible story the acting can at least have a little bit of redeeming quality, not the case here. The acting in this film is dreadful, think what you would get if you crossed a lame soap opera with an after school special from the early 80's and you can probably get a good idea of what the acting is like. But the actors are only half the problem, the rest of the fault goes to the terrible script witch is so meaningless it feels like you are driving your car, full speed, down a one way street that ends with a brick wall. Not to mention all the characters are one dimensional and bland beyond belief. We have a leading lady who seems to be living a plastic existence, her mother who thinks the world revolves around her, a boyfriend who thinks he can survive on looks, an overbearing mother who won't let her disabled son grow up and a rude poetry teacher who serves no purpose here but to swear at his students and say rude things and the saddest part of it all is that it is this teacher who has the only meaningful lines in the film. This film also has one of the worst soundtracks I have heard in a long while, the music just drones on and ruins every scene it is in. In the end this film has nothing good or important to say and it has a total of two effective scene, both being mediocre at best. One when Carolyn returns to the beach after forgetting Pumpkin there and another when she sneaks into Pumpkin's room through his window after his mother forbids him from seeing her anymore. Other than that the film is a total waste and could be the worst of the year. Save your money and go see a film like Elephant Man which actually has some heart behind it because this seems like it is nothing more than someone's idea of a sick joke.  "},{"Title":"Christina Ricci is so great","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Julie Thurber (Marisa Coughlan) intends to lead the Alpha Omega Pi sisters to win against the Tri Omegas by helping mentally challenged athletes for the regional Games. Carolyn McDuffy (Christina Ricci) and Jeanine Kryszinsky (Dominique Swain) disagree with the handicap work. The perky Carolyn is assigned Pumpkin Romanoff (Hank Harris). She finds him to be endearing while he's in love with her. She tries to set up a double-date with Cici Pinkus (Melissa McCarthy) but it goes horribly wrong. She falls in love with Pumpkin horrifying everybody.Its wacky satire is somewhat funny. The over the top sorority girls get a few laughs. It is Christina Ricci's absolute commitment to this character that truly sells it. She's hilarious. The love affair isn't given much preparation. That's probably the biggest problem. It's written as a given. Also I wish Pumpkin is a deeper character. He's a bit too simplistic. Nevertheless this is funny little dark satire. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The setup Perky, perfect Carolyn and her Alpha Omega Pi sisters plan to win Sorority of the Year by impressing the Greek Council with a killer charity coaching mentally challenged athletes for the regional Challenged Games. When Carolyn's assigned to coach Pumpkin she's terrified at first, but soon sees in him something she's never seen before a gentle humanity and honest clarity that touches her soul. To the horror of her friends and Pumpkin's overprotective mother, Carolyn falls in love, becoming an outcast in the process. As Carolyn's perfect life falls apart, Pumpkin teaches her that perfect isn't always perfect after all.The verdict Awesome! "}{"Title":"O.o","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am so confused on how I feel about this film. It had good parts, sad parts, happy parts, and just plain out cheesy bad parts. I give it a 5 because its not bad but its not good either. It's in between. I think for me it was the actors who threw it off for me. But again I'm not sure. This film was special. (No pun intended.) I did however love the story line. It is a touching story. I'm not sure if the director was trying to make it a big ball of confusion on purpose. If so, he defiantly succeeded. Again, still not sure what I'm supposed to be feeling. But it does have me feeling confused. So its got be feeling something at least. "},{"Title":"This was a funny, heartwarming story","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was hilarious at time, yet dealt with the subject of a handicapped young man very well. Despite not ever really knowing his handicap, as he seemed to get better through the film. The love story between Pumpkin and Carolyn, was so beautifully done. It was lovely to watch her fall in love with him, and he her. The only thing I was initially unsure of was Pumpkin's age, Carolyn was a senior in College so I'm guessing she was 21. Pumpkin was in fact 18 yet was treated like a child by his alcoholic mother. When she catches them in bed together and calls Carolyn a paedophile, that of course would not be the case, with a three year age gap. Hank Harris was amazing in the role of Pumpkin. Since watching this film last night I have been unable to get it out of my head. This film really touched me deeply. Can't wait to watch it again "},{"Title":"My new favorite sleeper film!","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved it. If you loved The House of Yes or Legally Blonde, you'll love this film. I was really surprised to see rather low ratings for this film on IMDb and Rotten Tomatoes, but I really think this is one of those sleeper films that will never be epic, but the story is great and it's an easy film to take-in. This is a comedy so dark, it makes Heathers appear vanilla in comparison. They stop at nothing to make a joke, which takes a huge risk of offending a number of viewers &#x96; and I admire that bravery. Many sites say the film is the most underrated in a decade.Basically, Christini Ricci has an Elle Woods-type perfect boyfriend, a perfect sorority life and a family who thrives on status when her sorority chooses to help disabled persons as their charity for the year. Each sister is assigned a person to help, and Ricci ends up falling in love with her retard (a word used a great deal throughout the movie), has sex with him and shatters her perfect life.A good portion of this movie certainly isn't politically correct, however, Ricci's character serves as the balance, making many of the dark elements laugh-out-loud hilarious. I probably could have lived without the West Side Story-style fight scene towards the end, but all-in-all, I think this is without a doubt a must-see film! "},{"Title":"One major WTF","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I stumbled across this tonight, never having heard of it and without looking up its premise - I've never said What the f#ck?! out loud so many times in my life (tho the two hours I spent suffering thru No Country For Old Men comes close).The movie plays like an acid flashback, becoming increasingly surreal as the dialogue goes from weird to bugfuggen insane. BUT, once I realized just how hard my leg was being pulled - and became resigned to having my limb then pulled off and used to beat my brains in - I grew to appreciate the satire, wit, and utterly inappropriate insanity. Somewhere between Heathers, Jawbreaker, the Forbidden Zone, and Richard O'Brien's Shock Treatment, that's where you'll find Pumpkin.Along with a lot of DVD and TV browsers muttering What the f#ck?!?! "},{"Title":"Great Drama","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I took this DVD from Blockbuster's shelf, under the label comedy. this is only a comedy at the beginning, so don't be tricked. The first few minutes of the movie make it seem as though the movie will be a teen girl movie. so does the back summary on the DVD/Video cover. It's not like that at all. It's about a sorority girl that has it all, a perfect life (perfect tennis player boyfriend, pretty face, good grades, money). She ends up having to be a mentor to a challenged man, and shortly after she gets a reality check. On the trailer, it shows enough details about what happens in the movie, which I would have thought could be spoilers. The aim, though, of the director, was to make a smart story, not an unpredictable movie. so the movie WAS predictable at some parts, but not on others.The movie is great, it changes moods maybe a bit too drastically, but i still give it a high rating. Christina Ricci was great in the movie, and so was Hank Harris. In fact, most of the actors/actresses did quite a good job. 8/10. "},{"Title":"why can't people can't see its intended campiness?!","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My comments (WARNING- POSSIBLE SPOILERS)I thought overall the movie was decent.  I think the excellent soundtrack (did Belle and Sebastian write that track just for this movie?) helped it quite a bit though.  Mood and 50's white-bread campiness in acting style was very Edward Scissorhands/Pleasantville-like...in terms of the nosy neighbors, the conformity, the whole ostracization, the gosh golly gee dialogue...etc etc...nothing really groundbreaking or different though...Reading the reviews, what irks me is that people are taking the movie at face value and can't just see that some scenes were clearly done tongue-in-cheek and/or were not meant to be realistic in any sense- Car going off cliff explodes 3 times before even hitting anything (boyfriend survives) - Boyfriend (Kent?) suddenly becomes understanding, sensitive, and supportive immediately after the accident (Loved his pained grimace when they kissed in front of him) - The West Side Story-type soundtrack during the fight (Loved Kent's Fighting Irish fists a la Conan O'Brien) - The rival sorority doing a very staged celebration in front of their sorority house with a monstrous Trophy; you then see a teeny-weeny trophy in the other sorority sister's hands. - Ricci has to go to Long Beach Tech, and EGADs! has to live with regular people, who of course, like all common people, have roosters and chickens in the front yard (hahahahah!)Come on people. This movie is not supposed to be realistic. It is a quirky little funny film.  "},{"Title":"Pumpkin (2002) is a horrible movie, which is why it is awesome.","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin (2002) is a horrible movie, which is why it is awesome.Cristina Ricci plays Carolyn, a `typical' sorority girl.  Her chapter is signed up to be involved in the challenged games, which she opposes. Ricci's character does not want to be associated with `those types of people.'  However after getting to know one of the challenged athletes, named Pumpkin, she falls in love with him.  Satirical and witty in a dark way, Pumpkin challenges our views of sorority life, mothers, and the mentally retarded. Carolyn's sorority is depicted as being superficial and vengeful.  They shun Ricci's character for being too close to Pumpkin, but suck up to her when their chance of being the sorority of the year is in jeopardy. With the exception of Carolyn, the women are one-dimentional characters.  They are preoccupied with image, or how they are surveyed. They are viewed from the male perspective, and cater to what they think fraternity men want to see. Carolyn sees beyond their sheltered view with help from the simple and caring Pumpkin. Pumpkin's mother is overprotective of her son.  She pressures him to be a challenged athlete, neglecting that he is making progress through his relationship with Carolyn (Ricci).  Pumpkin is not allowed to grow up. His sexual stirrings horrify his mother and she punishes him for masturbating even though he is a grown man.  This depicts the stereotype of mentally retarded people being asexual.  These handicapped people are often thought not to be able to handle a sexual relationship or be capable of sexual attraction.  Obviously Pumpkin is capable of these feelings so we are left with two choices; Pumpkin is not really handicapped, or handicapped people are able to have sexual thoughts and feelings. These stereotypes and male perspective are brought forward through certain alienation effects such as  Carolyn's sudden complete change of heart, the one sidedness of her sorority sisters, incredible acts such as explosions that do not harm those involved, and the unbelievable relationship between Pumpkin and Carolyn's ex-boyfriend.  These exaggerated and incredible aspects of the film make us wake up from the plot and interpret what issues in our world are being examined.  Or the acting might just be really bad. Although many of us would be quick to dismiss this movie as unentertaining or unrealistic, that is the point of the movie.  When something isn't realistic, we ask ourselves why.  In this case, Pumpkin is unrealistic because it oversimplifies many groups of people; an act we commit when describing many races, cultures, and economic and social statuses.  We are faced with a reflection of how we generalize sorority girls and the mentally retarded and we realize that there must be another side of the story. This reflection also shows how we, and others, define our identities from how we are classified; by race, class, gender, sexuality, and many other properties.  It also leads us to see that many of these generalizations are false.  "},{"Title":"Apparently, this film speaks differently to each who see it.","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is a testament of sorts to the ambivalence of Pumpkin that so many people who obviously love movies (imdb members who take the time and effort to comment here) could watch this movie, and come away with such a vast disparity of opinions, not of the film's overall quality, but as to exactly what kind of movie the director, screenwriter and producers were trying to tell in the first place.  It seems several commentators here actually took the movie at face value, and thought it a straight-faced romance between a privileged sorority member (Ms. Ricci who, arguably, plays it so brilliantly straight-faced, the audience can't help but be left off balance) and a mentally- and physically-handicapped boy whose quiet suffering inspires our heretofore self-indulgent protagonist to take stock in herself, and look beyond the shallow limits of her egocentric worldview.  For the first 10 or 15 minutes of this movie, it is understandable to think that it is nothing more than a big-screen production of an afterschool special.  Not long thereafter, though, Pumpkin's tone is uncut camp.  Pumpkin is NOT black comedy, a genre marked by subtle undercurrents of the macabre that allow its audiences the occasional uncomfortable laughs, but in which larger and decidedly UN-funny themes are at the heart of the movie.  (See Todd Stolenz's Happiness) Pumpkin does not address weighty issues, it lampoons those who do.  Ricci's Carolyn comes about as close to self-understanding as Halley's Comet does to this planet once every 76 years (a scant 39 million miles on April 11, 1986).  This Pumpkin pie is pure farce filling in a camp-comedy crust, baked 90 minutes in an oven set on Mockery...then, served cold.  Very cold. "},{"Title":"Good Film Ruined By Bad Filmmaking","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure whether or not Pumpkin was a good movie. It could be artistic genius, or it could be a group of writers, directors and sound guys who just do not know what they are doing.If the film was indeed intended to be artistic, then the acting was not so bad because most of the most of the actors can be excused for not adding depth to their performances. The fact that the actors who play the two lead roles, Pumpkin and Kent, actually do lend better than stereotypical performances to this film, however, makes one wonder just how intention was the suckiness provided by the other actors.Overall, however, his was a decent film that keeps audiences watching, and the filmmakers should be commended for doing a movie on this particular subject. Sadly, when we see films centered on mental illness, they usually involve some rare disease unknown to most people. While I do respect the fact that those movies are made to increase awareness on those diseases, I would like to see more films made about those people like Pumpkin who just have basic mental retardation.The film could have been better if they had treated this subject more seriously. Random inexplicable plot events, horrible sound effects and terrible choices in background music do not a good movie make. "},{"Title":"Bizarre Genre Mish-Mash","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not much point adding yet another plot summary.  I'm guessing this was meant as a take-off on the grand Douglas Sirk melodramas, with a pinch of '80's style 'Dim Men and the Women Who Come to Love Them' (i.e. Mel Gibson's Tim, Harrison Ford's Regarding Henry, Forrest Gump et al).  Add a last minute jigger of camp (not that'll it'll help) and you've got ....this.It might've worked, if it had faked a little sincerity.  As it is, it's just mortifying. Made my husband laugh, tho'. "}{"Title":"Left me feeling a bit limp","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As much as I LOVE Christina Ricci (my main reason for seeing this film), I was a bit disappointed in the film.  Although it made me laugh in some places, I felt it was way too drawn out.  The love they shared was touching, but the drama of the story, just left me feeling a bit limp.  I was wanting this film to be as darkly funny as Election or Rushmore, but it never quite got there. "},{"Title":"Very Unique Movie","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie on showtime. it was very good, I liked it. I thought Christina Ricci was really good in it...she is a real babe,...and I thought she was really pretty as a blonde ( The story of this movie I understood very well, because, I myself, spent time working with disabled people, much like the ones in this movie, so I feel I understand them more then some might. And that's one reason why I liked this movie. it is very unique. you dont see alot of movies like this one. the one thing I do have to say about it though, is that, sometimes it seems like a serious Drama film, then, it goes for a more un serious comedy approach. all in all, Pumpkin is a fun film. and I recomend it, epceally to people who can relate to people with dissabilities. "},{"Title":"GOOD IDEA, POORLY EXECUTED","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS CONTAINED HEREIN. This movie has a good idea (a shallow rich girl falling in love with a retarded boy and the problems this causes for all sides), but it is horribly, I say terribly, executed. The viewer must make a ton of leaps of faith because the plot is full of holes. In other words things just happen without explanation and you are left to assume what happened and fill in the awfully big gaps for yourself without question. The perfect example is when the retarded guy and his pals magically know the prom is going on, know where it is, and have all managed to slip away from their parents and appear together in 3-piece suits. What the Hell? There are too many scenes like this in the movie to count. And I find this very insulting to the viewer. The movie also goes off on a ton of tangents to nowhere. But, the biggest, most obvious problem with this movie, and the one that makes this movie nothing more than a distasteful exercise, is that for all its self-righteous preaching about how valuable, useful, and able-bodied retarded people are, there isn't one actual retarded person in the cast- not even its star. I really think this needs to be remade by a competent director and use real retarded people.  "},{"Title":"Plastic yet cute","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie felt stale and like plastic and so did the acting in it. The directors Anthony Abrams and Adam Larson Broder has done a terrible job or they wanted the acting in it to be as mentioned. The world in the movie felt surreal, like in a plastic bubble and the supporting cast didn't do much to aid in the performance except for Hank Harris and Brenda Blethyn (the only two that felt like real people in the movie). Yet, if you are looking for a movie that doesn't say much, but is kind of cute then this one's for you.  "},{"Title":"Stumbles, but crosses the finish line","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The actors save this movie, despite the odd pacing. In general, the actors manage to avoid stereotypical portrayals and deliver a believable story. Despite the dangerously stereotypical writing.My wife loved it. "},{"Title":"hilarious movie","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seems to me many of you have no idea what this movie was, and consequently missed an amazing satire.  This movie made fun of society by using the disabled, in such a way that was truly remarkable.  A few notable scenes that were genius... the school counselor who says how wrong it is to be in love with a retard.  Ricci's mother's belief that she is going through a phase and can be cured and her father just beside himself not knowing what to do.  The hollywood turnaround in Ricci's tennis boyfriend from jerk to a coach and true believer in the power of the handicapped.  And finally the big fight scene in which pumpkin associates his toppling the tennis phenom due to his training. Definitely rates up there with other recent societal films like Fight Club and Happiness. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the negative comments","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe its my growing infatuation for Christina Ricci or maybe I like the idea of a story where a character needs to overcome odds (and I never get old of this all to common theme in movies) but I liked this movie.It was never meant to be the greatest movie of all time and for someone to say that it is the 2nd worst movie they have ever seen is a stretch in my mind.The characters were believable (if any of you have been to college you would know that 99% of the people you meet are closed-minded) and the acting was great.  Hank Harris took on a difficult role and did it with courage and honesty.Christina Ricci is just becoming an amazing actress and you can't help but be rooting for her in this movie to keep fighting the fight she believes in. When she gives in on the fight momentarily you feel sad but it definitely does not ruin the movie.This is a story that needs to be told, the beautiful girl can give up everything she has for the special boy.  It has been done before but this movie definitely figured out the correct way to do it.This movie being too long is definitely not something I would say, I was geniunely upset it was over. "},{"Title":"Clumsy, Inarticulate, But Sweet","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   I might also add `overlong,' but those first three adjectives aptly describe the main character, a handicapped athlete named `Pumpkin,' (Real name, `Jesse,' but we don't find that out until the end of the movie) who is mentored by an initially snotty, superficial sorority queen, Carolyn (Christina Ricci). Carolyn's unease in dealing with a handicapped person is eventually replaced by compassion, then love; and Carolyn soon discovers the consequences of  her `forbidden' love for Pumpkin as her world is quickly turned upside down. David Harris is terrific as the title character. He carefully treads the narrow line between being simply sweetly misunderstood and repulsively geeky. Pumpkin apparently suffers from fairly mild cerebral palsy, so his physical evolution is reasonably convincing, in a `wishful thinking sort of way. One of my nephews has CP, and he has shown terrific improvement in the last two or three years, since he grew up. So I can believe the `love of a good woman' could bring the kind of progress we see in `Pumpkin'.After some initial flat line readings, Christina Ricci settles into her `Carolyn rich bitch' character quite comfortably. Her exasperation at her new found feelings are quite believable.  I'm married to a handicapped athlete, and every emotion Carolyn articulates I felt at one time or another early in my relationship with my wife.One of the best things pointed out by `Pumpkin' is the prejudice experienced by pretty much everyone born with crippling birth defects.  While attending school, both my wife and my nephew were placed in `special' education classes along with moderate to severely `mentally challenged' children. Just because someone can't walk, hear, see, or is mildly spastic, doesn't make them `retarded,' and this whole `special' thing is a well meaning but condescending manner of categorizing people. I've partied with players on a `quadriplegic rugby team' (imagine!), and these guys are just as crude, horny, etc. as any other bunch of male sports jocks.As I said, `Pumpkin' runs too long and could lose a good fifteen to twenty minutes.  WARNING - SPOILER Carolyn's boyfriend becomes paralyzed after a near fatal automobile accident and eventually coaches Pumpkin's team.  Though such `deathbed conversions' do happen, it strains credibility of a movie that's already bursting at the scenes with `good intentions' and wishful thinking. NOTE TO PRODUCER CHRISTINA RICCI  It's MUCH better NOT to show an automobile accident than to present an unconvincing one. Cars generally don't explode from hitting guardrails and BEFORE they strike the ground. More importantly, if someone DOES survive such an accident, they are burned beyond recognition unless they escape the vehicle before it explodes. Carolyn's boyfriend doesn't appear to have so much as a scratch.In any event, `Pumpkin' is worth seeing, and, for those of us with the personal experiences to appreciate its deeper meanings, it's a very worthwhile movie. Check it out.  "},{"Title":"GENIUS","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is frickin great and remains one of my favorites.  Hank Harris is brilliant, and it's a relief to encounter writing such as this in our shallow age of comic book movies, inflated breasts, and massive car explosions.Bravo! "},{"Title":"A very SPECIAL romantic comedy.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Too all those who didn't like this film, the best argument I can make for you is, `That's too bad, you've somehow lost your whimsy.'Personally, I love little films that take you to interesting places, this one does it very well. Pumpkin fits in perfectly to a wonderful little genre of films like Ghost World and My First Mister. If only every fifth film were as good and sweet as this little flawed gem... Oh, that'd be so wonderful.While many aspects of the plot are wholly unoriginal, the film really works. While it is true, there are portions of the movie that aren't perfectly polished, I just didn't mind. I was worried the ending wasn't going to go where it should, and thankfully my fears didn't materialize. Seen in pieces, that is seeing each scene as individual and separate from the whole, this isn't a terrific film, but when the pieces go together, as with the movie experience, it definitely becomes more than the sum of it parts. A sweet fable, a silly comedy along with something to think about.Christina Ricci and Hank Harris are a great screen couple. Sam Ball also deserves a round of applause for his performance! Bravo Sam! This film was so enjoyable, it reminded me of films like `Revenge Of The Nerds', `Election' and the terrific `Ray Bradbury's The Wonderful Ice-Cream Suit'. When you need a lift a good romantic comedy always does the trick, this one does the trick, and puts a little twist on the usual formula! If you enjoyed `Pumpkin' look for an obscure romantic comedy called `Paperback Romance', starring real life husband and wife team Gia Carides and Anthony LaPaglia. To all those `Pumkin' boosters out there, &#145;I love you'. To all the Pumpkin haters I say &#145;too bad your so sad.'Here's hoping the producers release a SPECIAL EDITION with a commentary track! "}{"Title":"Great Flick","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I put off renting this movie for awhile because the previews realy didn't make it look like an enjoyable movie. In fact, the previews made it look awful. After seeing this movie, I can honestly say the only thing wrong with it are it's trailers.  I was very suprised with this movie and it's depth. I found Ricci to be 100% convincing as the girl who has to choose between her friends, her sorority obligations and heart. I loved all of the acting (except D. Swain, who always seems dirty to me and I her acting is awful as usual). I recommend this movie to everyone, not because it is a perfect flick, or because it is edge of your seat excitement until the end, but because it really is a heartwarming movie, that shows even if things don't work out, following your heart is the best choice always. "},{"Title":"An award-winner","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've been an IMDB comment-reader for a long time, but I never bothered to register before, because I didn't feel that I had anything important to say.However, I registered tonight so that I could let the World know that this film, Pumpkin is a TURKEY.  It is AWFUL!  It is unusually awful. From now on, whenever a bad movie is made, the producers of PUMPKIN should get royalties.I've seen some really bad movies in my time, but this is right down there at the rock bottom.  Awful, awful, awful, awful, AWFUL! "},{"Title":"see the film for yourself","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can imagine people being really confused after all these comments, you either love it or hate it I guess.  Too bad.  I hardly ever write comments on films, I guess I can't be bothered most of the time even though I benefit from other's writings since I watch a pretty absurd amount of movies.  I put off watching this one along time though, which is unusual for a sky blue flavored indie Ricci flick...something I would normally tear off the shelves and make a run for the door with.  But I don't know, the subject matter didn't interest me that much.  Fortunately I finally took the trouble to see it and I just know it's going to be one of those films I'll annoy people with trying to talk about. This is a good film, the writing is so smart it's astonishing.  It switches genres a lot, but in a subtle way that seems really natural....you just have to go with it, there are ridiculous bits intentionally, but that's part of what makes movies so great...exaggeration. It's a sweet film that obviously owes a lot to Romeo and Juliet, the characters are drawn in pretty astonishing ways...at first they're all stereotypical, but even the most superficial of them gets a chance at some point to be really human.  The screenwriter and director was quite generous there.  I was pretty dang impressed, and it was a fun ride at the same time.  Highly recommended.  Christina Ricci was fantastic as always, and the guy playing her boyfriend, the Paris character (not the Romeo character) was just brilliant.  He should be the next Cary Elwes, except that his humor was actually more subtle and more ridiculous at the same time.  Like I said it switches genres, but what a fun picture...I liked the comment here that mentioned it should have been a musical.  It has that feel to it sometimes.  I wouldn't have minded a couple of dance numbers...and if you're a person that really doesn't like that kind of thing...maybe this isn't quite the film for you...but maybe it is.  It's just a movie to let yourself go at and let it be what it is. Kudos to the filmmakers if anyone involved in the project happens to ever read this.  I was very impressed.  Very original and, oddly and appropriately for this picture, all the more original for being so Shakespearean. "},{"Title":"What the heck?","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *Possible Spoilers Ahead*I Just saw Pumpkin and I was stunned by how bad the movie was. The acting was very poor and the plot was not well done neither. My biggest problem is you expect this important message of social conformity, finding ugliness in what is acceptable, and finding beauty in what is unacceptable but it just does not come out the way that it should. The message is rushed and you do not feel taken in by the characters, Carolyn and Pumpkin. Frankly, at the end of the movie I didn't feel for what happened to them or any of the other characters. "},{"Title":"Could this movie have been worse?","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My husband and I love Christina Ricci and we picked up Pumpkin simply because of her, but this movie just wasn't worth it. Seeing her doing the hula dance still didn't make this movie worth it.This movie is a muddle of inane cliches and one-dimensional characters. The filmmakers didn't know whether to be funny or dramatic and it ended up just plain stupid. Pumpkin (the movie, not the character) tries so hard to do so many different things that it doesn't do any of them adequately.I suspect that the people who think this film is deserving of an Oscar are the same sort of people that find a blotch of paint on canvas to be a truly profound statement about the meaning of life. "},{"Title":"Misguided, as clever as it is.","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some spoilers  The makers of this movie clearly spent about a collective 10 minutes studying a) the mentally challenged, b) sororities, c) the law, and d) filmmaking.  All of this is easy to overlook, due to the overwhelming witticism and self-acknowledging irony cudgeling you brutally about the head right through the end.  I know, I know, many critics love the sensibility that in today's era, who says a movie has to be ABOUT something?  Fine.  A movie, like this one, does NOT need a purpose, or an objective, or consistency, or to be anything but clever.  Filmmakers delight in not giving viewers what they're expecting, and I'm all in favor of that.  But this movie is clever only insofar as the deeply uneducated can ever be.  If you're going to be purposeless, at least be informed - at least know what you're talking about.  This film seems to suffer from the misapprehension that if you're FUNNY you don't have to be RIGHT.  It isn't true.  Many people have commented on the sensitivity with which the handicapped characters are treated - commending the screenwriters for arguing that the mentally challenged have feelings too.  I would hope that in this day and age this isn't something we have to be told, and would argue that a large part of the reason this is common knowledge is due to GOOD films that deal with the mentally ill or handicapped (see Awakenings, or Rain Man.  Really.)  I would also argue that the handicapped people in Pumpkin are treated as carelessly and shamefully as any movie I've seen.  They are treated as set pieces, as an emotive device to hide the film's complete lack of awareness.  Argue that Pumpkin is never even diagnosed in order to challenge our system of classification and assignment.  Go on.  As near as I can tell, Pumpkin is not so much handicapped as he is overwhelmingly lazy.  His transformation by the end of the movie, while not complete- as the last shot signifies- is absurd to the point of obscenity.  That a handicapped young man could be wheelchair-bound and near-catatonic in the beginning and winning a marathon race and spouting aphorisms on the nature of pain by the end is an insult to the people who spend their lives trying to help challenged teens.  Obviously we're not supposed to like or dislike any of the characters - they're all flawed and human and satires of themselves, and in a movie this clever, that's expected.  This film had many tremendously clever scenes, dealing with the concepts of beauty, wealth, sororities, social charity, suicide, sex, and other popular targets, and these scenes are, indeed, laugh-out-loud funny.  So it's that much more unfortunate that the movie's makers chose to make a movie about something they so clearly do not understand.  As a straight social satire, ignoring the ENTIRE Pumpkin plotline, this could have been a great movie.  As it is, they've named the movie after and centered the film on its weakest plot point.  Are we supposed to believe that Carolyn has learned anything by the end?  She obviously knows no more about the handicapped, or Pumpkin's particular situation, in the end than she does at the beginning.  Are we to believe that her efforts, while misguided, are forgivable because they were well-intentioned?  They are not.  She hasn't thought about anything.  She brings a wheelchair-bound boy to the beach (ever try to push a wheelchair on sand?) to play volleyball and hopefully make a love connection with Carolyn's charity-case friend, somehow equating the loneliness of an overweight young woman surrounded by beautiful people with the biological short-circuitry that caused Pumpkin's situation, whatever that is.  But it's cool, because this isn't a movie about a character who learns anything, or who grows, or who does anything in particular of any note.  Christina Ricci attempted a similar character (one who is incapable of empathy or redemption) in The Opposite of Sex, and that's fine.  As a modern audience, we can appreciate that not everything is about anything.  But at least you can be accurate.  I hated The Other Sister for similar reasons that despite good intentions, the screenwriters insisted on having the handicapped characters wax philosophical about the nature of their disorders.  Happy or not, there is such a thing as a person who is incapable of overcoming the obstacles that have been put in their way.  But the way Pumpkin's writers treat the handicapped is just abusive.  I fear that some people who will see this movie will think that Pumpkin's transformation can happen in real life.  It can't, unless I was right, and he's just been malingering for his first sixteen years, enjoying the comfort that being considered a vegetable has afforded him.This movie is pure fantasy.  There is nothing of any value attached to the plot - all scenes with any humorous value have nothing to do with Pumpkin.  The car crash, the suicide attempt, the sorority recruiting scenes, are all as tongue-in-cheek funny as they can be.  But as much as the movie IS about anything, it's not about these scenes, which is regrettable.  I'm amazed that Roger Ebert, someone who is usually aware that being clever is not enough to make a good movie, gave this movie three and a half stars.  He originally claimed that he would only give movies zero stars if they were, not necessarily badly made, but actually damaging to the people who saw them.  This movie has nothing good to offer other than a few laughs, and has the potential to dramatically undermine people's ability to understand the handicapped.  People might actually think this movie's ideas are serious.  At least movies like Scary Movie or Very Bad Things are obviously satire, and leave others (What's Eating Gilbert Grape or Rain Man) to set the record straight.  I give this movie my most vehement zero stars, because it was bursting with intelligence and creativity and visual style, and it was all ruined because the writer wouldn't spend an afternoon at the library.  A movie cannot be both purposeless and uninformed.  The filmmakers should be ashamed that some people took their movie seriously. "},{"Title":"witty and amusing","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are two things I quite appreciated in this movie. The first one is the straightforward uncomplicated satire of the high class college life. That 'life-is-easy' attitude can be found in every action, thought or idea of the sorority girls and their parents. The bluntness and candour of Christina Ricci's character is perplexing and amusing at the same time.***possible spoilers***The second thing I liked is the multi-dimensional construction of certain characters. I would say the most surprising character, somehow more sensible and compassionate that one would first believe is Kent. I don't say that for the strange twist in his character development from the end, but for the small things he did and said in the first half of the movie (like in the beach incident)***end of spoilers***Overall, the funny and ironic approach of the movie, the good performances of the actors make the choice of watching it a good one and somehow lessen its flaws. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, philosophical movie","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so touching, and moving.  It showed that people who have handicaps have feelings too, and that love can blossoms anywhere.  I cried during the scene on the beach with Caroline and Pumpkin talking about being a broken mirror.  It was so terrible when she forgot him on the beach, yet he forgave her so easily.  Pumpkin was so adorable, the audience had to love him. He was determined to make Caroline his, and never gave up.  If people could be more like him, the world would be so much better.  It is beyond me how someone could treat someone so poorly just because they were not given certain abilities.  How they can call them a retard.  I'm sorry, but that is mean. Retarded means slow, or slowed down.  It's like calling them stupid.  I mean, you can call something, like a car, or a computer retarded b/c it is being slow, but c'mon, a human being who is slightly different than you or me.  Come to think of it, in reality, they are not that different.  I mean, my vision is worth crap, but I still have feelings.  One of my friends is double jointed, but that doesn't make her a freak (I mean, she is one naturally, but otherwise....;P) This movie is very well down, & I hope it will change people's perspectives of the handicapped...I know it changed mine "},{"Title":"More socially aware than one might think.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is more call for social reform in this movie than one might take from it at face value. Th problem with this movie is that it is probably a little too politically incorrect for its own good. It raises the bar for irreverance in cinema. The premise of this movie is truly touching, and in its own way conveyed that well. I left this movie with the realization that the world isnt perfect but you can still make life a personally great experience. This movie is a satire and alot of people might interpret the irreverance of a satire based on this subject matter a bit taboo or innapropriate. This movie is not for the thin skinned. It also isnt for the sympatetic/empathetic pseudo-intellectuals that think they enjoy independant movies. This is for the true intellectual that can read in between the lines and knows when to take some situations literally and others figuratively. Example being... I liken the people that took this movie to offense to the character of Cici. She was more than offended when Carolyn tried to hook her up with Pumpkin and she just couldnt see past the poor delivery to the inherently good intentions Carolyn had. This movie was very touching for me because there was so much vulnerability in each and every character. You could feel, even empathize with every man characters pain. Carolyns realization that life isnt as peachy as she might have imagined. Pumpkins battes with his inadequacy as a person with slight and I say slight mental retardation. Kents wounded heart and pride after being dumped for Pumpkin... The list goes on. But I feel the most important subject to touch on that this movie stressed was that Carolyn treated Pumpkin like a normal person and he blossomed. Its something we should keep in mind. Just because there is mental retardation, doesnt mean that they are somehow subhuman. "},{"Title":"I'm Baffled . . .","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  . . . but in a good way.  I think.  This movie was a series of comic stereoptypes come to life and put into increasingly bizarre scenarios. However, it was really easy to watch, and I couldnt wait to see what would happen next . . . "}{"Title":"Worth a visit","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin is a classic example of an irreverent, quirky, humorous film. Parts remind me of David Lynch, of the Cohen brothers, of Woody Allen.  It's not perfect.  Some scenes appear designed to elicit no more than groans. But...but...Pumpkin has its moments.  It is at heart a sweet film that never forgets how cynical and superficial the world is.  The principals do a wonderful job; Samuel Ball, in particular, is so over the top with his characterization of a collegiate jock/stud that when he occasionally expresses sensitivity or caring deeper than one stereotypically expects, it confuses and confounds.  Christina Ricci continues her winning trend of nonconformist characters.  Hank Harris is sweet as her mysteriously impaired love interest.  All in all, it's a very pleasant film that will leave you chuckling and humming Gentle Waves' Falling from Grace well into tomorrow. "},{"Title":"This movie doesn't know what it wants to be.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't waste your time with this movie.  Seriously, if you have any artsty friends that recommend this movie to you, and usually have good/interesting taste, they're way off base on this one.  Don't listen. In fact, run far, far away. Please.  This movie has absolutely no idea what it wants to be. Mean?  Funny?  Heart warming?  Writer, director, producers, and actors never hit the right tone, are never on the same page, and make one confusing mess of a movie.  All involved should be ashamed.   Man, why.  Two hours of my life I'll never get back. "},{"Title":"This Pumpkin left a bad taste in my mouth...","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After hearing good things about this movie, I finally decided to rent it. Too bad I hadn't heard more bad things.The movie begins interestingly enough by developing several quirky characters. The story seems like it might take you through a serious, poignant relationship between a socialite and a challenged person.However, what started out quirky and cute, became slapstick - WAY too over the top for my tastes. I'm not sure why the story decided to change direction like that. It had me going at first. But by the end, I thought I was watching something more akin to Porky's Revenge IX, or Police Academy XXVI.There is a direct parallel between the tennis player's car and the plot of this movie. Both quickly travel straight to the bottom of the cliff, ending in a horrible mess.I'd tell you what my wife thought of it, but she bailed out at the halfway point - realizing that doing the dishes was far more entertaining than watching this film. "},{"Title":"Strangness Spun into Social Satire","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All alliteration aside...(he he he) Pumpkin is one of those films that will push it's way into my mind, unannounced, and univited, for years to come. What is the movie about? Dating retarded people? Trying to show the meaningless meanness of life? Absurdist humor? Absurdist satire? The movie is full of manipulation, from the imagery, to the music, to the language, to the acting, to the directing. It pulls you, pushes you, and then, ultimately, makes you say...WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON HERE?!. Pumpkin is a film that forces conversation afterward. And I think *that* is the point. It makes you think. About what, I am not sure, but about a lot is for sure. I am still wondering. But one thing I do know...I liked it. I just wish I knew why.  "},{"Title":"Some funny, provocative elements but loses control in the end","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm getting too old to appreciate the college sorority/fraternity comedy formula, but Pumpkin jumbles up enough interesting black comedic elements and interesting bit characters to entertain and provide a few belly laughs for the first half. It may make you look at whether you laugh at weird disabled people, or feel uncomfortable wondering whether this movie is doing just that. I like that it is provocative in that way. Descends into silliness and boredom towards the end. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was Pumpkin a little off-center, a little disjointed, a little rough, yes on all the above, but what a nice little flick.  I don't think this was quite what you would call an indie but a refreshing change of pace from the formulatic Hollywood stuff out there.  Not that I am against that, but while this film was definitely out on the back burner it was a very good film with good performances and somewhat touching content.  Christina Ricci was great in her role, hopefully we see more of her in the future, i think she shows that given the right movie she can definitely carry it.  Disappointing still is that films like this have almost no chance to be recognized at awards time.  Not that this was one of the years best, but individually, I think Ricci holds her own where you could argue her for a mention in the Academy Awards.  But, unfortunately, the BIG flicks always hold out till late in the year to take advantage of the nominations procedure.  Too bad for her, but nevertheless this was one of the better films I saw during 2002, quirky and off the beaten path, but well worth it! "},{"Title":"Quite good.","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quite a good film, the soundtrack is brilliant, acting is brilliant but the plot lets it down a little. Wasnt sure weather to laugh or cry in some scenes. hmmm its a very hard film to rate but i will give it 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I found the film to be 2 dimensional and pointless","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin is a film about a girl returning to her sorority, AO Pi,  for her senior year.  AO Pi's goals have been to take the crown away for a neighboring sorority,Tri Omega and the to do this they select to mentor mentally challenged young adults.  Carolyn (Ricci) is initially against the idea, but eventually befriend and later falls in love with the person she is helping.  This outcasts her from AO Pi, causes friction with the her boyfriend, and is against both their parents wishes. I found the film to be very flat and pointless. The acting was laughably sad, and there was no character development.  I actually stopped the movie before the end (rental). I in no way would recommend this movie "},{"Title":"Funny on many levels","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie and the last reviewer just didnt get it. This movie was great because it WASNT your standard tear jerker crap. she was real.....in her world  (carolyn) could think of nothing worse than falling in love with a retarded boy. it was all about the fake clueless world of greek college BS. like when she asked everyone why are you all smiling? they were on their knees praying for her to attend a formal? WHO GIVES A S***!!!! THEY DID!!!  i mean even my friend who didnt graduate high school thought it was funny. it asked you who is REALLY retarded here? look just check it out....if you have an open mind or at least live in the world.... the elephant man. jesus give me a break. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good.","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had read a little about this movie some time ago, but had forgotten about it. Really good story. I found it to be funny and touching at the same time. I especially liked the portrayal of the Greek life on campus, really brought back some memories. "}{"Title":"Beware Scary Pumpkin!","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the scariest pumpkins I have ever encountered in my lifetime was not even experienced at Halloween time. Instead, it was witnessed when I watched the horrific film of the same name. `Pumpkin' stars Christina Ricci as shallow sorority chic who befriends and eventually falls in love with a disabled intrinsic named Pumpkin. However, the truly disabled individuals were the filmmakers of `Pumpkin'.  Its premise was more presented as a humiliating love joke to disabled individuals. Christina Ricci, who was so amazing in the 1999 film `The Opposite of Sex', was quite the opposite here with her dreadful performance.  In retrospect, this `Pumpkin' was more of a trick than a treat. * Failure   "},{"Title":"An Absolutely, Positively, Brilliant and Original Corker of a Film","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having never heard of 'Pumpkin' before, a friend recommended to me that I rent it.  His opinions tend to vary from mine, so I popped it into my VCR with some hesitation.  What I watched for the next two hours though was one of the most hilarious and brilliant films in recent memory.  'Pumpkin' subverts narrative, expectations and pulls the rug out from under us at every predictable turn.  The filmmakers were clever enough to always keep us on our toes, but also astute enough to make sure the head of the viewer was always in the right place.  No cliche was left unused or unturned.However, this film could not have achieved what it did without the ballast of the performances.  From the guy who played Kent to Julie, the head of the sorority, to Christina Ricci and Pumpkin, every actor seemed to be in on the joke, knowing how far to push things without going overboard into John Waters land.  These actors always treated the absurdity of the situation seriously and without judgment.  They were as integral to making the film work as the filmmaking itself.Having read all of the comments posted, it makes me only appreciate the film more that there is a divided opinion on the worth of the film.  Like the great works of art throughout history, it was the naysayers and the critics who helped bring into focus the raw nerves that a particular piece of art could touch.  And believe it or not, 'Pumpkin' is a work of art. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Pure genius 9.5/10","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know what is more funny this movie or the people complaining about the lack of reality in the film. The filmmakers must be rolling on the floor reading the majority of people's comments on this film. Yes, this movie is a comedy. It is also a drama, it is also satire, it is also farce, it is also parody. That is what makes this movie so wonderful. I don't understand those who complain about it not fitting perfectly into any one mold. Isn't great to have a film that can transcend the boundaries of convention?As for those complaining about the acting performances - it is called parody, the campiness was done purposefully. Christina Ricci was at her best in this film.For the person who claims that the movie never explained why he was named Pumpkin you obviously missed the poem at the end of the film (with the Cinderella reference).Anyone who appreciates humor that does not get rammed down one's throat, will enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"Horrible.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow. To say the least, this movie sucked. I watched it last night and the only thing that kept me from turning it off was all the chances I had to make fun of it. The writing was horrible, the characters were painfully underdeveloped, the plot was jumpy, the dialogue contradicted itself (I want to get to know him, Mom. So do it Oh, but I don't want to have anything to do with him.), and the director did such a bad job that all the actors appeared to have no talent whatsoever. I'm sorry, but these are not the characteristics of a good movie. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone unless I desperately wanted to inflict horrible pain upon them. "},{"Title":"Dazed and confused","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll start by saying that I liked Pumpkin - but not as well as I'd hoped.  As others have praised and/or lamented, it is confused and doesn't quite seem to know where it's going.  While some see this as awful and others as delightful, I'd attribute it to a lack of focus or a failure on the part of the filmmakers, NOT to inventiveness.Had I EXPECTED a jumble of satire, dark humor, romance, campiness and outright absurdity I might have rated it a lot higher (I grabbed this on impulse).In it's praise I will say that for the most part it treats the mental disability as a facet of the character and refrains from making (too many) cheap jokes and or sweeping generalizations about people who are or others who love/hate/abhor the mental disabled.Rating 6/10  "},{"Title":"Love it or Hate it.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say I really enjoyed this movie.  I know from having read many of the comments that many disagree with me for various reasons.  The strongest reason seemes to be that this film fit into no specific genre.  This was the appeal to me.  I enjoy a film in which I'm laughing one minute, feeling apalled the next, and enjoying a romance the next.  This movie is a fairy-tale satire.  It's got some funny moments, some sweet moments, and some disgusting moments (disgusting in the sense of a person's actions not disgusting like Dead/Alive).  But I can understand how many people would not enjoy this movie.  I felt the ending was lacking.  The car explosion was a little over the top for the type of movie it was (I am now speaking of style as opposed to genre.  Both Dumb and Dumber and The Sunshine Boys are comedies but have totally different styles of comedy).  But the comedy was nice and dry and the drama well acted and directed.  This is a love it or hate it movie.  I recommend seeing it if you're able to watch a film with multiple genres.   "},{"Title":"quirky and provocative, warm and witty; doesn't dumb things down for us","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  NO SPOILERS Although this movie has a quirky, surrealistic, water-color-painting type style that takes a bit of getting used to, I found it to be witty and meaningful. I think the reason that a lot of people found it 'pointless' or 'offensive' was because the director didn't dumb anything down for us; he let us come to realizations on our own (and I like that in a movie).It is a controversial movie. I think that the particular disability of the character 'Pumpkin' is made purposefully vague (and is never given a name) so as not to make those of us who know a lot about a particular disabilities feel the need to point out mistakes or to say to ourselves 'that could never happen to *my* disabled loved one, I am offended/this movie is stupid' and such. In my experience with disabled folks (my little sister included), the fact is that there are millions of disabilities, and each has a broad range of severities.  We, as people, have have much to learn about the vast range of disabled psyches. So it seems obvious to me that the character Pumpkin cannot serve as a representative of all disabled people, nor do I think he was meant to.Rather, 'Pumpkin' is a story about these *particular* characters, and how they affect each other; I think it is a good story. It deals with a taboo topic, and does so with both compassion and humor.  The style is unique and interesting, the acting is wonderful, and I think the movie got a very undeserved bad rap.  I recommend this movie to anyone who wants to laugh and think, whether or not you have a  disabled loved one; whether or not you know anything about the topic. "},{"Title":"great love story for the openminded","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  People are closed minded. In this film, there were people who were not able to accept the fact that a pretty, well-adjusted girl could be in love with someone who was mentally unstable.  If you didn't like this film, chances are it's because you can't accept this as reality either. Sure, it seems like a far-fetched story, but the way it was presented was believable.I think it was a great story about love and soul mates.  Pumpkins soul just happened to be in the body of a disabled person.  Caroline *seemed* happy and content with her life before she met Pumpkin, but this was all an illusion.  Revolving your life around perfect palm trees and winning the sorority of the year award is ridiculous.  When she met Pumpkin, Caroline realized that she shouldn't be so shallow in the way she looks at the world.Its a strange love story... Its right up there with Harold and Maude. But considering what the majority of people are like, don't expect to like this film unless you are open minded.  "},{"Title":"I laughed; I cried","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most Hollywood movies follow a predictable trajectory; this one took a few brilliant turns and it took some risks. It was well worth it.The story is highly implausible in many ways, but that did not bother me. Just because this story probably could not unfold this way in real life does not mean it is a bad story.I was once a graduate student at a sorority/fraternity-dominated campus, and this movie is right on in its send up of Greek attitudes. This does not mean that the film is an accurate portrayal of all Greek students, any more than it is an accurate portrayal of mental challenges. But it does teach us something about both.The only scene I found entirely too implausible was the car crash. The car could not have gone that fast, the driver would not have been in such an old car, and it would not have exploded three times on its way down. I think that scene was spliced in from an older movie. Finally, had the accident occurred as shown, the driver would not have recovered -- face intact -- so quickly. "},{"Title":"Even for a satire, they overdid it.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS IN THE THIRD PARAGRAPHThe first thing that you force yourself to accept when you write a User Comment is that you are writing a critique for free, thereby angering and frustrating many External Reviews and committing your time to something the general public will probably never care about. PUMPKIN deals with the second thing you force yourself to accept that you have to put aside personal feelings to give a movie an honest review, even when 99.999% of the population cannot figure out why you would think anybody would care about your free critique. PUMPKIN hit me on that personal level. Therefore I had to sit back and fully realize that the satire is good enough to get a review that is surely better than that of another HALLOWEEN sequel.To win Sorority of the Year, AOPi begin a charity helping mentally challenged athletes succeed, but trouble brews when the star sister falls for one of the athletes.Personal feelings aside, PUMPKIN was cleverly pulled off, with excellent acting by Ricci and Ball. And the satire was a definite plus for people who caught on. The character of Anne Chung made me laugh while I was nearly rolling on the floor when Kent drove off the rail and the car blew up in all directions. But with the dry and biting wit, PUMPKIN still overdid the satire. The poetry class was easy to pick up on the joke, but they did not stop. Same goes for the rivalry with Hansie. I do not recommend PUMPKIN at all, even though it has its moments, the movie still gets boring and you still tend to wait for that predictable ending, made even more so with the final shot. "}{"Title":"Fabulously Overblown Teen Melodrama","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you relish the bad black-and-white teen movies of the '50s and '60s, PUMPKIN is the one you've been waiting for without even knowing it.  Writer-director Adam Broder happily stuffs the film to the bursting point with every old saw of the genre -- the obliviously contented Ozzie and Harriet parents, the ambitious sorority girls, the guy who achieves great things for love, the car crash as a weeping lover flees rejection; none of your favorite cinematic moments is overlooked or neglected.  This movie blows right through the top of the elevator shaft, gleefully cramming in every cliched shot, phrase and Filmic Moment as though it were a crazed shopper who'd won an all-you-can-stuff-in-your-cart-in-ten-minutes spree at K-Mart.  I can't think of another film since Curt McDowell's THUNDERCRACK that has suffused me with such dark glee, though HEATHERS was certainly a lob in the right direction.  If you have a blackish sense of humor and enjoy bad movies for their very badness, I think you'll like this little homage a whole lot.  Otherwise, have a little Geritol, folks, it's full of irony and good for you.  "},{"Title":"Not worth it...","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie falls just short of many things.  It lacks the true tongue-in-cheek shallowness of But I'm a Cheerleader and the warmth of I am Sam.  The feel of the movie is that the writer had one thing in mind, the director another, and the actors still a third.  This lends the movie a sense of imbalance and pettishness.  If you must watch this movie I suggest not knowing anything about mental illness because if you do you are likely to punch your television screen. The facts are skewed, it's not believable, and moreover it takes itself seriously while being so.  "},{"Title":"Very provocative story; you'll either love this movie or hate it.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Apparently, from reading some of the comments here, the viewers of this movie either love it or hate it. I just finished watching it. I didn't move the whole time it was on. At first I didn't know whether or not to be appalled & disgusted, or intrigued and touched by the story. I must say that this movie is one that will make you think about it and want to talk about it after it's over. I won't trot out my I know a mentally disabled person credentials, but will say that the idea of someone like Carolyn falling in love with someone like Pumpkin is heartening to me. Not every mentally disabled person is child-like or needing to be treated like a child forever. Pumpkin obviously wasn't. And Carolyn's personal growth, her bravery to explore just what it meant to have a relationship with Pumpkin is something to think about as well. To have her character go there is really interesting! Of course it's also considered a comedy and I DID find some of the scenes/situations very funny! There's very much a Stepford Wives feel to the peer pressure Carolyn feels. And everybody blames Carolyn whenever something goes wrong in THEIR lives, it was just too funny!! "},{"Title":"Love it or hate it, this is one of the year's best.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What's so great about Pumpkin and what must be maddening for those who don't enjoy it is that the film does not tell you how it should be taken. Every American film within recent memory consistently indicates to its audience this is where it's okay to laugh, or this is where it's okay to cry.  The humor in Pumpkin is dark and subtle.  It is not for everyone and not everyone gets it.  Consider the scene on the beach where the character of Carolyn runs to Pumpkin after she realizes she has left him there. First of all, the situation is so absurd, it's brilliant.  Then, Pumpkin tells Carolyn she's the smartest girl he's ever met.  We don't know whether to laugh or cry.  There is a whacked-out romanticism about the film which is completely endearing. In fact, so much of Pumpkin seems to be a joke and not a joke at the same time. That's what I found to be so wonderful about it.  It retains that tone throughout the entire film.I'm not aware of a film in the last couple years that has inspired so much passion for and against it, especially amongst my friends.  We should be thankful for such a daring and challenging film.  However, I believe if one truly takes the time to look closely at the movie, they will discover the hidden treasures in it as well. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen in a long time.","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin is one of the best movies I've seen in a long, long time. I still have no idea why it is listed under comedy though. I spent the whole two hours of the movie crying. Pumpkin, previously referred to as sick and obscene was anything but. I think it was a touching story, a story that opens up people's eyes and lets them know that some people are different, but are capable of everything. I think that Caroline's relationship was Pumpkin was something that many people can relate to. I think that many people are intimidated by people like Pumpkin. She was afraid because he was different, but Caroline saw inside of Pumpkin, and she learned to love him. If only more people could see what was inside of people, and not just the outside. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but wonderful...","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've got mixed feelings about this movie.  The acting was great, the pace was good, the directing was wonderful, but the dialogue was a little thin. There was also a lack of character development for both Pumpkin and his mother.  I could have stood for more emphasis on Carolyn and her roommates' friendship.  Overall, I'd give it 3 out of 5 stars.  It was enjoyable to watch, and as always, Christina Ricci was great. "},{"Title":"God bless Christina Ricci","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  She's one of the best young actresses, always searching for projects she's interested in and not stuff designed to make her a star.  Pumpkin is one of the most unusual films around...similar to Heathers in many ways....but still remains its own movie.  Christina Ricci is fabulous in the role of a sorority girl who finds her humanity after falling in love with a mentally challenged boy.  It's part satire, part black comedy, part romance...and it has received criticism for this.   But I admire a film that explores different genres...and when they are as entertaining as Pumpkin that makes it all worthwhile.    "},{"Title":"A poor attempt at black comedy......","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very poor attempt at black comedy. As to Pumpkin being compared to Heathers, the only connection I can make is that both film makers attempted to create something quirky and different. But where Heathers triumphed with humor and a delicious sense of nastiness, Pumpkin fails to capture even a sense of itself. I get it, but I don't care for it. And, for those of you who agree with that, did this movie seem incredibly long? I looked forward to the release of this DVD, Pumpkin didn't make the rounds of any theatres in my area. So, I really wanted to like it. But, alas.... "},{"Title":"Absurdism and hyper-irony","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoiler AlertWell, seems like a lot people don't like this movie one bit.  Perhaps that is because they fail to understand it.  For example, when Kent (Sam Ball), Carolyn's ex/boyfriend (Christina Ricci), falls off the cliff in his burning car, it's supposed to be absurd.  Of course no one could survive something like that, but that's why it's funny and IRONIC.  Pumpkin is chock full of wonderfully ironic and ultimately absurd moments, such as Carolyn forgetting, not once, but twice, that she had left Pumpkin (Hank Harris) at the beach.  Also, the reason so much of the movie may seem unrealistic is because it is satirizing and parodying other movies in the teen genre, however, this movie makes some of it so extreme that it ultimately becomes absurd and hilarious.  If you didn't like this movie, maybe you'd be better off renting something like Spider-Man or some equally intellectually devoid piece of moving picture detritus.  8/10 "},{"Title":"Um...no.","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   I can't even begin to understand why anybody liked this movie.  I will say that Christina Ricci looked beautiful and that the boy who played Pumpkin was a good actor.  Unfortunately, I feel I'm giving him extra credit because everything else in this movie was just so incredibly horrible.  To start with plot points that make this movie unbearable, there's the often-mentioned blowing up car scene in which Catherine's boyfriend escapes paralyzed but unscratched.  Not only is this incredibly unbelievable, but it had nothing to do with the movie other than to, supposedly, show him what it felt like to be in Pumpkin's shoes.  Um, help me if I'm the only one that noticed this, but Pumpkin was retarded and could walk, and the boyfriend (sorry, I just saw the movie and can't remember his name) ends up in perfectly fine mental health and paralyzed.  I really don't see the connection.  OK, also, who the heck is stupid enough to completely forget that they left someone on the beach?  That's insane.  I could go on and on, about the completely random scene where she swallowed all those drugs and survived, about why Kent (that's his name!) became a coach (?) for the Challenged Athlete's team, about what the deal was with the stupid bug in salad, but it's kind of painful to think about.  As for running problems with this movie  1.  The acting sucked.  Even Christina Ricci.  With the exception of Pumpkin (by the way, they never explained the meaning of his name at all), every single character in this movies acted excruciatingly absurd, especially Kent.  This guy was worse than any actor in any movie I've ever seen.  He makes me think of an elementary school play.  I'm /not/ joking.  2.  The cinematography sucked.  There were weird random close-ups that made the whole thing feel fake (as if other aspects didn't do that enough) and made me really uncomfortable.  3.  The casting sucked.  The people casted were just so completely far-fetched, including Pumpkin, that I couldn't handle it.  I mean, the woman who plays Suki on Gilmore Girls as a depressed psychomaniac?  I'll admit, she tried really hard, but she doesn't fit at all.  Neither does anyone else.  4.  Finally, the whole plot, the continuity, the theme, none of it was coherent.  Anyone who thought this movie was deep was seeing something that wasn't there, kind of like when you have a crush on a movie star because you feel like you know them or something.  There were so many scenes in this movie that could have been edited out because they just didn't have anything to do with anything.  There were entire characters that could have been edited out and it wouldn't have even mattered - like the professor.  And what was the deal with him falling to one knee after she left?  What was up with the weird hippie people?  Why would Kent /ever/ want Catherine back?  How did Pumpkin learn to walk and talk so well by the end of the movie when he couldn't even pronounce Catherine's name in the beginning?  How the heck did Pumpkin knock Kent down in the fight scene?  By running into him?  Please!  This movie is so ridiculous that I suggest you /do/ watch it, with a friend!  It's one of those bad, bad, bad, bad movies that'll leave you wondering, What? "}{"Title":"oddball masterpiece","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was simply astonishing.  It's so different, so daring and so unique that I can easily see why it has garnered a bevy of split opinions. Because the film deliberately does not tell you how to think (a rarity in American film), I'm not going to reveal what I believe to be the mysteries of the film.  Suffice it to say that the same way that Ionesco played with the absurdity of language upon the stage, Pumpkin seems to play up the absurdity of our common film language.  The movie undercuts everything it does.  For myself, this was not a story about a sorority girl who falls in love with a retarded boy.  The absurd premise is only a starting point which the filmmakers use to send up every teen drama which has ever been made. It makes you return to your own life unsure of where you stand.  I give this film a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Needed some proper direction...","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin is a somewhat random feeling story of a sorority girl falling in love with a disabled boy despite her perfect life.  An idea with a lot of potential, the film fails on nearly every aspect.As far as the story is concerned, it doesn't delve deep enough into any of its facets to truly shine.  The story has a lot of comic potential as well as a deeper, darker aspect that could have brought the film to a level of greatness rarely achieved in a sorority film.The direction of the film had its moments; many of its shots truly conveyed the motion, momentum and emotion of the moment, but on the whole it was masacared by the editing.  I was surprised by the amount of blatent, random editing and jarring cuts... the fades were poorly used to shorten many shots while other, better, shots were left at full length.The story wasn't extreme enough to achieve the feeling it was going for, and the contrast between the perfect world and the real world almost didn't exist.  The car crash at the end was so unrealistic it seemed to fit into an extreme version of the film, one that would have truly conveyed the grotesque nature of sorority life.A promising film with rare depth of character, I was really disappointed with the half-realized vision of this movie.  It should have been given to a director with the vision and sensibility of someone like Terry Gilliam.Worth the time to dissect and relatively enjoyable, Pumpkin is one film that failed to reach its potential. "},{"Title":"HANK HARRIS IS AWESOME","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WOW! All I can say is, Hank Harris made this movie so beautiful and touching as the title character. He is my favorite young actor and I hope to see him in many future projects. I cried through the entire film and am amazed at this young actor's range and depth.  "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never having heard of this film, I randomly picked it off the shelf, and cannot believe I'm not hearing about this film daily.It was brilliant.  It begins by washing over everything, people's speech included, with fifties-era clothing and opinions, and then manages to give us something completely different.  The performances by Christina Ricci and Hank Harris were outstanding.  Although I do believe that Ricci deserves to get some more recognition, I can't help but hope that she doesn't, so she can continue to churn out gems like this.This film had me jumping up in my seat, dying to know what happens next. It pulls your emotions in, and makes you really, really hope that society will not win.  No one believes that Pumpkin can feel.  He is retarded, and it seems that means he cannot love, yearn, or have sexual desires.  In today's society, the disabled community is beginning to have a voice, and tell people that they are just the same as everyone else, and this film painfully shows us that.  You want to jump in there, and scream at some of these people that you can't only pay attention to something different when it is good for your image.I will admit that this film had a few flaws.  Who can really believe that someone can careen off a cliff in a burning car, only to end up confined to a wheelchair, otherwise unscathed?  And the poetry professor who helps Caroline realize that the world can be ugly is something that has been done way too many times before.But, this still manages to make it into my top-ten list.  I liked that this ended up as a feel-good flick, but brought me there through disgust, rage, distress, and fear.  Not too many films can do that simply through a love story.  "},{"Title":"Genre Breaking Stuff","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Love it or hate it, this film is gonna make you think. It starts off in typical teen movie fashion with spoiled teens in a sorority house showing the audience how vapid and shallow they are - they worry nothing about the problems of the real world and concern themselves only with having the right charity and new girls to beat their arch enemies in the S.O.Y. contest. At this point you settle in for some 'Animal House' or 'Revenge of the Nerds' type action.** Spoilers **Cue Pumpkin Romanoff, a 'challenged' athlete. He enters the life of Carolyn, one of the sorority sisters and an unlikley connection develops. This budding relationship is painted with such bold strokes it almost borders on farce and you begin to wonder where the director is taking you. However, at no time is Pumpkin the butt of any joke. Instead, we see the supposed 'normal' people around the couple presented as the joke, from the mild (Pumpkin's overprotective mother) to the grotesque (Carolyn's Sorority sisters) all of whom try to break the couple up for their own ends. You begin to wonder who is actually challenged at this point.The second half of the film meanders a little as Carolyn lurches from being in love with Pumpkin to deciding she wants her old life back a couple of times. Eventually the situation comes to a head with Carolyn's spurned jock ex-boyfriend actually beating up her new disabled one in a fight outside the spring formal dance. I could not believe what I was seeing, this single scene is so daring and so open to criticism from more conservative quarters that I actually found myself clapping and cheering the directors. Pumpkin prevails in the fight by chance and the ex is so distraught he promptly has to go out and crash his car in a huge explosion.Since this crash is clearly meant to imply he dies (the car explodes before it gets anywhere near the ground), but we see him in the next scene merely(!) unable to walk we come to realise that the film is at least in part playing with it's tongue firmly in its cheek. It is using a paint roller to fill in the fine detail that other films would have used a tiny brush for.Once you get that you are supposed to view the overplayed events with a wry smile, the film snaps into focus and makes its points very well. What are those points? You should probably work those out for yourself but if you want my $0.02, I got a clear message that just because everybody tells you a thing is wrong, it doesn't make it so. Also that if you believe in something, you shouldn't give up on it.This film is not perfect, for example Carolyns Fat friend is used as a plot device to illustrate how confused Carolyn is when she attempts to set her up with Pumpkin which leads to a row between the friends. We then dont see her again for the rest of the film, which bearing in mind it is telling a story about society's misfits standing up for themselves is a bit of a shame. Many people will simply not get the irony of the film and will feel thay have wasted their time. It just doesn't fit well into any mold you try to put it in. Accept that and you will have a great time though.I'd give it an 8/10. Bravo Abrams and Broder, I look forward to your next project. "},{"Title":"take no prisoners","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  a black, take no prisoners, satire of a culture that uses euphemisms in place of expletive labels - if retarded can be described as special then I suppose N_____ becomes A_____ A_____ (sic) and so forth. The cast must have wanted to lynch the obsessive compulsive directors, but the editors, much to their credit, ran with it to produce a 10/10. Will anyone in this receive any Oscar attention?  If not, where do we (the audience) go from here?    "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The mass majority of the reviews on here for this film further proves that people who do not understand a movie shouldn't try to review it.  It is obvious the points the film was trying to convey were entirely lost to some people.  I won't begin to explain anything in detail because nothing I would say would make people understand.  Pumpkin is a wonderful movie, at times depressing while still funny.  I have seen it compared to Heathers which is also a great movie but I see nothing aside from the satirical cliche's that would be comparable.  This film takes something that is extremely taboo and very, very against PC in society and makes it almost understandable. Has anyone really ever thought about this situation?  Like a movie should be, Pumpkin is witty, intelligent and thought provoking.  Christina Ricci only further proves how great of an actress she has become while Marisa Coughlan finally given something that can show she is quite capable of good acting skills which were shattered with her performance in the dreadful Teaching Ms.Tingle.  All in all I give Pumpkin 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Too Something","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's too funny to be a drama. Too serious to be a comedy. Ricci is too hot to not even show any cleavage. And Sam Ball's face is too big to be sexy. He looks like the offspring of Cary Elwes and Bruce Campbell's chin. Not that that's such a bad thing ... at least he inherited some acting ability. Overall, the movie was entertaining. Rooting for the underdog is always fun. But, it was too corny to be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"Where was this movie going?","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie reminded me of Ghost World and My First Mister. It left me wondering what direction the movie was taking.Pumpkin begins as a razor-sharp, dark comedy criticizing the hierarchical system of life as seen through the Greek system. Yet it disgresses into a melodrama resembling an after school special. In the end, it takes itself too seriously and only hints at the satire it alluded to at the beginning of the movie.I wouldn't recommend this movie.  But it might be worth watching on a lazy Sunday afternoon.Score 6/10 "},{"Title":"An Anti-Greek Masterpiece","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a scathing indictment of the racist and elitist Greek system. Although I live and attend college in the South and experience its prejudice (disguised as hospitality) everyday, I didn't think that Greeks were quite so racially separated in California or the Northeast. It should be noted that, other than this film, I've never seen a movie that quite captured the essence of what it's like to be in college here and now.Christina Ricci's character falls in love with a challenged boy her age as she mentors challenged athletes for a charity her sorority engages in in competition for Sorority of the Year. What ensues destroys friendships, social networks, and indeed lives.The film does a thorough job of exposing the profound shallowness and cultural bankruptcy of the people who join fraternities and sororities, from the rushees to the current members to the parents who so clearly forced their children to join the same frats they did when they were in college. The A-O-Pi's in the movie drop the charity the minute they realize they've lost the S.O.Y. contest. During rush, the Filipina with Caucasian features and the African American girl are prized pledges for their money and diversity-instilling presence.This film is a wake-up call to everyone who's in a Greek Organization they are being inculcated with racist, classist, and homophobic ideologies, and would probably do themselves a favor by walking out and getting in the real world, where working with people of color and people with disabilities and others with differences from the norm is a big reality. This film should probably be required viewing for all entering Freshmen at state universities across the nation. Though the stylistic roughness is attributable to the fact that Pumpkin is a  first film for the two directors, I believe these two have large shoes to fill in the tradition of David Lynch, Solondz, and the Marx Bros.10/10 "}{"Title":"Dark, twisted, shining saddness.","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to think while watching this. So much of the parody was over the top, while so much more was on the nose. Not once did I feel like it poked fun at the challenged but the stabs at the elitist sorority types were all over the board with validity vs. parody.For the first half of the movie I laughed a lot and was shocked a lot by things that were going on. The second half was all about Carolyn's introspective wanderings. Was she supposed to change? Did she really screw everything up? Did it matter? Was the situation with Pumpkin actually happening?I already know I'm the goofy type of guy who cries at the end of tragically happy movies and doesn't at sad movies... so even with some of the absurd things that happen and are said and protrayed, I did find myself choked up a bit at the end... which if you DO pay attention, you'll see it's making a look back at us... there's still a question.Oh how interesting life must be for poor little rich girls... especially when reality hits them. 8/10 "},{"Title":"perfect","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i never wanted this film to end.  christina ricci and dominique swain pull off the best parody of sorority life i have ever seen in a movie. the soundtrack was lovely, with an interesting use of songs with lyrics which narrate the action of the movie.  usually this is a huge no-no, but somehow im pumpkin it works (belle and sebastian's track star plays for instance, when the kids training for the challenge games are getting back on the short bus, or emiliana torrini's if you go away as carolyn leaves everyone behind.) also, the similarity to the requiem for a dream soundtrack in this, a dark comedy, had me in hysterics.  hilarious, charming, lovely in all aspects. go see pumpkin ya numbskull. "},{"Title":"CrazyTouching","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie very much, especially coming from a college that prides itself on a vibrant and preppy (redundant?) frat life.  The plot is never very difficult to follow, and the movie veers into excess sentimentality at times; however I think this bordering on the absurd was all part of the plan.  This constant jumping between extremely comic and touching moments made the movie enjoyable and justified its length.  However the end lead me to believe that the film-makers did not know how to end this story... a general lack of finality to all the social questions upon which it touches. If you are into zany humor, or more importantly, empathize with those who are stuck within their own situations, you will likely enjoy this film.  "},{"Title":"Laugh while you cry","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Laughter is always best when it comes as your only alternative to crying. Pumpkin is the deepest, shallowest, funniest, and saddest movie I've seen in a long time.  It even manages to make fun of itself as it knocks your socks off.  I've seen a lot of good movies, but I don't hesitate to rate Pumpkin as one of the best.If you like dark humor that does not pull its punches, you really need to go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Feel-good movie of the year!","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just saw Pumpkin last night at a promotional viewing.  I like Christina Ricci and was excited about seeing a new film.  I loved it.  I wasn't sure for a while during the movie what my final opinion would be.  I think that the ending definitely made it for me.  I happen to like those types of endings.  I practically fell in love with Pumpkin myself.  I actually woke up thinking about the movie this morning.  It's one of those films that you keep thinking about afterwards and though it may sound cheesy, it did leave me with a warm and fuzzy feeling.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone who likes Ricci or the movie Heathers. "},{"Title":"Not really sure what it was trying to be.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie last summer in 2001 at a screening. The first half starts off funny enough like the previous reviewer said. Swain also has some really funny moments in the movie. The second half though just goes way to over the top for me. What started out as satire in the first half turns into a weird overblown farce. I believe two different directors worked on this picture and it shows. I don't agree with the previous reviewer either that the film doesn't make fun of the handicap. It was doing that until the horrible near ending of the movie where a special olympic event goes on. It meant to go for cheap laughs but to me ended up looking tasteless and way unfunny.  I have no way of explaining how ridiculous second half of the movie without mentioning this scene soSPOILER!!!!!!!!!!!!!A guy drive off a cliff, the car blows up in mid air, and you later see him without a scratch but he will never walk again.Then the movie just gets worse from there. Maybe they made some changes since I last saw it. "},{"Title":"Pumpkin is a hysterical satire","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin is a special film that isn't afraid to take chances.It has some hysterical moments that truly skewer college life and social hierarchies.Amongst the divine comedy is a great human story.The performances are wonderful especially Christina Ricci as Carolyn(looking the best ever as a blonde) and Marisa Coughlan as the head of the sorority Julie.Coughlan takes her character and sinks her teeth into it showing us the obsessive shallow behavior to the utmost extreme with the best comedic and realistic capabilities I have ever seen. She makes a fabulous villain. Sam Ball as Kent also goes for comedic gold. Coughlan and Ball should have there own spin off film.Brenda Blethyn is funny and perfectly conflicted with the relationship that her challenged son Pumpkin  develops with Carolyn. The directors consistantly balance a wonderful comedic tone that does not poke fun of the mentally or physically challenged people yet leaves you feeling for them as regular people. Pumpkin the film is poignant and a laugh out loud riot. A must see. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was looking for something to watch on TV last night because there was nothing on and I turned the channel where Pumpkin was showing.I was bored at first but I got engaged within the last 10 minutes.Carolyn, a sorority girl decides to help disabled athletes for an sporting event to get the title of Sorrority of the year.She is horrified at first when she pairs up with Pumpkin but once she gets to know Pumpkin she sees this genuine person who actually has feelings.She thinks that Pumpkin is more genuine than every one that sh knows.This movie actually taught me that mentally challenged people can go out with anyone.Much to everyones dismay Carolyn becomes an outcast for going out with a disabled man.When she has sex with Pumpkin and Pumpkin's mother finds out - Carolyns life goes down the drain.After much persuading from people from her college she goes back to the college and her life goes downhill.Pumpkin and Kent have a massive fight which leads Kent to a freak accident because he was so upset.This changed Kent's ways and he turns out to be caring person.In the end Carolyn ends up with Pumpkin.I really liked this movie and would give it 10 stars because it moved me in a way "},{"Title":"For the metaphorically challenged","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I did not expect anything less of Christina. It's a beautiful movie. You can definitely see irony coming from the characters and the director's perspective from the beginning. It's not meant to be a literal love story between a princess and a retard, but a metaphor about an age-old problem facing us. No, it's not as romantic and believable as Titanic or as brutal about society as Cry Baby was, but that's the whole point of the movie  not being perfect. Nothing is ever just black or just white, which is why this story always kind of makes you wonder and shift between 'Are they for real?' and 'That's such a good point!'. I think we are so used to receiving one clear and obvious message from a movie that when something that makes you hesitate comes along it inevitably gets pushed down. I found this movie terribly refreshing from that point of view.If it weren't for the contradictory happy ending, I would definitely rate it as one of the best movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Make up your mind.","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have mixed feelings for this movie. I don't know, this movie is weird, funny, interesting, sad, it has a criticism for society and people in general, etc. The movie isn't all about the Pumpkin character; it focuses on the selfish Caroline and how she believes the world is at her feet. She has the perfect life friends, money, a family, beauty, she's popular, she has a handsome boyfriend, etc. She's perfect. But her perfect life makes her imperfect. I mean, she believes she can change things in other people's life just because it's her. At some point in the movie she believe she's Cupid , then she believes she can understand REAL pain (not her kind of pain which consists of not getting what she wants in life), and also she believes Pumpkin is suffering a lot while he is happy even with his condition. But the then movie takes a twist and demonstrates how Caroline has changed and finally has understood about people's feelings. Tragic events were necessary for her to become mature. But also, people had to experience terrible situations in order for her to be finally on her two feet (Kent's accident, having sex with Pumpkin, etc.).Her true feelings are really weird... at first she has repulsion for Pumpkin, but then she has symphaty for them which she confuses with compassion. Then she falls in love with him and finally, she has sex with him. What was that all about? I mean, I understand she was confused but changing drastically your feelings and preferences is not normal...something that leads me to believe that she had some kind of sickness that consists of being attracted physically and emotionally for people with special capacities (such as Pumpkin).So in the ending the things get more confusing... she still gets what she wants at other people's cost. Now Kent is invalid, Pumpkin is depressed because of her absence, the sorority house bitches lost their competition, etc. So maybe I didn't get the whole point of the move but that's what it makes it a great viewing experience. The movie throws you many situations for you to make your own conclusion. It also displays some socially incorrect behaviors and also shows displays of humanity and kindness. At some points I thought this was cheap exploitation and mockery for people like Pumpkin. Then I changed my mind and thought this was a dark comedy for teens. Then I believed it was a movie to display how disturbed a rich girl can be... The truth is that I enjoyed the whole movie and after it's ending, I came to the conclusion that you just have to make your interpretation of the movie. So I can say that Pumpkin is a movie that makes a critic against society and how it treats people like Pumpkin, but also demonstrates how this people are happy even with their situation. Also I came up with the conclusion that the movie tries to exploit the Caroline character. It's all about her and her development. Which I believe it's a very interesting, dark character.Christina Ricci's performance is simply great, she's at her best in this one. She can be tender, naive, bitchy, but also can demonstrate she is in pain, or that she can be blinded by love or confusion. Pumpkin was a great character and the actor who portrayed him was also at his best. The rest of the cast is okay. The direction is simple but fast paced. Pumpkin is a visually stunning and attractive movie. The soundtrack is perfect for the events. You can't get a better soundtrack in my opinion. The technical aspects of the movie should be treated apart as this movie focuses on the plot development instead. "}{"Title":"The haunting song from 'Pumpkin'","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Someone mentioned that they liked the haunting song in Pumpkin. Actually this is an older song, French, I think. I remember it from as far back as the 70's. If You Go Away was just covered by a newer artist for this odd movie. It made the movie even bleaker, if that's possible. I love Christina Ricci, but this movie didn't do much for her career, except maybe put a smile on John Water's face, and add a bit of $$ to her bank account. Brenda Blethyn is usually so good, but even she overacted in this one. I suppose that is the director's fault. Oh well, I had a free rental...so it cost nothing but a little time. I was amazed at Ricci's perfect blonde flip. Very 60's. The only blonde in a brunette sorority. She was the blonde sheep. In a movie about challenged vs. unchallenged persons, I realized that by the end, I had changed my mind about who was challenged and who was regular. Death to the sororities! "},{"Title":"Was this movie a goof?","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was so bad, it's great. I laughed so hard at the part when the guy drove that old Lincoln over the cliff.. I almost wet my pants. If you want to get a bunch of people together, and goof on a movie, this is the one. There are all the stereotypical roles like Carolyn's rich parents, Pumpkin's over protective mother, the mean sorority girls, the snobby sorority girls, the jock boyfriend, and more. There is also trite dialogue, horrible acting, scenes that don't make any sense, and a predictable ending. Put all this together, and you get a wonderful train wreck of a movie. The only sad note to this was that Sundance Film Festival nominated this drama for the Grand Jury prize. I don't know if I can take them seriously after reading that. "},{"Title":" ill Legally Blonde","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Interesting, this is the lowest rating that I have ever given a film that I actually enjoyed watching; I genuinely liked the characters.The featured sorority in Pumpkin is referred to as AOPi, which is the abbreviation of an actual national sorority-Alpha Omicron Pi. But in the movie Omega is substituted for Omicron. This little detail pretty much sums up this little film. Pumpkin ALMOST crosses the legal, politically correct, and taboo topic line many times but always stops short. Unable to decide if it wants to be a satire, a political commentary, or a serious message movie it waffles back and forth. All this is very frustrating plus it's never a good idea to flaunt where you could have gone had you not gutlessly backed off.The result is far less satisfying than if the screenwriter had just maintained a consistent direction. For example, the satire elements actually work pretty well. The visual imagery of films is spoofed as sorority girl Ricci's first bump on the road of life is followed by a montage of imperfection-rats, decaying garbage, a dead bird, etc. which have always been there but which she is just seeing for the first time. Then there are the repeated condescending references to the Chinese sorority sister. And Ricci's attempted suicide using the entire contents of the medicine cabinet, including contact lens solution and Pepto-bismol. Good bits that let you know this thing is being played for laughs but far too isolated to turn the movie into a good satire or to even convince you that it is a satire.Toward the end you begin to wonder where they can go with this thing. Which they must have wondered too because the last 30 minutes seems thoughtless tacked on to provide some kind resolution for a direct-to-video release that would get back at least some of the production costs. Actually this thing had a theatrical release but was pulled after a few weeks when it failed to generate much interest. It did about $300,000 at the box office and I am not leaving off any zeros.Christina Ricci fans probably should check this out. She plays the same sorority airhead as Reese Witherspoon did in Legally Blonde and Witherspoon's acting is pretty sorry by comparison. Actually most of the execution is good and Marisa Coughlin is ravishing as the sorority president who throws one of the best hissy fits in film history. Four years after staring in Girl, Dominique Swain has a moderate size part as Ricci's roommate. Appearance-wise those four years were not kind. If you have always wondered what it would be like to combine elements of Rainman, Lucas, and Breaking Away into the same movie, Pumpkin shows you why that would be a bad idea. "},{"Title":"Very moving","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just like it's title this film is a little different. The fact that Christina Ricci is cast as the 'Perfect Princess' living the perfect life is your first clue that 'Pumpkin' is not your average College flick.Of course the message this film contains has been done before, namely that of treating others who are different as you would want to be treated yourself. What hasn't been done before is to articulate this ideal in such a quirky fashion.I've never seen anything quite like 'Pumpkin' before and I doubt I will again. "},{"Title":"Really interesting, and very funny, a quirky gem.","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Christina Ricci has been in many interesting, quirky, movies and this one was no exception. It seemed to start out as a sort-of bad teen-age formula movie, but became increasingly engaging, and odd, as the plot progressed. I started laughing about a quarter of the way through and then never stopped. I found the movie to be a just delightful mix of tender moments (helped by Ricci being so incredibly sexy), and subtle but razor-wit humor. Listen to the music if you start to take the movie to seriously, and you will see what I mean. I would guess that only about ten percent of the viewers of this movie will figure out that it is intended to be quite funny -- which it is -- but for those ten percent it is a rare treat, walking the fine line between not quite knowing if the director is serious, and getting that he is seriously satirical. And, I also bet that the other ninety percent will leave satisfied too, albeit a little puzzled. Besides being really humorous, this creative movie has a good heart. And, no cheap laughs! Watching it was really time well spent, and I look forward to watching it again. Recommended. Christina, you cook! "},{"Title":"pumpkin soup","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin is a topsy turvey affair; it's not quite cleaver enough to paint the pitch black, but smart enough to avoid any schmaltz. Ricci is earnest but miscast in this role, and whilst i can understand her presence in this unusual film i just don't buy her as a mini WASP. The rest of her supporting cast are however perfectly cast and all obviously enjoy themselves in their respective roles, esp. the actor who plays Kent.The movies time sequence entirely goes out the window in the last half hour however it's also towards the end of the flick that a camp John Water's sensibility seeps in and i can help but think the whole movie would have benefited if this had occurred from the opening sequence.  "},{"Title":"Well-Intentioned but Ultimately Hokey","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The theme of non-conformity can be a cliché in its own right, as this ham-fisted movie aptly demonstrates. Pumpkin tries hard to be Heathers by way of Ghost World, but it lacks the spirit and savvy of those films. Instead, it's a latecomer that adds nothing new or insightful to what has essentially become its own genre the indie film about beautiful misfits. Christina Ricci is sort of a Hollywood-manufactured mainstay of quirky roles. Unfortunately, her acting just doesn't reach the depth required to make Carolyn believable as a true outsider.Pumpkin himself functions more as a plot device than a character. We don't learn enough about Pumpkin as a person; all we really know about him is his disability, and apparently it is this trait alone that has such a profound effect on Carolyn.The movie's central ideas wind up seeming forced and over-the-top. The premise is sweet in concept, but soulless in execution.  "},{"Title":"Very touching","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first I thought that this film was some kind of Legally Blonde copy. I was so wrong. In fact, this is such a touching and soul searching film that I think anyone should see it.Though the story may be predictable, and yes, there are times when some actors are overacting, but the essence of this film is in its morality and soul. The message in this film is a very stern, and yet it is presented in a hilarious manner. There are so many times I laughed out loud. Also, the events are presented in a way that would provoke the viewer's feelings. The ignorance and overprotective mother, the sorority girls who would do anything just to win, how Christina sees only negative things, how Pumpkin would strive because he found inspiration from Christina etc.This film is about acceptance. How to accept and appreciate the good qualities of someone who is different from the norm. It is also about the inner beauty. As one of the lines says,  Suffering makes you beautiful. I cannot agree more on this when I was watching the film. It is the acceptance and support for each other that enables us to appreciate each others. Though this, the world will become a much better place.There are so many scenes where one would stop and think 'oh his/her behaviour is so disgusting' and then the viewer would also ponder 'are there times that I am like that too?'. For me , I think this film is almost a soul searching experience. Not just an ordinary film watching experience. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin (2003)Pumpkin is one of those independent-like films that are different from other movies, but nonetheless enjoyable. Christina Ricca stars as Carolyn McDuffy, a popular California sorority girl with the perfect boyfriend, perfect rommate, and perfect life. All of that changes when she ends up helping mentally challenged men with sports as a charity activity for a sorority competition, and she meets Pumpkin (Hank Harris), her new sports mentor. Carolyn is touched by Pumpkin, and she begins to fall in love with him. Despite the disapprovement of her sorority sisters and many other people in her life, Carolyn finds her true self and begins a journey from a popular sorority girl to an ostroscized outcast. Pumpkin pleases you nonetheless as it takes you through many funny moments, tough moments, and sad moments. This is a great movie with a great message. I give Pumpkin an 8/10. "},{"Title":"This movie is horrible.","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is horrible! I was really rather amazed, being a bit of a Christina Ricci fan. But I really can't recommend it to anyone. I couldn't figure out if it wanted to be a spoof and went terribly wrong (I kind of hope), or if they really meant for it to be agonizingly painful to watch. It was painful, all the way through. I got to the point that I just had to skip forward to see if the funny part would be later. It wasn't. All I can think is that the filmmakers intended to make another Pecker but failed miserably. Please don't waste your time with this movie. Rent Pecker instead and really laugh. "}{"Title":"Is this a joke?","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, I like to think myself an open minded individual, capable of finding humor in things others might find tasteless or even downright repugnant. But I guess I was a little surprised by this flick.I'll do my best not to give anything away here the first 40 minutes I found entertaining and downright creative. After that though...it took something of a downward spiral.I got the feeling several times in this film, that when the writers reached a crossroads as to where the plot should turn next, they just said, F*ck it. What's the most outlandish thing we could do? Well, what this resulted in was a crappy, discontinuous film with a horrible, horrible ending.This film had some potential to begin with, but ultimately I wouldn't waste your time with this one. A movie with a bad ending like this one is kind of like trying Pepsi One The concept is intriguing, and at first it doesn't seem half-bad. But the horrible aftertaste left in its wake ultimately doesn't make it worth trying in the first place. Wow! How's that for a simile? 4/10Go Sun Devils! "},{"Title":"This Movie was Awesome With a Capital T","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I suppose the comments below contain some sort of spoiler.All those people who don't like this movie are just racist againstcrippled retarded people.  Either that or they are very sexuallyattracted (or at least curious) about crippled retarded people andthey were disturbed by the almost uncontrollable arousal thatwashed over their loins every time that luscious Pumpkin wheeledhis way on screen.  It's about time someone made such a bold film, unafraid to tacklean important issue and a situation which is becoming more andmore common each year.  Those of you that think the mentallychallenged should not be allowed romantic involvement with perkysorority girls are no better than segregationists.  This is Americaand we don't tolerate that kind of thinking in some states.By the way, did anyone else notice that Christina Ricci was verycold for most of this movie? "},{"Title":"Slyly staged romantic comedy blurring the line between bourgeois behavior and metal retardation.","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This social satire has been conveniently staged as a youth picture, but will offer little to adolescent viewers; all part of it's charm.  The style of the film pays homage to great melodramas of the fifties directed by the likes of Vincent Minnelli and Douglas Sirk (much in the same way that FAR FROM HEAVEN did).  While the deadpan delivery might be a little less subtle than it needs to be, it all still works, right down to the exaggerated scoring by John Ottmann.  It's also one of the few films with a song track that's appropriate, instead of being an excuse to sell a pop recording.  This one delivers as polite an indictment of suburban values as you're likely to see for a while.  It's just as good as HEATHERS.   "},{"Title":"Harold and Maude meet Animal House.","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harold And Maude and throw in a little Animal House and you've got some idea what Pumpkin is....silly, funny, quirky in a major way, and this movie plays all over the screen. Too bad they didn't make it a musical, as well. Yet, Pumpkin makes you think, even though, as a film, Pumpkin is way way out there. It's way way out there as a story, too. Pumpkin is one of the oddest films I've ever seen and if odd doesn't scare you, you should check it out. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming, Funny And Just Great","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin is about a happy, perky and beautiful sorority girl named Carolyn McDuffy(Christina Ricci). Carolyn is perfect, she has everything anyone could ask for. A loving home full of loving sorority sisters, wonderful grades, beauty and a boyfriend Kent(Samuel Ball). Her sorority team has decided that they should have a charity where they help mentally challenged athletes. Once they arrive, Carolyn gets paired up with pumpkin(Hank Harris) At first she can't stand him but slowly she starts liking him and then she realizes that she's falling in love with him. They could have a wonderful relationship, but nobody appreciates Carolyn and Pumpkin as a couple, especially the sorority leader Julie(Marisa Coughlan). Now they will do anything to tear apart Carolyn's and Pumpkin's relationship even if it means ruining both of their lives. This is a beautiful movie, it's heartwarming, funny and just great. Christina Ricci is so beautiful and does a great job along with Hank Harris. I would give Pumpkin 10/10 "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Straining self-satisfied irony to its limits, this uncourageous, smug and exceedingly amusing movie belongs in the high pantheon along with Plan 9 and other very, very bad films.The only thing offensive about this transgressive movie is the filmmakers' attitude, that if you find 'Pumpkin' a turgid mixture of satire and melodrama, then you didn't get the joke. I'll admit freely that I wasn't sure when I was supposed to laugh and when to be moved; you could read this as a brave commingling of comedy and pathos, or as the bungling of a group of filmmakers who, in their genre-bending, learned more from Ed Wood than Almodovar.When a movie is supposed to be confusing and laughable, it gives us the worst of both worlds. The comedy is sabotaged by the ham-handed drama, and the ham-handed drama is stripped of any emotional weight. I was reminded of the terrible Bruce Willis comedy-drama, 'The Story of Us,' which also teetered between chuckles and high drama.However, I have a suspicion that 'Pumpkin' wasn't intended to be bad, or simply a joke on its audience. I do believe that it was intended to move us, and that it fails so miserably is a testament to the complacency and lack of talent of its makers.As a final note the fact that 'Pumpkin' polarizes and confuses people is not a sign of its daring. Yes, daring films, like 'Eraserhead' and 'Fight Club' evoke strong and ambiguous reactions. But so does 'I Spit on Your Grave,' and no one is arguing for the boldness of the latter. "},{"Title":"They warned me not to waste my time, but I wouldn't listen ...","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Friends warned me that this one wasn't worth seeing.  But I thought I'd show 'em.  Especially after watching the first 20 minutes or so, I was preparing my you don't know what you're talking about speech.  I so much wanted to find the value in this film that was right there below the surface, where only the smart people care to look.  But there just isn't anything there.This film tries to be thought-provoking and enlightening, but in my final analysis it is just as bad as any brain-dead teenage moron-o-fest. Retarded people are people just like you and me?  Yeah, yeah, yeah ... I know that and I don't need a ridiculously earnest film to tell me so.  And if you're going to make a ridiculously earnest film about the Noble Retarded Man (who I am sure is JUST as noble as the Noble American Indian and the Noble Black Guy) then at least hire real handicapped people to show up on screen. All I saw were a bunch of actors trying lamely to walk and move about like they imagined retarded people should be.  That alone is offensive enough.My final thought  I just watched Death To Smoochy and Pumpkin back-to-back and after doing so I can't decide which was the bigger waste of time.  Does that tell you how bad of a movie this was?I'm not your friend, but I'm warning you  This one isn't worth seeing. "},{"Title":"My Mom told me if you can't say something nice, don't...","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  But seriously Folks...There were a couple of brief comedic moments, but in general, this was a waste of talent and cellulose. Oscar, someone said? Maybe for the cinematography, but this movie is right up there with Ishtar on my bottom feeder list. Go paint the kitchen, or wash the garage for more stimulation than you will get watching this overwrought piece of cow-pie. That's the extent of emotion that I experienced watching this accident leaving the scene. I kept wishing I had learned how to darn socks for fun and profit when I was younger, so I might have accomplished something constructive while viewing this moo-vie. I did give the movie a good solid 3, but more out of sympathy than anything else.  "},{"Title":"Finally a Film That is Truly Obscene","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a sincere work of art, sick as they come, and funny as slipping on the proverbial banana peel. Pumpkin is as politically incorrect as a film can be, and actually says, In your face, to all special people and their families, and, especially, the Special Olympics. It is an outrage that it was even made. So why was this endeavor kept so quiet, and how did they get away with making this atrocity? The genius is in the fact that this film is the first of its kind to actually employ developmentally disabled people to write the screenplay, employ and train special people to play the parts of most of the characters, and hire a complete retard to direct it.  This is truly a special film. "},{"Title":"A mess of a film,offensive, last hour is the antithesis of the whole premise.5 out of 10.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"        For about an hour, Pumpkin is a witty satire that aptly depicts sorority life and so. cal suburbia, set to a great use of music and the wonderful Christina Ricci. For about the last hour of the film, it becomes a mess of all sorts it tries to be a heart-warming film with a core when from the start it had been a smart satire that was supposed to defy a soppy romantic ending with disgusting cliches.     The writers of the film clearly have no grasp on how to make  a cohesive story. With in the course of two hours (or however long and drawn-out this film was)virtually all the characters were completely inconsistent with what their character was supposed to be. The boyfriend whom at the start seems to have his head on his shoulders in comparison with Caroline, is then abruptly shifted to be the jerk and back again. Pumpkin's mother at first was portrayed as a caring mom who had done a great deal to help and encourage Pumpkin. By the end of this mess she is portrayed as heartless and misunderstanding. The scenes of the special games were completely offensive and were obviously used for cheap laughs.      Also the fact that the filmmakers do not show the love scene between Pumpkin and Caroline but they choose to show Kent having sex shows that they could not poignantly portray a real romance between the two characters and that the story was all based on improbable whim and unlikelihood.         The sad part about the last half of the film is that the very people it satirizes would love the audience-friendly ending. The mushy and implausible conclusion would have sorority girls swooning like no other. "}{"Title":"How a sorority queen fell back on earth, in the arms of an outcast and unexpected prince.","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What is great about this movie is the tone the director has been able to find, flirting with grotesque horror and pure beauty, lyricism and Sinicism, humor and despair. It's disconcerting, but the originality and the growing emotional charge take the viewer along a great fall into grace. The opening is set on a campus designed to look like a 50's nightmare, with inconsistent Barbie dolls and square faced Ken bachelors. In this futile world, the arrival of disabled athletes who are there to be trained by sorority members on their charity time has the effect of war pictures in a Disney movie. It's a definite wake-up call for one of the Barbie dolls, played by the excellent Christina Ricci, and the start of a series of misunderstandings and moments of grace. Both her character and the one of the challenged boy seem to come out of their bubble to fall into each other's arms, her because she needs to find truth in this world that is new to her eyes, and him to persuade himself that he is not dreaming awake. The story telling then finds its way through awful situations as the society points at the two lovers, and funny and spirited black humor has the weak ones take their revenge on the beautiful people. Marilyn Manson would love it! "},{"Title":"Shallow HALle","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think this movie is a joke! If you're not handicapped, this movie is probably a full-blown comedy. Speaking as a handicapped person myself, this movie made me really upset. There is no way in hell you are going to get me to believe that a girl whose probably is about as superficial as a model, is going to have a sudden change of heart and start liking this dude. Girls like her have a history of playing with handicapped people's feelings and just not giving a s**t. All of you know as well as I do, that it is EXTREMELY rare for a handicapped person to find somebody that is truly, honest-to-God willing to have a meaningful girlfriend/boyfriend relationship with them. What's more, they didn't even use a real disabled person and I bet Christina Ricci wouldn't have agreed to do this role if they did cast a real disabled person. So you know I'm right. I would like to talk about this some more so hit me back. "},{"Title":"Bad Ass","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have never seen a better farce in my life!  The director makes fun of teen dramas, after school specials, spoiled college kids while delivering a very powerful message.  I loved this movie and would see it again.  PS I go to USC and the movie is taped there. "},{"Title":"This is one of the funniest films I've ever seen.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film at a screening recently in New York City and it's one of the funniest films I've ever seen.  From start to finish, the directors keep you completely aware of what they're doing.  Christina Ricci is the perfect odd but totally appropriate casting choice as the sorority girl who falls in love with the retarded boy.  What's so great about the movie is that it not only satirizes what's going on in the story, but it also satirizes all the movies that have ever tried to tell a story about two characters who were not meant for each other.  I don't think I've ever seen anything like it. I have to admit that the friend who took me didn't quite get it - - but he's stupid (unfortunately, he writes for a major magazine).  It's going to take some smart people out there to turn this film into a hit, but it sure deserves to be one. It's so unlike the major dreck that is served up to us every weekend.  Just be prepared for something you've never seen. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow, this movie really surprised me. I found it on VHS for a buck. I figured it would be some cheesy movie about a cheerleader or some adolescent sorority flick, but for a dollar I figured I couldn't go wrong. I'm sure glad I did, because I would have never seen it otherwise. Judging from the photo on the box (which is always a bad idea), this did not look like the type of movie I would ever be interested in.Since I didn't know anything about this movie, I have to admit I was 20 minutes into it before I realized it was a dark comedy. At that point, it just clicked, and was even better the second time around.For those of you who liked Harold and Maude or Being There (as I did), you will probably really like this. If you watch it at face value you may find it cheesy, or even insulting to your intelligence, which is what makes this movie so hilarious and cleverly ironic. It mocks what it is.That said, I don't think I need to outline the story, as many reviewers have already done that. All I really should say is the humor is really dry and dark, so beware. I especially enjoyed the way the story ridicules social conformity and addresses some of life tribulations, without being nauseating or PC. The actors (and director) were brilliant, and if you like modern alternate folk music, you'll love the soundtrack.The last time finished watching a movie and thought to myself, wow, what a surprise, that was really great, was the first time I saw Rushmore. This movie will definitely be added to my list of favorites. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just cannot see why some people say that this movie is bad, since it's clearly not. At first I thought it was just some kind of a another teen movie, but after watching it, I found it very sad and deep. I think that it wasn't a comedy at all, because too serious feelings where brought up. Christina Ricci is beautiful, but she also has that mystery around her. I first saw her in the Sleepy Hollow, which wasn't that good as I first thought it would be...but now after seeing this film, I kind of like Christina Ricci, i think she is different. Also Swain, who I first saw in Lolita makes some appearans. Anyway I think that the whole cast was greatly choosed. This film was greatly done. It makes you think... a lot. "},{"Title":"being in love shamelessly.","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i loved this movie so much. Seeing this movie made me cry. I really don't think its nice how everyone thinks that Caroline is some kind of monster just for being in love with a mentally disabled person. okay they might have brain damage or whatever but they can feel to and i believe everyone deserves to have love and love who they want. Who are any of these people to judge her for having a heart just because there all stupid does not mean they have a right to be rude about love. I agree that this movie is a great film and that once you watch it you will feel like even going out and being friends with a disabled person and that you want love because it can be one of the greatest things you will ever feel and i think thats hot.love yours truly also if you wanna get in contact with me my email is dakota_loves_it@hotmail.com "},{"Title":"Leave John Waters-ing to John Waters","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film just reeked of John Waters' influence in the script writing. But, whereas Waters' characters tend to take themselves seriously with an overtone of audacity if not hyperbole, these characters ran the gamut of serious to seriously unbelievable. **Possible Spoilers**Carolyn (Christina Ricci) falls for Special Olympics participant Pumpkin (Hank Harris) because of his inner beauty. Before that, she was the epitome of everything we hated about college sorority queen with the perfect hair, perfect friends, and a perfectly athletic frat house boyfriend (Sam Ball). With the right touch, this could be one big shocking satire. Instead, I found myself disturbed by what I was seeing. It never could decide what it wanted to be. It wasn't a farce, it wasn't a black comedy, it wasn't a drama, and it wasn't satire...yet, from scene to scene, it had elements of all of the above, making it very unbalanced.Being a huge Brenda Blethyn fan, I thought she was wonderful in her part...but, grossly underused. Hank Harris as Pumpkin was very believable, maybe too believable. Sam Ball as jilted boyfriend Kent, along with Dominique Swain, Marisa Coughlan, and Michelle Krusiec as Carolyn's snobby sorority sisters played their one note stereotypes so convincingly throughout that their changed attitudes toward the end of the film seemed forced and storybook. Kent's tragic accident provided his transformation, however this is one of the most laughable plot twists the story has. Melissa McCarthy's overweight Cici (an ill-fated love connection for Pumpkin early in the film) was perhaps the most interesting character in what turned out to be little more than a cameo role.My biggest problem was that of Ricci's Carolyn. She went back and forth between stereotype and full of depth...and it was a sloppy transition. In the end, it would have been a whole hell of a lot more interesting for her to give Pumpkin up, but, that wasn't the case.I would have loved to have seen where this film could have gone had John Waters been in charge...but, I guess we'll never know. He handled a similar situation of taboo couples in Hairspray brilliantly.Overall a weak 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Oil and water","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought it was just me until I read your viewer comments. I'm not alone. I believe if someone is going to put the energy into making a film, the least I can do is watch it. Pumpkin is not like anything I've ever seen. This film had to be scripted to be this thorough. It spoofed everyone including those who promote special Olympics. I was expecting a heartfelt love story. What I got was pulp-diction. If the object was to shake the status-quo, they did it at every level. So much so that I had to check IMDb to see if I was still on the same planet; in the same culture. If the object was to make a predictable, lovable film, well, we've all been had to the bone. If the idea was to strain the viewers brain between absurd and imaginable than this production company left no stone unturned. This film will probably die on the vine. Its disturbing and not fun. It tenderly reaches into your heartstrings with a few moments of believability. Then splashes iced absurdity everywhere. Mix Legally Blond with Animal House, Brians song,Mask and Love Story. Let the sound track play where ever it lands and you have pumpkin.  "},{"Title":"If you liked this movie, you won't like my opinion.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There was sooooooo much more that could have been done with this topic. Instead of sensitive characters, they used sappy Greek System Ken and Barbie. Christina Ricci was not at her best in this one...not even close. The music was even awful. I felt like I was on some sort of drug trip instead of caring about the characters. The only decent acting came from the guy who played Pumpkin. Everyone else was a cookie-cutter clone. This movie was a predictable piece of garbage. I just wanted to slap Caroline at the end when she thought that Kent was a good person. Hello! If it weren't for the accident, he would still be Joe Fraternity, and he would still be calling Pumpkin a retard. It doesn't get any worse than this.  "}{"Title":"Makes a better pie.","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film gives proof to the conviction that it is unwise to set self-satisfied superficial minds on the path to a broader awareness of others, prematurely, because they will merely confuse breadth for depth, assuming that proof of the one implies the other as well.  Here, the girl is about as superficial and self-absorbed as they come, until confronted with a semi-retarded and physically handicapped boy of her age named Pumpkin.  Others in her life, including one of her teachers, and eventually even her boyfriend, take her to task for having an empty mind, concerned with nothing more than her social status.  Not wanting to be thought of solely in such trivial terms, however, she imagines that she can discover something deeper in herself by reaching out in greater breadth, or, in other words, to the extent that she becomes more involved with Pumpkin, that means that she is also becoming a deeper and more caring person.Unfortunately, however, she merely replaces an obsession with social status by a compulsion with Pumpkin, like the alcoholic who becomes addicted to AA meetings, with the result that while her focus may have changed, her level of involvement remains equivalently superficial.  She can't get the depth through the breadth alone, but she doesn't understand that, which drives her fixation with Pumpkin to absurd extremes.  And indeed, this film never gets that point either, as it leads us to believe that she is actually developing a deeper and more meaningful character through her fascination with Pumpkin.  It might seem nice that a girl such as she could fall in love with a boy such as he, but this one trivializes the basis for a relationship in terms hardly favorable to either. "},{"Title":"Heathers meets John Waters","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kind of an odd little film, but then again, you knew that when you rented it. God Bless Christina Ricci, she is the true Indie Queen. She could be a huge movie star making the kind of garbage generally sent to Cameron Diaz and Jennifer Aniston. However, Ricci would prefer to be unique and we are all better for it. Pumpkin is a special young man with a somewhat overprotective mother. Caroline is a somewhat empty sorority girl, with a somewhat shallow mother. Well, Pumpkin and Caroline come together and it is true love. Well, true love is a funny thing, as is this movie. However, sometimes you have to ask, should I be laughing? Certainly dealing with mentally retarded characters, you have to be careful, perhaps it is PC run amok. I just liked the music and the tongue in cheek story lines. I liked the look and feel of the film as well. Perhaps it goes a little long and maybe it was not the most coherent edit, but I give it thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Interesting ideas but is hurt by unevenness","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For one thing the final frame of the film bothers me. I don't understand that scene and that doesn't sit well with me. This film had me liking it at times and threw off in dismay at other times. The film has a quirky tone and doesn't seem to know what it wants to accomplish. I just was thrown off by it's unevenness. It had it's moments but just missed the mark. I liked Ricci in her role but I just didn't buy the conclusion. "},{"Title":"Truly awful","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin could have been a ground breaking comedy but instead its simply a disaster.  It shifts in tone from camp to satire to social realism to teen sex comedy. When one of the characters goes off a cliff at the end, you just stare at the screen in dumbfounded, incredulous awe!  The final 30 minutes of the film are truly unbelievable.  Roger Ebert says it's black comedy; I call it bad writing and baldly stupid.The actors were truly baffled by this material. All the performances are forced and insincere (save the actor playing Pumpkin). It's clear they were embarrassed by the material and the poor direction.I found myself talking back to this movie; scolding it for going places it didn't need to go. Someday there will be a great movie about a handicapped and a regular person falling in love and defying convention.  This isn't it. "},{"Title":"Pumpkin-bashing","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh holy Jesus, this was quite possibly the worst movie ever made.  The highlight, of course, was the line, I have to leave behind the lamb chops. This was two hours of absolute viewer pain and suffering, far greater than that of the characters in the actual movie.  I wasted my time, I wasted my friend's time, and for the love of God, I wasted the cat's time, which is at a premium.  Save yourselves.  To sum it all up  what was Christina Ricci thinking, and who ever thought she could be blonde? "},{"Title":"Absolutely the worst film I have ever encountered.","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film ranks among the worst films that ever had the temerity to be foisted on an unsuspecting audience. To say the acting was one dimensional would be to be overly gracious...to say the directing was uneven would be overly complimentary. The film does have some great laughs, however, unintentional though they may be. After all, how often does one see the female lead, in a fit of depression, try to overdose on Pepto Bismol. If you want to watch a movie that is a demonstration of all things to avoid in film making, Pumpkin is for you. Otherwise avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"Rotten- Pick Another One!!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A snobbish and shallow sorority girl (is there any other kind in Movieland?) reluctantly goes along with the sorority plan to garner favor with the Greek Council (as in greek letter fraternities and sororities) by mentoring handicapped individuals competing in the local Special Olympics. Her dealings with the handicapped individual to whom she is assigned, a crippled and mentally retarded wheel chair athlete (his nickname of Pumpkin is the origin of the title) are supposed to be the life changing catalyst through which she sees the hollow existence she had previously led. That sounds OK for a Hallmark Afterschool Special, but is considerably less effective as the set up for a comedy- which this film purports to be. Pumpkin seems to start off as a satire, with Christina Ricci (appearing as a bleached blonde) presented as the most popular sister at her UCLA sorority, though no evidence of why this should be is given.  The rival sorority is shown as populated entirely by tall attractive blonde women. This is rather humorous, but it's also that last funny moment in the movie. Christina's boyfriend is the star tennis player of the school, and the envy of all, naturally.  At this point, he would have been shown to be a boorish fop (as all popular high school and college athletes must be in Movieland) but he is actually revealed to be more considerate than Christina, criticizing her for attempting to fix-up the wheelchair bound retarded boy (who cannot articulate well)with an overweight friend of hers for a day at the beach. The parts of the movie that should show Pumpkin to be a sensitive and caring individual (central to this plot) are virtually ignored.  The movie hits its lowest point when Christina sneaks into his room to spend the night with (and have sex) the cripple retarded boy.  (Imagine just for a moment if the sexes were reversed for this little plot twist- a fraternity boy having sex with a crippled retarded girl). The humor apparently is supposed to derive from the outrage of the sorority girl dropping her hunky jock fraternity boyfriend for an inappropriate person.  Humor at the expense of the handicapped is Adam Sandler's specialty, but at least he is up front about it. The movie is just too idiotic continue describing; a fistfight between the crippled retarded boy (miraculously now without his wheelchair) and the college athlete ending up with the humiliating defeat of the tennis star who outweighs him by at least 50 pounds; a spectacular mid-air car explosion and crash which leaves the tennis player wheelchair bound but somehow otherwise unscratched; and a relay race won by the erstwhile crippled boy at the climax of the Special Olympics.  The final joke seems to be that Christina comes to the realization that Pumpkin really is, after all, mentally retarded, with a final panicked look into the camera as the movie fades out. Hilarious.  This movie tries too hard to be clever and satirical and ends up instead a mismatched mess of banalities and moralizations.  In short, this pumpkin is rotten.  "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie, in my opinion is one of the worst I have ever seen.  The viewer has no idea how to respond.  Is this a drama?  Is it serious or is it supposed to be funny?  There was not a single part that I found humourous, just very rude.  There are even parts that make no sense.  I strongly recommend that viewers watch a different movie, save your money.  "},{"Title":"Ridiculous","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A FEW SPOILERS AHEAD - Be warned...This movie was ridiculous.  It appears as if some lucky college kid was handed the opportunity to write and direct a movie on a silver platter (maybe why he identifies so well with the greek system).It started out whimsical and over the top, full of garishness and hyperbole, but it ended up taking itself quite seriously. I wish it made up its mind.First, when Kent goes over the cliff in the car, the car explodes and falls hundreds of yards.  You assume he is burnt to a crisp and dead.  But no, there he is in the hospital, skin as pretty as it was before the accident. Huh?It was long, the scriptwriting was amateur at best, and i won't even comment on the dialogue.Anyway, be prepared to laugh - and not because its funny. "},{"Title":"Rubbish!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This could possible be the worst movie I have ever seen! I left the cinema feeling angry that I had just wasted my time on watching this drivel. Christina Ricci was totally annoying and I found myself finding everything she did was agravating!! I felt no joy in the outcome of the film. I had no love for either of the main characters and found there was no chemistry or flow to the movie! Dont watch this. You have been warned. "}{"Title":".  There is no movie rating system that can describe this film.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER----SPOILER----SPOILERPumpkin, a black humor movie directed at mindless college sorority life, uses disabled teenagers as the foil for the satire.  Carolyn McDuffy Christina Ricci, an antiseptically preserved bleached blond senior, hopes she and her sorority `sisters' will become the SOY sorority of the year for their good deeds and civic contribution.  As a symbol of socially responsible behavior, they coach physically handicapped teens for an Olympic competition.  Carolyn is paired with Pumpkin Romanoff Hank Harris, an aspiring discus thrower.  Pumpkin is totally inspired to compete and Carolyn learns that a mind is a terrible thing to waste as a result of their relationship.  Pumpkin is so politically incorrect that it makes Animal House 1979 look like Mother Theresa's autobiography.  This is either an incredibly bad training film for the U.S. Department of Human Services Americans with Disabilities or the result of a Hollywood hangover gone over the edge.  There is no movie rating system that can describe this film. Pumpkin is surreal and over exagerated to the point that one doesn't know whether to laugh, cry or to be outraged.  The redeeming value of the film is that, in its perverse way, it does make its point.  The point is you can't judge a book by its cover, beauty is only skin deep, and you've got to look beneath the surface.  Don't let slick one line movie reviewer quotes in the newspaper draw you into this film.   "},{"Title":"Impossible to type but still hard to forget.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Pumpkin' is about sorority girls and retarded boys, and what happens when one of the girls -- the Alpha Female, so to speak, Carolyn McDuffy, played by Christina Ricci, falls in love with the boy she is assigned to help, because he adores her and he is so simple and sincere. 'Pumpkin' is partly a satire of sel'-satisfied upperclass American girls, and it is being compared to 'Heathers,' which begins as a satire of such girls in a posh high school.However 'Heathers' is a much wittier movie than 'Pumpkin'--and it turns dark and apocalyptic at the end, which is a successful combination. Pumpkin's parts aren't as compatible. Half the time the movie is mocking sorority girls, and half the time it's celebrating the relationship between Carolyn and the challenged, but sweet, boy, Pumpkin (Hank Harris, a gifted physical actor with an expressive face who deserves at least as much credit as Ricci for whatever memorable qualities this oddly skewed movie achieves). Both 'Pumpkin' and Nicole Holofcener's 'Lovely and Amazing,' which is about a group of women in a family and a little girl, and which came out around the same time as 'Pumpkin,' belong to a class of new movies that could be called Todd Solondz Lite.These milder Solondz clones are edgy, bitter, satirical, disturbing &#x96; but a lot less so than 'Happiness' or 'Storytelling.' They come on at times as light romantic comedy, but then it becomes obvious that something is terribly wrong. In a way they only make sense by comparison with an extremist like Solondz. They switch around among genres and moods, ranging from the cynical to the passionately sincere. Sometimes they're fun, and sometimes they're distinctly not fun. All this works better in Pumpkin,' because of its unifying plot, which is half offbeat love story and half coming of age story, than it does in the directionless 'Lovely and Amazing.'Casting gives the movie edge because it's already a kick to see Adams Family girl Ricci playing a perfect blonde sorority sister. 'Lovely and Amazing' has no emotional core. Mostly it just seems disjointed and a bit depressing. It could be called Three Women and a Girl in Search of a Plot. Pumpkin has a very definite plot, an elaborate one, full of disasters narrowly evaded or somehow capitalized upon, a bit like something John Waters might cook up. (Brenda Blethyn performs admirably in both movies, by the way.)And more than funny or witty, 'Pumpkin' is moving. It's touching in a raw way how the retarded boy blossoms physically and emotionally because of his love of Carolyn, and her learning to appreciate this love makes Carolyn become a real person and shuck off her sorority girl persona. The movie is emotionally powerful despite all the mockery--it actually made me cry at the end--but it also seems confused. Sometimes being challenged is treated very tastefully, but there are also times when the retarded boys seem cartoonish, as does Carolyn's perfect tennis star boyfriend, Kent Woodlands (Samuel Ball), who goes back and forth between heroic good guy and comic cardboard stereotype. It seems obvious that with their contemporary sensibilities the filmmakers couldn't have allowed themselves the sincerity without the strong dose of cynicism and satire to frame it, but in old fashioned terms their emotions are all over the map at once. 'Pumpkin' isn't as amateurish-seeming and unnerving as Miguel Arteta's 'Chuck and Buck,' but I thought of that picture too. You desperately want to hate 'Chuck and Buck,' or at least I do, but you have to admit it has an original, disturbing premise -- the dense and utterly homely gay guy who tracks down and hounds the successful straight guy he played around with sexually when they were kids. Alone, these movies just leave you puzzled, but together 'Pumpkin' and 'Lovely and Amazing' and 'Chuck and Buck' all begin to make some kind of sense. They represent a new generation of filmmakers who don't really believe in irony any more because it's been so often thrust upon them and cheapened by Madison Avenue that it's lost all its attraction. But their minds are still full of irony &#x96; it's just out of kilter now. It's more like embarrassment, with a strong dose of alienation. These are the feelings they live with and seek to evoke. (A more unifed example and a fuller artistic success would be 'Ghost World.')This results in movies that are hard to pin down as to genre. A mixture of genres is fine--when it works. It doesn't quite work in most of these new movies. Is there any such thing as a pure comedy? Not nowadays, it seems. That wouldn't be cool. Anthony Abrams and Adam Larson Broder, who wrote and directed 'Pumpkin,' are young guys who instinctively bend genres. For some of us, it's hard to see how you can reconcile some of the elements in 'Pumpkin,' but you have to admit it moves into new territory. Solondz would have shown Pumpkin and Carolyn making love; Adams and Broder choose not to. That's what makes them Solondz Lite.UPDATE. Unfortunately, 'Pumpkin' tanked critically and commercially and Abrams and Broder haven't made any more movies. Both Roger Ebert and Jonathan Rosenbaum praised 'Pumpkin' and Rosenbaum has just rerun his review in 2010) and he pointed out that the filmmakers' play with believability and genre-bending was intentional; they called it genrefication. I can in fact rarely remember being jerked around and caught up short as effectively while watching a film as I am by 'Pumpkin.' It really makes us reconsider our social assumptions in very visceral terms. Maybe it's not so Lite after all. "},{"Title":"Inconsistent, overboard story diminishes fine performances in boisterous Pumpkin","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The eccentric pseudo-romantic comedy Pumpkin is a wild, twisting ride for the wrong reasons. Carolyn McDuffy (a blond Christina Ricci) is part of an overprivileged Southern California State University sorority that, simply for the shallow purpose of being named Sorority of the Year, sucks up to a Special Olympics-style charity they otherwise could care less about. As the two factions congregate for the first time, Carolyn encounters an enigmatic wheelchair-bound teenager (Hank Harris) known simply as Pumpkin. At first repulsed by his presence, she finds herself becoming increasingly attracted to his soul, his physical form notwithstanding, but their budding affinity alienates their trite friends and families. The energetic setup of the plot results in smart comedy, especially when Carolyn and Pumpkin first meet, but in screenwriter/co-director Adam Larson Broder's hectic script, the momentum comes to a halt in the second act, in which the film becomes a hodgepodge of forgettable dialogue, abrupt satire, and impertinent subplotting (a meaningless poetry class), all cast under a darker air. Though the acting is sensational &#150; deadpan-stare mistress Ricci winds up carrying the picture on the strength of her best role since the notorious Wednesday of the Addams Family movies, as she mugs her way through a heartfelt performance that at times results in awesome laughs while Harris portrays the eponymous handicapped youth with aplomb &#150; the strong supporting cast loses steam quickly (most notably the great Brenda Blethyn, who has little to do here as Pumpkin's overbearing alcoholic mother). In short, Pumpkin's most conspicuous flaw is that it suffers from an identity crisis. It's a continuous toss-up of whether it wants to be an earnest comedy regarding the evils of political correctness, or a violent live cartoon replete with exorbitant car crashes and silly fistfights, thus rendering any message of morality down for the count.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Risky film that is D.O.A.","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pumpkin  (starring Christina Ricci)  by Wink WilliamsChristina Ricci's name on the poster?  One please, I said as I approached the box office.  Her name alone was good enough for me.  One of the most talented and daring actors of her generation having appeared in and shone in both 'Buffalo 66' and 'Opposite of Sex,' among her many credits, Pumpkin appeared to be another risky choice.   Sadly, this one goes in the minus column. Christina plays Caroline, a perky, blonde, sorority girl with the plucky personality of a sparrow on acid.  We first see her in the films most successful sequence as she and her sisters perform a hula dance in front of the greek house during rush week.  Christina's character is the perkiest of the gals, no easy feet when they all make Sally Field and Mary Hart appear dour in comparison.  The gals plot to win sorority of the year and come up with a winning plan.  A charitable move that will move that will sway the judges in their favor.  They agree to train the competitors for the local Special Olympics. Ricci's Caroline is assigned to work with Pumpkin.  A wheelchair bound, listless male who's been labeled retarded.  She is frightened of him at first and fearful.  She shares her thoughts with her roommate, Jeanine, played by Dominique (Lolita, 1997) Swain.  Both agree that this isn't going to work and Jeanine drops out of the project.  Caroline continues and starts to see something real in Pumpkin and is touched by him.  He is very taken with her and clearly develops feelings for her.  Strangely, and much to her chagrin, Caroline comes to the realization that she has feelings for him. What will her perfect, snobbish parents say?  How will the cliquish, conformist girls of her sorority react?  What will the chipped beef boyfriend, frat type, perfect athlete do?  How could this happen to her?It sounds like an interesting premise but falls flat in every single way. Pumpkin is the most troubling of the characters.  His disabilities are treated like minor inconveniences that can be overcome.  Wheelchair?  He can and does learn to walk.  He even uses the motorized chair as a crutch in one scene, leaning against it as it moves forward using it to steady his balance.  Hello?  Has anyone in this film ever used a wheelchair or had problems walking?  The last thing you would use to steady your balance is a moving chair!  We see him standing wobbly for the first time and within days, he is able go climb in and out of windows and even run a relay race. Pleassssssssssse.  Caroline takes him to the beach in an attempt to fix him up with the perfect match.  A heavy set loner who contemplates dark thoughts.  She takes them to the beach and and the two girls get the motorized wheelchair out of the trunk and somehow manage to get it and Pumpkin to the shore.  A motorized wheelchair, none of which I have encountered are liftable by a human being or two, in the trunk?  A wheelchair of any kind on a sandy beach?  Did anyone do their homework here? The date is a disaster.  Caroline's friend is insulted and runs off. Caroline and her boyfriend, chipped beef, run after her and the three of them leave to take the angry friend home.  Pumpkin is left alone on the beach all day and retrieved later that night.  Let's not overemphasize how shallow  and callous these characters can be. The film follows the obvious plot of me and you against the world.  After hesitating and a little backtracking, Caroline realizes that love will indeed conquer all.  After much haggling, she dumps chipped beef, who in the movies most ludicrous sequence, takes off in tears and the film degenerates into high camp, painful hilarity.  The sorority girls are exposed as shallow, vain, surface creatures.  Big shock.  Everyone gets redeemed, the end. The one plus to this utter disaster is the sound track.  With a Bjork song in the mix and several other interesting tunes it is the films saving grace.Christina, I still love you.  Not all risks are successful ventures.  Keep trying!  "},{"Title":"How many cliches can be in one movie","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It has to be the worst movie I have ever seen.  The acting was horrible. It was contrived.  I cannot fathom how Ms. Ricci got involved with this horrid affair.  She is better than this.  It has no original merit whatsoever and I cannot believe I didn't walk out.   "},{"Title":"A Plotless and Shallow Barfbag of Caricatures","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  PUMPKIN is another patience-sucking exercise in preppie bashing that's way too juvenile to offer truthful insights or clever observations.The movie's not about sorority girls or the mentally handicapped. The filmmakers obviously didn't talk to any of those people.The movie could be about a couple of former high school nerds who can't understand why blonde chicks aren't constantly attached to their genitals, so they decided to make a movie with their buddies about how bitchy they all must be.Well, they missed the truth by a longshot. Ricci's lover is not handicapped--he acts like a fully cognizant loner, except with a limp. Ricci's character is surrounded by a catty Mother, snotty sorority sisters and the stuck-up jock boyfriend, all of whom are tired cliches that explain their behavior by spewing the filmmakers' naive assumptions (Mom tells Ricci to just forget about all her troubles because Yes, life is easy; Ricci claims she's Never experienced pain before her sex scandal with the handicapped boy).Ricci's emotional arc is smokescreen. The poor actress does her best to fill the spaces between her simplistic dialogue with tears, which only drowns us with melodrama.There's no plot. Most movies focus on one action for the heroine to complete. PUMPKIN keeps making crap up as it goes along. Is the film about winning the Challenged games? Ricci's sorority contest? Ricci's membership in the organization? When is it over? The action drags on and on, moving only if some cartoon unnaturally blames Ricci for something she obviously didn't do.PUMPKIN's filmmakers might claim this is all camp. They might say, We made everything this far-fetched on purpose, and we think it's hilarious.They would be incorrect. Their jabs don't poke at the truth. Every behavior is shrill and phony. Somebody like John Waters would go over-the-top and stay there with chaos and charisma. At least he'd sustain the flick with stunts. He would never bog the script down in fake lovesickness.I'm fed up with movies like this. You've seen it all in HEATHERS, JAWBREAKER, DROP DEAD GORGEOUS, BRING IT ON and more. I officially declare Preppie-Bashing Satires a DEAD FASHION.The problem is not Preppies. Naive Preppie Bashers are the ruling snobs in Hollywood, and it would be nice if they had some truthful insights for a change.  "},{"Title":"I saw this movie at Sundance","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was the biggest piece of crap I have ever seen!  I wanted to like this movie, I really wanted to like this movie.  I expected to laugh my silly little head off, but alas, I kept waiting and waiting for the movie to start. Ricci and Coppola (producer) what were you thinking.  Swain, well now we understand why you haven't had any major roles since Lolita.  TOO BAD! Sundance, Geoffrey Gillmore, I expect more from you guys than this. Just because Christina Ricci is in a movie that doesn't mean you HAVE to make it a SUNDANCE movie.   "},{"Title":"Wickedly funny college story with an unusual couple.","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some may be tempted to say this is a morality play, about how we are to accept those who are different. But the movie is done in such an over-the-top style, and all the characters are caricatures, that it really was made for entertainment and nothing else. Christina Ricci is Carolyn McDuffy, most popular sorority sister who dates the most popular student and star tennis player Kent (Samuel Ball). Even though Carolyn is fairly well adjusted, her sisters are as shallow as they come. They volunteer to coach some special athletes as a means to win best sorority. Hank Harris plays Pumpkin Romanoff, one of their special athletes, who gets assigned to Carolyn. Pumpkin immediately falls for Carolyn, but she tries to do her best to be a friend, and besides, she already has a boyfriend, the almost perfect Kent.An offbeat comedy, Ricci is especially good. In fact I could almost see Reese Witherspoon in that role. Or, Ricci could have played any of the Witherspoon comedy roles. SPOILERS. At some point Carolyn realizes that she is falling for the gentle Pumpkin, and Kent is jealous. Plus all the sorority sisters shun her because Pumpkin doesn't belong with their kind. Kent is distraught, drives his car off a cliff accidentally and it plunges down and explodes, an accident no one can survive, but Kent is only injured. At the end he is coaching the special kids from his wheelchair, Pumpkin is running the last leg of a relay, losing badly, when he sees Carloyn show up, energized he runs fast and wins for his team. Carolyn and Pumpkin walk off together. "},{"Title":"2nd Worst Movie Ever","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It wasn't quite as bad as 2001 a Space Travesty, but almost.  If it was supposed to be a black comedy, it failed.  If it was supposed to be a serious drama, it failed.  I didn't even know that they meant it to be a comedy until I watched the theatrical trailer on the DVD after the film.  It wasn't funny, it wasn't touching, it wasn't much.  It was a waste of 2 hours. "},{"Title":"I can't believe people liked this movie...","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe that people can call this film brilliant with a straight face.  Daring someone said?  It boggles the mind.I cannot think of a single redeeming feature for this film.  The characters were unbelievable, the story insipid, the resolution trite and predicatable...amazing.  It actually was so bad, I finally registered on imdb to leave comments.  I couldn't keep quiet.I've seen a lot of other comments from people that this movie was trying to make a statement.  I've read comments that the movie was a brilliant dark comedy.  I've heard people say it was a satire of the teen comedy genre...do you see a pattern?  Neither do I.  That's because this movie doesn't know WHAT it is trying to be!  There are a few half hearted attempts at humor (which were far from funny)  There were a few touching moments (which never worked in the slightest, since the characters were so one dimentional)A perfect example is the love story between Carolyn and Pumpkin.  First, she is digusted by him, then he SAYS HER NAME.  The next scene, she is in love with him.  Boom.  Like that.  Yeah, I can see that.I'm so frustrated with this movie.  Maybe that's what the director wanted. Maybe he wanted a reaction.   I suppose, if that's the case, he's gotten what he wanted out of me.  I just wish my disgust wasn't what he had been aiming for... "}{"Title":"Mainstream movie at its's worst...","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. When I watched it on the TV, I had to choose between this and awesome crime series Brigada. Since I have seen Brigada before, I decided to pay attention to Pumpkin.Well, I made a VERY wrong decision. Why is this movie so bad? First of all, it has all the cliches ever produced by Holywood, like good caring gril, disabled person with good soul, a son-of-a-b**ch-self-centred-crippled-hating-male-caucasian-friend and a fat-ugly-girl-who-has-strength-to-get-over-herself-and-try-to-be-happy.Thank God there were no rednecks whth shotguns and arab terrorists. The plot is ridiculous, and the cast is really bad. I believe Christina Ricci is the only one who does quite a good job, but since she is no great actress, the outcome is below average. This movie has no suddeen moves, no intrigue, no humor, no philosophical or political idea, and in genetal it is as shallow as Lord of the rings, for exmaple. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"You Can't Turn Pumpkins into Carriages","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie can't seem to decide whether it is a Comedy, a Romance, or one of those Life Altering Deep Drama type movies. It would be fine if it was all those things together at the same time, but throughout the movie it seems to change between. There are a few parts that will really make you laugh that is true, but the story mainly focuses on the romantic relationship between Caroline and Pumpkin. The romance in this movie is... well there is none. Caroline falls in love with Pumpkin through a montage. Then spends the next couple of scenes trying to admit to herself that she loves him, then the rest of the movie is this undertone of how Mentally Handicap people are people too.In the End I find the movie did not make any kind of impact on me negative or positiveBottom line If you want to watch it, watch it, but you're not missing anything. "},{"Title":"This stinks","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's beyond classification. so says Roger Ebert. I'll agree to that, Pumpkin is a messI do not see what is to like about this film which is over directed, amateurishly written, and childishly acted. It is muddled and unfocused, and denies brains, humour and heart. One minute it is sappy and plushy, and the next it is sour and sleazy. The sheer yuckiness of this movie is offencive. This pumpkin is rotten and it stinks.The first step to repairing the movie is to fire Christina Ricci and hire someone who can act. Ricci's performance is absolutely dreadful, Why did she not receive a golden raspberry award. The next step to repairing this film would be to give it some direction. The central premise concerns Ricci's character falling in love with a disabled boy who she is tutoring, and their relationship starts to screw up her life and her local reputation. Why couldn't this movie have been a strait forward romantic/comedy? Simplicity is often the best approach right. Instead the movie tries to integrate three or four subplots which lead absolutely nowhere, and in an attempt to bring all the connections together, Pumpkin takes forever to end.I laughed once, maybe twice and that was it. If this is supposed to be a comedy, where is the humour? There is nothing remotely funny about this movie, nor is there anything charming, romantic, or original about it. It is an overdone, artificial wreck of a motion picture that belongs in the trash. "},{"Title":"ridiculously bad","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the worst movie I have seen, and I'm a big movie buff. This is my first comment for movies, I felt obliged to write it. I have never seen anything worse than this. I mean, it is not just bad in a sense that it is boring, you can't finish watching it. It is so ridiculously bad, plot less and amateur that I had to watch and re-watch it. I highly recommend everyone to watch, just because it is so ridiculously bad. It starts off like one of those transformation movies - she is a shallow blond, who would be transformed by her experience with a mentally handicapped boy. That mentally handicapped boy falls in love with her, sleeps with her and K.O.'s her 6 foot plus boyfriend. The boyfriend, is so ashamed, goes on to drive off a 100 foot rock cliff, and survives, after his car explodes (!) in mid air. Not a scratch on him, not a burn mark, but he does break his back. Not to worry, he becomes the coach for the handicapped team in the end. This is so bad; you have to watch it to appreciate any other movie over this. "},{"Title":"very confused film...","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First off, I'll be honest I actually shut things down a half-hour into this steaming pile of a film, so I may have missed the life-altering payoff that was bound to happen at some point. Right? Whatever. The campy overacting and stilted delivery of the actors made me assume this was some sort of Waters-esquire satire, but then it would bash you over the head with honeydripping earnestness thus muddying the waters. Make up your mind, director guy. I'm all for complexity, but Pumpkin falls into the realm of the merely confusing. Christina Ricci -- whose performances I normally enjoy -- didn't do anything to help the situation either. Now, the problem may be that immediately prior to watching Pumpkin I had imbibed the intoxicating comic nectar that is Annie Hall; a tough act to follow, perhaps, but no excuse for the overwhelming wretchedness of Pumpkin. Clearly a product of our age. Trying to be edgy, but coming off as tasteless and -- worst of all -- boring. One last note mentioning this film in the same sentence as Harold and Maude is a truly unfortunate move. "},{"Title":"Quite disturbing... (possible spoilers)","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time yesterday.  I don't get what's so comical about this movie, seeing as it has been dubbed a dark comedy.  It was more disturbing than anything else.  But then, I shouldn't expect anything else from a movie starring Christina Ricci.  The movie is about a sorority.  Each girl is assigned to work with a mentally challenged athlete.  The movie centers around Carolyn, the most popular sorority girl, and Pumpkin, one of the challenged athletes.  Carolyn has a perfect life up until she meets Pumpkin.  She has an attractive tennis player boyfriend named Kent, but ends up falling in love with Pumpkin.  That's when her life begins spiraling out of control.  The movie was dark, all right, but I didn't get what was comical about it.  Was it when Carolyn got thrown out of the sorority because she slept with Pumpkin?  Was it the explosive argument Carolyn had an explosive argument with Kent because he lost the tennis match, followed by an ugly breakup so Carolyn could be with Pumpkin?  Was it when Kent got badly injured in a car accident after leaving the formal when he fought Pumpkin and was defeated?  (Quite embarrassing, and also a bit unrealistic.)  Fact is, there was nothing comical about this movie.  I know that the message of the movie was that mentally challenged people have feelings and can fall in love like everyone else, but this?  This was just too much and too disturbing.  If this movie comes on again, I'm flipping the channel. "},{"Title":"When Hollywood Takes It Too Far","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I understand perfectly that this movie was supposed to be a joke; a satirical look at college life. However, this movie was about as un-funny as they get. The plot was based on a serious situation, and the jokes were put in the wrong places. Growing up with a Psychologist mother contributed to the fact that I don't think any situation in any movie involving developmentally challenged people can be funny in any way.The movie became so ludicrous that it almost became offensive. Character development was nonexistent, and like the oh-so-many other moments and parts of the movie that were meant to be funny, it wasn't. For instance, someone trying to overdose isn't funny. The only funny moment in the movie is when Kent drives off the cliff, explodes in a giant fireball and landing causes a mushroom cloud and in the next scene he has no abrasions, bruises, lacerations, or burns. Perhaps the worst part that is meant to be funny, is when the West Side Story music for the rumble is playing as Pumpkin gets beaten up by Kent. Ha-ha-ha.The only worthwhile actor to watch was Hank Harris, as Pumpkin. If you have not seen this movie -- I advise you never to see it. As I have mentioned, it is in no way funny, and is so mind numbing and excessively long that the 'jokes' grow old immediately.One of the worst movies I've ever seen.  "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE EVER!!","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i always wanted to rent this movie. i was so excited when i finally rented it, i couldn't wait. i was sadly let down.... this movie above all sucked!! Christina Ricci is such a great actress and I adore her, but DAMN! What was she thinking? This movie made a crappy attempt at a really unique storyline. The plot seriously had potential. But then it just...got ruined. I was so disappointed when i saw this movie, I couldn't watch it anymore. what a waste of money. it's a shame, really because Christina Ricci is such a great actress. this just was a plain bad movie. ( tsk tskdo yourself a favor and do not rent this movie. "},{"Title":"Almost there but no cigar.","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why do people make movies that could be really good only to really mess them up.  6.0/10.0  Was this movie awful, no.  But don't throw things at me that make absolute zero sense just because you had a moment that you did not want to put on the cutting room floor.  The crash scene was so over the top I could not believe it.  The car explodes before impact and nobody dies?  What is this?  The ending with Ricci turning around after her intellectual conversation with pumpkin.  Was I to think she would now run back to her disabled boyfriend because she knew that pumpkin was not her intellectual equal?  She would have had to thrown out a line like, yes Sorority Sisters, he is much better in bed than you, to make the whole thing work out.  The fight scene with no bruises or blood.  Are you afraid I might get mad if a mentally retarded individual is beaten up by an intellectual superior?The Special People event was so real.  How many people have cheated at these kind of games?  You might not be happy if you knew the truth.  There is always one parent who is too much into competition than into participation.  I laughed my rear off but the movie just missed making me believe Ricci would stay with her new love.  Plus there needed to be a confrontation between her and her sorority sisters in the end.  Maybe something like, I've never had such a wonderful orgasm.  Something more than Ricci just walking away. Plus Pumpkin's mommy is not just going to let them walk away. I did enjoy Ricci's walk. "},{"Title":"Too long, to corny, not enough comedy.","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To me this movie seem to be a car accident, I couldn't stop watching. The plot was horrible and the movie way to long. Even though this was in the comedy section of my video store (I was hoping for an Election/Heathers feel) This movie was not so funny. Matter of fact there were several points in the movie where they clearly were shooting for humor but missed it. I was embarrassed for them. I dig Ricci most of the time but I wonder about this one. My biggest rant is the boyfriend of Ricci who I thought would have died after his car blew up before hitting the water. But to my surprise was alive in the hospital the next day. Save your popcorn for something else. "}{"Title":"Interesting, but not altogether satisfying","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found the film interesting, though it drags towards the end and goes on too long, but overall I couldn't feel emotionally connected to any of the characters.  I sympathized with Christina Ricci's character, but couldn't feel any emotional connection to her either - her performance is great, though.  However, I did find it unconvincing how she makes a sudden change from heartless b**ch to someone so caring, just because of one sweet line that Pumpkin says.  I also felt the Pumpkin character was badly written.  We already have to suspend disbelief about him being mentally ill, because his face is not disfigured, but he doesn't even behave like someone with mental illness.  He's supposed to have the mind of a child, yet he seems to say the right things at all the right moments.  This is unlike Sean Penn's character in I Am Sam, who rambles on aimlessly throughout many of his scenes, like people in his condition do.  The director obviously didn't do his research.  The actor who plays the character didn't too good of a job either, but he probably would've done a better job if his character was more well-written.  I think Pumpkin has more intelligence than most normal people twice his age.  I can't say I was bored by this movie, but it surely is no gem. My score  6 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Satiric story on forbidden love","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are some funny moments in this film and the cast is pretty good but I thought this story was primarily a one note idea. Story is about a senior in college named Carolyn McDuffy (Christina Ricci) who is part of a sorority and they want to win the contest of Best Sorority and to earn extra points they plan on helping retarded and handicapped teenagers in their preparation for the Challenged Olympics. Each girl will be a mentor to someone challenged and Carolyn is assigned to Pumpkin Romanoff (Hank Harris). He's in a wheelchair and can't talk much and Carolyn tries to teach him to throw the discus. They hit it off and it doesn't take long before Pumpkin is in love. As time goes on Carolyn must come to grips with her own feelings and she admits that she is in love with Pumpkin also. Carolyn is dating Kent (Samuel Ball) who is a BMOC and a tennis star and he doesn't seem to understand Carolyn but once she tells him it's over he is in shock. All of Carolyn's sorority sisters are in shock also and they put her on suspension. Pumpkin's mother Judy (Brenda Blethyn) finds them in bed one morning and she screams that she is a pedophile and a slut. Pumpkin works out in the backyard and becomes able to walk and speak and he plans on crashing the sorority ball where Carolyn is with Kent. *****SPOILER ALERT*****A fight breaks out and Kent loses and he is so ashamed that he drives off but he's distraught and ends up crashing his car. Kent is now in a wheelchair and Carolyn decides to leave her college and go to another but she still misses Pumpkin. She decides to see him at the Challenged Olympics and root him on. This film is a dark and satirical and it makes fun of just about everything. The humor is very dry and sarcastic in tone and their really isn't any laugh out loud scenes although I did chuckle at Ricci's poem Ode to Pasadena. And the stabs at Long Beach College are very funny but I found the script as a one note joke. It makes fun at all the preppy sorority's and when everyone is shocked by the relationship between Ricci and Harris it's in the name of sarcasm but the joke wears out fast and the film started to wear thin before the first hour was over. It was never stated clearly why Carolyn fell in love with Pumpkin, maybe that was part of the joke. And when you think the film is over, it's not. It goes on about 15 minutes too long and gives you more of the same. The humor is agonizingly blatant. We get the joke early but the film never shifts gears and it continues on with more of the same. The films humor is very dry and repetitive and even though I'm a fan of Ricci, she can't save this misfire.  "},{"Title":"It's Not Me, It's the System","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.`Revenge of the Nerds' meets `Theory of Flight' with a little `Other Sister' thrown in. Comes across as absolutely vapid. Its comic irony needs a reference, and this doesn't have one. First rule of screenwriting tell the audience where the ground is.Actors Coughlin works hard at taking over the body of Stockard Channing. Swain is going nowhere, and here only gets by because her character is clueless about who she is and controlling her body.As this is a first time director, we have few other clues about his intent. But the trend these days is to build in some ambiguity in the state of mind of the narrator. In this case, we can assume that the sterile storytelling is because it is Caroline McDuffy's dying remembrance (until the suicide) and vision of a happy ending (after the suicide). That would explain the dreamy, flat, abstract, incomplete world and the abrupt shift in tone at the suicide. (This follows the form of, say, `Vanilla Sky,' and dozens of others.)Dominica Swain was involved in `Lolita,' a project whose narrator was similarly questionable. That must be why she was picked.Ted's evaluation 1 of 4 -- You can probably find something better to do with your time. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" By far the worst movie I've ever seen. This movie took every stereotype known to man kind and tried to dispel it. I'll give them the benefit of the doubt that their intentions were paved in gold, but it was just too much. The only thing that kept us watching it was the thought that at some point in time the movie would get better, but nope, never happened. The movie ended and never before had the three of us wished we could have that time back.It would have been one thing if the movie was even remotely believable, but it was so far stretched that even if they had tapered off on some the points they tried to make, it still wouldn't have hit home. Best way to describe it is like applying makeup, the more natural it looks the better, but if it's gobbed on and the lipstick is too red and too thick, you don't want to go near it. "},{"Title":"Probably the creepiest movie I've ever seen, I squirmed in discomfort through the whole thing.","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always had this vague feeling that Christina Ricci has some weird hidden agenda and I think I finally know what it is. She has Scissorhands envy. This proves it. Everything about this movie is like a rehash of the BRILLIANT Tim Burton movie... even including one of the real cast members, Caroline Aaron! But a sick and twisted and ultimately boring rerun. Christina is listed as a producer... I guess this was as close as she could get to living Winona Ryder's life. I think Christina has some kind of weird compulsion to be Winona. Complete with creepy blond hair a' la Winona in Scissorhands. Think about it Winona does Beetlejuice, Christina does Adams Family, Winona does Johnny Depp in Scissorhands, Christina does Johnny Depp in The Man Who Cried and Sleepy Hollow, which by the way both felt like some weird kind of incest. Winona plays kooky Christina tries to play kooky but comes off spooky and creepy and in this movie she's the creepiest yet. Gives me the willies! There are a lot of underrated actresses out there who ought to be working and this girl needs to take some acting lessons and try to get over the single look she knows how to give. I can't believe it was nominated at Sundance. It makes me wonder who does the nominating... the producers? And how did Coppola and Zoetrope get lassoed into this one? I was totally creep-ed out by the story, the acting and can't believe any of the other actors agreed to do this awful movie. No wonder the directors/writer haven't done a thing since. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen...hands down. Terrible. Will probably be worse than Snakes on a Plane.","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was quite possibly, no, absolutely, the worst movie I've ever seen. The acting was poorly done, and the story was even worse. I sat through this whole film, and will never get that time back. I think that Christina Ricci owes us an apology. The name of a mentally handicapped kid is Pumpkin...Pumpkin! Then at the end of it, he sleeps with her. Well done kid. Let us also not forget the fact that when the car goes over the cliff (with the scene being stolen from another movie) the guy driving not only lives, he doesn't even have a single scratch on his body. Sure he's paralyzed, but if you go off a 100 foot cliff in a car, a car that explodes halfway down, you're gonna have some problems. Problems like charred skin and broken or missing limbs. I would rather suffer that fate than watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"So Bad, it's Worse","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This thing should be an embarrassment to all involved. It is almost as if it was intentionally horrible.It is difficult to list each and every way this was an utter waste of time, even as it was on in the background on a cable channel that is paid for no matter what it shows.If you are considering actually spending money or time on this, do yourself a favor, take a few hours throwing pennies, slowly, one-by-one, into a wishing well, hoping it is never aired again under any circumstances, other than in Gitmo.Unless you are the world's greatest drooling Ricci fan, make time to avoid this. "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE! No Wonder It's In The $3.99 Bin","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm a little angry as I write this... I figured I'd visit this movie on IMDb and would find nothing but bad reviews. Instead I find a bunch of people preaching about how great it was. I will give you one thing however. The story is fantastic, I think had somebody actually taken their time with this movie it could have been much better. Instead you slap together a bunch of actors nobody likes or has ever heard of and attempt to make a decent movie... GOOD LUCK! and the car over the cliff? Come On! like the page says they were too poor to do their own scene so they used another movie's. Don't get me started about the characters! they're so unbelievable like how Kent Says The F word... he hesitates every time he says it, they did not suck me into the story at all, I was quite aware that i was watching a movie. I think the worst part about this movie is the more times you see it, the worse it gets. I watched it once when it came out, didn't like it. again when I had grown up a little thought maybe I'd give it a second chance. Finally I watched it again last night because a friend of mine really wanted to see it. so I guess in conclusion, if you're a 15 year old girl, or a 60 year old grandparent You MAY appreciate this movie, Otherwise you should be disgusted. "}]