[{"Title":"Not as good as the series - but damn close!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I really liked the TV series - i used to watch every episode on the Disney Channel,But i don't think the movie is quite as good as the seriesFor instance   The writers are used to coming up with 10 minute stories, but with the movie it seems like a 10 min episode streched out to 80 minutes so i'ts not as good as i would have hoped, but the acting is still superb and very convincing. The animation is strangely NOT as good as the Series it seems very flat and uninspired. On the good side it's got a really cool story even if it could have been done in half the time & JAMES WOODS (his voice anyway) is really good as the bad guy. It has really cool 60's songs towards the end of the movie.all in all a really good movie which will delight kids and adults alike,just a shame it's not as good as the seriesmy rating 10/10 for pure enjoyment "},{"Title":"If you like Recess on TV you'll LOVE the movie.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Recess the TV show is about kids having fun, and teachers being teachers (good and bad). There's good character development and personality variation on the small screen and it carries well to the big screen.The movie puts the kids in the role of spies who need to break INTO school to save their lifestyle. Along the way, there are great 60's flashback scenes and songs, lots of funny spy movie cliches including the mob-scene climax.The characters are caricatures but it IS a cartoon after all. There's good voice casting (including James Wood, Melissa Joan Hart and a great sounding Robert Goulet). The plot is complicated (and just a little goofy), but my 8 and 10 year old had no trouble following the action.There are good messages about friendship, respect, integrity, duty, but these aren't done in a preachy way.The animation quality is variable. There are some great 3d zoom-sweeps, but for part of the movie the characters look like they've been singed. However, the few animation flaws are only an issue for nitpickers (like me).See it with someone who knows that characters and likes them. It'll be a good rental or a nice afternoon in the theater.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest Disney movies ever made...","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" ...I had never thought Disney could redeem themselves after movies like Tarzan and Mulan until I seen this classic.  Yes, I just said that Recess School's Out is a classic.  I loved this movie, and I'm a teen who hates most cartoons.There is nothing about this movie that isn't funny, from Robert Goulet making a 'cameo' as character Mikey's singing voice to all the overdone teen cliches in character T.J.'s older sister Becky (Mellissa Joan Hart).  This movie never even tries to be overly-dramatic as most other Disney movies, it's just straight, top of the line fun.Without a doubt the greatest thing going for this movie is James Woods as the Dr. Evil type villain, pulling all the cliches of the James Bond bad guys.  That's the great thing about Recess, it basically uses cliches, but makes fun of them too.Hilarious movie, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Tenderrrrrr!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Theodore Detweiler Jr. Vincent Lasalle. Michael Blumberg. Gustav Patton Griswald. Gretchen Grundler. Ashley Funicello Spinelli. Peter Prickly. Seven heroes out to save Summer Vacation from a madman who really whomps! Recess. School's Out. If you like the cartoon series, you'll love the film. Funny, inventive, and dare I say it for Ashley fans, SCANDALOUS! Featuring the voices of Andrew Lawrence, Rickey Collins, Pam Seagal, Dabney Coleman and James Woods as his greatest Disney villain since Hercules kicked his Hades' fanny, Recess; School's Out immortalized the children of Third Street School to icons of movie magic. Robert Goulet gives a perfect performance as Mikey's singing voice. His Green Tambourine video was just awesome! Do yourselves a favor, Recess fans, get off your fat, saggin' butts and WATCH THIS FILM!  It's Tenderrrrrrr!  "},{"Title":"A film about 6 school friends who are trying to save their school from bad guys.","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I love the film and thought it has everything a perfect film needs.The action,the comedy and everything else that makes the actual movie great.Rickey D'sh on Collins,Ashley Johnson,Paul Willson,Jason Davis,Andrew Lawrence,Courtland Mead,Pamella Segall,Dabney Coleman, April Winchell were perfect as the voices of the characters and so was everyone else that was involved with the movie.I love watching the cartoons on T.V. and don't really think that they are for little kids.Recess schools out shows the story about 6 school friends who find out some strange goings in their school and save it from bad guys who are trying to get rid of summer vacation. "},{"Title":"The Psychedelic History of 3rd Street School.","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Paul Germain and Joe Ansolabehere's Recess cartoon shorts, which ran on ABC when the Walt Disney Company first bought the network and transformed the entire children's programming department, were exaggerations of how many kids see life on the school playground. Since the series ran long enough, and seemed relatively popular, it should be no surprise that Disney would end it with a movie, whether it's a feature film or a made-for-television movie. While it's intended audience might not be able to relate to a soundtrack of wall-to-wall classic rock, the story itself is much easier for both kids and their parents to relate to.*POSSIBLE SPOILERS* T.J. Detweiller is as happy as anybody else at 3rd Street Elementary School that school is out for summer, because he thinks it's going to mean a couple of months of fun with his friends. Unfortunately, they've all gone to their numerous specialty camps, none of which turn out to be what either of them hope, but that's besides the point. Left at home by himself, he ends up with a great deal of spare time riding his bike around town. Suddenly he finds out that very weird activities are going on in his school, and they include secret service look-alikes and a green glow in the cafeteria windows. When he tries to tell his parents and the cops, they don't believe him(would you?), so he runs to the last person he wants to see... Principal Pete Prickly. And when he reluctantly follows TJ to investigate, he seems to dematerialize. This leaves him with no other choice but to get his older sister to gather his friends from camp and stop whatever evil plot might be going on. And only when the other kids see what looks like a huge laser beam coming out of their school auditorium do they decide to break in and stop whatever IS going on. Upon this break in, TJ is caught, and finds his hated principal alive and well.During their capture, Principal Prickly reveals that more than three decades earlier, 3rd Street Elementary was an easy-going school with a faculty population of reform-minded hippies, including the currently hard-nosed Ms. Finster and Prickly himself. But one of those hippies, former principal Phillium Benedict turned out to be a complete fake who used standard hippie-slang to score with the female teachers, and his only reform was the abolition of recess. Today, he's a disgraced former secretary of education who plans to abolish summer vacation, by abolishing summer completely!! Frankly, I find it difficult to believe that any school district would allow their fleet of buses to be painted psychedelic colors. The only ones that were painted that way were sold off to real hippies. The idea that somebody would use standard 1960's slang merely to pick up women(or score dope), however is very easy to believe. I also don't remember childhood being as happy-go-lucky as either the show or the movie suggests. At least it recognizes that Gus doesn't share the same memories as his friends(a fact which the 2003 straight-to-video All Growed Down ignores). And after three allegedly crazy stories about weird things going on at 3rd Street School, I'd think the local cops would be suspicious enough to think something must be going on. Flaws like this aside, not to mention a gimmicky CGI beginning and ending, don't detract from the fact that this is a movie that warms the heart a little as it tries to cash in on the success of a then existing cartoon series. "},{"Title":"Summer vacation; the ultimate recess","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" As a youth, I remember the show Recess with great memories. I remember it playing on Toon Disney (now Disney XD, respectively) at around 330pm when I was in the third grade. I used to rush home and watch it before carrying on with my homework. It was childhood nostalgia at its finest. I wasn't introduced to the series till around 2004 or 2005, so when the film came out in 2001 I had no interest in seeing it because, well, I didn't know what it was.It wasn't until about six months of watching the show I finally found Recess School's Out and watched it. Back then, I thought it was one of the greatest animated movies of all time. I was shown it again at the end of the year in forth grade when the whole grade watched it at once. Memories like that will never die for me.Not seeing this since around sixth grade, I used to rewatch it at least twice a year, seeing it again in 2011 kind of saddened me. I hesitate to watch old animated films I adored as a kid and some films like Fools Rush In which was a kid favorite of mine because I fear of tarnishing my memories of those movies. I remember them to be amazing and hilarious. When reality catches up to me, most of my childhood favorites are only average pieces of film.First of all, the film focuses on a bizarre storyline. T.J. Detweiller's forth grade year comes to an end and he has plans of riding bikes, camping out, and just hanging out with his five friends Mikey, Spinelli, Gretchen, Gus, and Vince. Only problem; they are all going to some sort of camp for most of the summer leaving T.J. secluded.T.J. spends his first days of summer riding his bike and moping, like any kid with no friends over the summer would do. He notices strange activity going on in the school. There is a giant laser beam, satellite monstrosity inside of it and when he goes to the principal for help, the principal is dematerialized right before his eyes after trying to unlock the front door.It turns out, that Dr. Phillium Benedict, former principal of the school, is trying to realign the moon to make a year round winter so summer vacation will be obsolete. His obsession with test scores and improvement leads to this chaos, so T.J. rounds up the gang to have an adventure and save their summer from extinction.The plot is entertaining, but it is unbelievably strange and awkward. Eliminating summer vacation? I could see that. Hell, it is already happening in some schools. But I don't know if any proctor is planning to realign the moon. Another thing, where are the neighbors to the school? Don't they see the laser beam come out? And who wouldn't notice the long beam of green light light up the sky? The police are absolutely no help either. I can understand if a kid comes in saying people are in a school with a laser beam and the cops not believe him. But if multiple people, even adults, came in saying nearly the same thing don't you think the police would at least investigate. In order for this plot to work, half the town has to be a bunch of unaware nitwits.And for a kids movie, it doesn't really have any attract factor for adults. The sixties music and the retro scenes are actually something adults may like. They only last for a short while though. Some scenes in this film like the scene of T.J. riding his bike with One is the Loneliest Number and the end credits with the whole Recess gang covering My Green Tambourine was actually the most favorable parts of the movie. I remember from my youth watching those scenes.The animation is a bit different from the show. The show was hand drawn, and the movie is CGI. In 2001, CGI still wasn't a normal thing for all animated films. It's that awkward period between the past and the present. The buildings look blocky, but the characters look great. It isn't the beauty and remarkable quality Toy Story has, but animation isn't everything. It gets by.Recess ranks up with the biggest nostalgic memories with me. While appreciating the movie when I was younger, the movie doesn't really serve more as a purpose than an extra trip to the theater. This could've easily been a TV movie, but maybe Recess deserved a film adaptation to the big screen. While some of the fun has deteriorated, there is still some there that will most likely never go away. The scenes in the treehouse were still as fun as they'll ever be.Starring Rickey D'Shon Collins, Jason Davis, James Woods, Paul Wilson, Ashley Johnson, Andrew Lawrence, and Dabney Coleman. Directed by Chuck Sheetz. "},{"Title":"Likeable Cartoon Feature","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This is a likeable cartoon feature for both parents and children because it moves along and holds your attention.  Fortunately, no one bursts out singing, but the oldies background music is a plus.  James Woods does a fine job as the voice of the baddie.  NOTE  Have never seen the TV show so am judging the film on its own.  "},{"Title":"Bright, colourful and entertaining.","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" RecessSchool's Out is one of the biggest surprises I had recently while watching films, for I found it bright, colourful and very entertaining. Yes, it's a kids' movies, but adults will like some of the voice actors and the music. Sure, the story is a little forgettable, and there are some slow parts, but the feel-good nature of the film compensates. The animation is very good, and is moreover true to the style of animation in the TV series. The script is quite funny, my favourite line being I have a fat saggy butt, which I like to scratch every hour on the hour. The voice cast breathe life to a likable host of characters, and are fantastic, the obvious standout being James Woods in a wonderful performance of Dr Benedict. The music is great, and Mike has a remarkably good singing voice. There are some very funny moments like anything to do with Randall and Ms Finster, and the fight at the end. All in all, engaging and entertaining, more reared at kids, but still likable for adults too. I honestly wasn't expecting it to be as good as it was. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"School is Out.","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Recess School's Out (2001) Dir Chuck Sheetz / Voices James Woods, Dabney Coleman, Andy Lawrence, Melissa Joan Hart, Peter MacNicol Based on the Saturday morning cartoon about the reckless boys of the school ground. Animation regarding freedom within its view of recess. School is closing for the summer but it is believed that an alien invasion is upon them when the principal disappears. This leads to a ridiculous climax. Director Chuck Sheetz does his best but the animation is on the same low level as South Park. James Wood voices Dr. Benedict wishes to take over the elementary school. Dabney Coleman voices the principal who tells of Benedict's nasty past. Those two adult characters actually carry their scenes effectively until the idiotic third act. The kids are elevated beyond a level one can identify. They throw themselves into danger that no normal kid would dare do and that isn't counting the implausible elements. Yes, this is a kids animation but certainly not the best in that league. Other voices include Andy Lawrence and Melissa Joan Hart who won't likely brag about this film on their next awards appearance. Although a message may exit, it seems more determined to sell a cartoon that had no quality to begin with. Children may enjoy this film but it is hardly engaging entertainment as oppose to something by Pixar. This animation has all the creativity of dog barf. Score 3 / 10 "}{"Title":"School's out...the fun begins","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I remember enjoying this film as a kid and was happy to buy it cheaply on DVD to revisit a small bit of my childhood.I think the film stands up well today. OK, it's not the best animation Disney have ever done and it probably relies on a knowledge of the original Recess cartoons, but really it is an enjoyable enough film with lots of laughs along the way.It tells a good story and James Woods is great as the bad guy. Watching it now as an adult I can spot the jokes aimed at adults and compared to most of the twaddle that is made in terms of kids films these days, Recess;school's out is a pleasant and appealing change.So if you're looking for a fun family film I wouldn't hesitate to try to hunt down a copy of this one. "},{"Title":"School's Out Forever!","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I vaguely remember seeing Recess School's Out in theaters when I was a little kid. I remember watching the television show and enjoying it. Many years later, I get a chance to watch the movie from my adult eyes. On the whole, the film is not a bad movie. I liked the story and the characters of the film. The story is simple, but nostalgic and the characters simply have life to them. Not all is perfect, though. The animation is quite shoddy and some of the dialog is not entirely effective.This film is about a bunch of kids who are out on summer vacation. T.J Detwiler is bored, because all his friends are at summer camps. Detwiler happens across a scheme where an old principal is trying to get rid of summer vacation forever. So T.J must grab his friends and some unlikely allies to stop this man from ruining these kid's lives. The voice cast of the film is not too bad. I am not too familiar with the actors who played the main characters, but they did a good job. James Woods did voice the villain of the show and his villainous character is actually quite scary. Overall, Recess School's Out is a pleasant diversion for families and especially the young ones. It's based off the hit TV show and I feel they did the show some justice. It's nowhere near the best of animated movies and it does have some faults, but there is no denying the charm of the film. Fourteen years after I saw this film in theaters, I still enjoyed it. My Grade B- "},{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I actually thought the trailer was more exciting than the movie. The big problem with this movie is that you don't feel like you're watching a movie, you think you're watching a long episode of the show. Whereas Beavis and Butt-head Do America, the South Park movie and The Simpsons Movie made you feel like you're watching a movie since they were in wide screen and had an orchestra doing the score, giving them all a nice epic feel. Recess School's Out makes you feel like you're watching a straight to DVD or TV Movie.The film was going to be straight to video, but somehow got a theatrical release. The animation does gets dodgy at times, They characters looked like they were drawn in a very rushed way. The plot about the Government trying to move the moon with a giant lazer, that's not something you'd see on Recess. The main focus is on T.J., it would've been nice to focus on the other kids as well. Like in the South Park movie where each kid had a sub plot and in The Simpsons Movie where each family member had a sub plot. That would've been better.Also, the whole thing about kids telling the police something and they don't believe them and just laugh at them is such a cliché.Still, I didn't hate the film. I liked the kids' rebellion against the government, James Woods' villain is amusing, there's some good gags here and now and it is a love letter to Summer holidays.The Green Tambourine song was good as well.They should have considered making this film a theatrical release, so that it would look better. I thought the trailer looked more theatrical than the movie itself. Maybe they should have made the movie look like the trailer. Not bad, but the TV show is better. "},{"Title":"something for everyone (outstanding)","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" if you want a movie that both kids and adults will enjoy,this is the movie for you.it's a cartoon based on the Recess TV show.it has jokes and references both kids and adults will understand,and some that only kids will get,others only adults will get.but the main thing is,it's immensely entertaining.it's very funny at times,with some slapstick and some funny dialogue.it also has interesting characters.plus the story is good.it's easy enough for kids to follow,and not so simple that adults will be disinterested.it also (without hitting anyone over the head)shows the value of working together to solve a problem.it's definitely family friendly with nothing that should be considered offensive,but it does have a bit of rude humour.for me,just out of sheer entertainment value,i give RecessSchool's Out a 10/10 "},{"Title":"TJ And Company's Mission, Should They Choose To Accept It","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" It's the most exciting time of year at Third Street Elementary-- the last day of school! But boredom quickly sets in for TJ Detweiler, as Mikey, Spinelli, Gretchen, Vince and Gus are going to summer camp to concentrate on their futures. One day, while passing by the school, he notices a green glow coming from the auditorium. This is the work of the insidious Ex-Principal of Third Street, Phillium Benedict and his gang of Ninjas and Secret Service Look-alikes, and they're planning to use their newly acquired laser (which they stole from a US Military Base) to move the moon and alter the weather, creating permanent winter, not only destroying summer, but also Summer Vacation! Mr. Prickly, Mr. Detweiler, Mr. LaSalle, Ms. Grundler, Mr. Griswold, Mr. Blumberg and Ms. Spinelli, your mission (should you choose to accept it) is to destroy that Tractor Beam and send Benedict and his minions to prison! "},{"Title":"I thought it was great","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I used to really enjoy this film. It wasn't just a boring, derived big-screen adaptation of some cartoon - it is evident that the producers and creators had their inspiration, what with the school being turned into some sort of futuristic sci-fi base. It would never happen in real life, but the fantasy of this film shows that people actually wanted to make this film, rather than having to make it just to satisfy all Recess fans. And the flashbacks to the 60s only help matters and give the film a really interesting plot, with real character being revealed. If only Prickly and TJ's escape from their cage could have been slightly better thought up and executed, I would have given it a 10. This film really helped develop on the characters from the original show - all of TJ's gang actually showing some ambitions in life (eg. space camp, baseball camp, army camp), and Prickly not being the cruel, harsh principal he was made out to be. The film did not do badly at all - I hope its current average rating of 5.9 starts to increase. Because this film actually had some inspiration and was very funny - highly-trained guards and police being outfoxed and beaten by schoolchildren, anyone? More cartoon big screen adaptations should be like this - this felt not like one overlong episode, but a proper movie in its own right. And I definitely enjoyed it. The film had a very satisfying conclusion, which rounded off something that we only wish to see more of in cinemas today. 9/10 "},{"Title":"it's good it's a good movie","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" i think it's a good movie i don't know why every time i watch that movie i get sad i guess it's cause where all growing up so fast & when you see kids playing your thinking man those kids have great lives & then there going to watch other kids grow up when there old, the movie makes me really sad i mean where all old we can't have adventures any more those kids you see there going 2 have adventures till they grow up so we all look back at when were kids then u might cry there were good times as a kid or bad times as a kid i wish i was a kid again oh i would love it lots of people would i mean you have more energy & you will still have you pet living i think this movie is good it kinda shows kids about growing up & how you should be happy your a kid they might think being a kid stinks but there wrong so very wrong i give this movie 10/10 "},{"Title":"Fans of the Show Will Love It","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" The animation is exactly that of the show, which I believe is a good move, to often is the animation of a show and the movie for it different and I believe it detracts from the artistic vision. The thing that really solidified this movie is the music. The old school popular music that they infused into this movie is great, Three Dog Night's One, and the Born to be Wild by Steppinwolf perfectly fit into the movie and are bound to set children down the path of good music. Good runtime, good plot. Like I said if you a fan of the TV series than you'll love this movie, it gives the feel of just a really long episode the only thing differing is the addition of good music which I always look for in a movie. "},{"Title":"The Recess Layout","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" The television series was fine, but once I saw this movie for the first time, it didn't make sense to me at all. However, as I watched a re-run of this movie again on T.V., that changed completely. I began to like the movie in a better perspective. What I've noticed was that the voice actors for every character were somewhat familiar and also talented. The main voice actors were of course of the Recess series, but then again there are some voices from the Hey Arnold! series as well. So, If you watch Hey Arnold!, you should know who they are in this movie.Here are the main voices for Recess Andrew Lawrence- T.J.; Rickey Collins- Vince; Ashley Johnson- Gretchen; Courtland Mead- Gus; Jason Davis- Mikey; Pamela Segall- SpinelliThe cast of Hey Arnold! Dan Castallenta- Arnold's Grandpa; Toran Caudell- original Arnold voice; Anndi McAfee- Phoebe; Francesca Smith- HelgaThe point is, the film is awesome! Hey Arnold and Recess involve 4th/5th grade students. But the voice actors of both TV shows combine to make this movie excellent! "},{"Title":"I loved the movie and Mikey is my new hero","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I am a big fan of the television show and the movie did not disappoint me. While the entire movie was awesome, I must say that my favorite parts of it were the ones with Mikey. How INSANE is it that Robert Goulet does his singing voice? The first time I heard Mikey sing, I laughed for about five minutes straight. Also, while the plot is ridiculous, it is kinda cool. It is easy to follow for children and adults alike. I only wish that this movie was a 3 hour epic, because 82 minutes is simply not enough for all the offbeat shenanigans and high jinks of T.J. and the gang. I will part with the now famous (meaning not famous) words of Mikey, Bon Voyage...Teeeeeeeeeeeeeee Jaaaaaaay! "}{"Title":"This Movie ROCKS!!","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Anyone, and I mean ANYONE, who didn't enjoy this movie should have their heads checked.  I laughed so hard I nearly ruptured something.  I don't like most Disney movies but this one reminded me so much of my life in grade school that I had to laugh at myself.Plus, the music that was included was not the same drowned out music you're used to hearing in other movies and the placement of the songs were as perfect as you could get.Go...See this movie again and again, you will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"An Excellent and Fun Movie!!!","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Recess  School's Out is an excellent movie.  It appeals to several generations, using older, yet catchy and popular rock classics that transcend time.  The flash back scenes are also great in making the movie appeal to those of various ages.The movie is just the right length in time, so it does not drag on, and keeps the attention of those with the even the shortest attention spans. Additionally, the characters are quite diverse, not only in gender and race, but in age and interests as well.  For example (POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT!!!)the characters are represented by school children of various ages starting with elementary kids (including kindergarteners), up to highschoolers. Also, the adults represented in the movie span over several age groups.  The group of main characters are best friends with varied interest-a brain, a jock, a tomboy, a military type, a sensitive type who likes singing, and the all around typical kid type, who loves to be with all of his friends.The overall theme of the movie is one that relates to anyone  It tells kids to enjoy their childhoood, and reminds adults about the magic of their own past childhood.I recommend this movie to anyone of the ages three to 103!!! "},{"Title":"Got a real kick out of this film","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I am familiar with the TV show as it is one of my sons' favorites. The TV show tends to be well written and intelligent.I found the movie to be the same. We took the extended family to see it for my youngest son's birthday. Everyone enjoyed the film, from kid to adult.While the animation was certainly primative in comparison to most Disney animation, the story kept moving with no real let up. My son (10 years old) commented that this was one to buy on videotape, a true compliment from him. "},{"Title":"funny movie for the whole family","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  This cartoon was enjoyed by the whole family.  After watching the TV series, my children were amused to see each character involved in a mystery plot on the big screen.  We had a lot of good laughs while watching a group of students save the day!  Mom especially enjoyed the music and hopes that there will be a sound track available.  It's great to see a good movie rated G that still entertains both the young and the older audiences.  Thumbs up to Disney for some good, family entertainment.   "},{"Title":"Great for what it is","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I shouldn't have to pay $5 (I only go to the matinee for these type movies) to see a Saturday morning (and now in the afternoon) cartoon. But after viewing Recess, didn't really mind. The kids I was with all liked it and I (an old guy who remembers the charms of summer) liked it as well. There were a few laugh-out-loud moments (the Pink Floyd reference, for example) and the rest of the movie was enjoyingly kid friendly. Take someone young and go see it! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  A very amusing movie, that anyone who remembers the 60's-80's should watch. It was slow at times but when it was fast it was fast and good.  There was amazing 3-D cartoon graphics, and some awesome composition in this film. Definitely for all ages, but you must carry a sense of humor.  This movie triggers your imagination and childhood.  I have seen the television show, and love it too, but this movie goes beyond the television version (although there are parallels).  good for all! "},{"Title":"Both children and parents will enjoy this well written story.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Recess the movie appealed to my family on several different levels. The movie was able to hold the attention of both children and adults with a wildly clever script. The tightly written story never sagged and was most enjoyable when it blended contemporary political satire with the edge-of-your-seat intensity of an action film.I wish Disney et. al. would produce more movies of such high quality. The film demonstrates that a family film does not have to be bland to the point where it is insulting to both parents and children and entertaining to neither. Recess shows that a movie can convey separate but equally important ideas to both the adults and children without coming off as preachy or sappy in the process. It is a blueprint for the adult-friendly children's film.For adults, the 60s flashback and fabulous soundtrack is worth the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"an OK movie adaption","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" Everyone's favorite Disney toon from the late 90s.Now a motion picture.Summer Vacation starts, school's out and almost everyone goes to Summer activity camps. All except for DJ. Who has no one to hang out with during the summer while all his friends are at their summer camps.One day he finds out that something strange is going on at the School. So he investigates and finds that some secret organization is planning out plans involving tractor beams and weather.This is a task far too big for DJ so he gets his friends for backup to stop this organization.Recess the Movie is one of those films that's only good to see once or so.It has some laughs here and there but not a highly great movie.I saw most of the TV series till I lost interest in it. Now and days I care less about the series. No offense to those who admire it.BUT YOU NEED TO BE A FAN OF RECESS TO ENJOY THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Not as good as a movie","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Recess is a great TV show about kids being the way kids should be. I'm in High School, but my friends and I when we were in grade 8 all decided who was who. I think I was the swinger girl. Anyway, the show had great adventures each show and there was no on-going plot that you needed to follow and therefor kids could watch any time and not be lost with what's going on. Recess School's Out is crap. All it is is Disney trying to suck money out of parents who will actually take their kids to the theater and plunk down 7.50 to see this corporate scam! They never made a movie out of the Simpsons, thank god! I mean, it was a cute movie, that's for sure. But the whole point of the show is seeing all the things that happen amongst the kids (which by the way is completly realistic!) and when they pull it on to the big screen they lost King Bob, and the diggers and everything about the kids playing on the playground at RECESS! "},{"Title":"A funny animated cartoon film!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I saw RecessSchool's Out and it was very likeable. T.J was a very funny character and I like the animation. The T.V. show is also funny, so I enjoyed the movie quite well. Anyways, I really enjoyed this movie and I recommend it. I give it a 9 out of 10! "}{"Title":"Animated comedy recommended to kids mainly","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  For kids who have watched, or even not watched, the TV show on ABC, this film should be the treat they've been waiting for since The Emperor's New Groove.  It has a pretty basic story of fiend who is trying to get rid of summer vacation and the kids and other various people who have to stop him, but it is a good time.  Like I said, mainly for kids, and while the film may not be the greatest time, they might find some slight amusement from the 60's hippie parts in the film as where the kids may not.  Robert Goullet, surprisingly, sings some of the songs here.  B "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":" I used to like this movie, but when i tried to watch it today, i could only sit still for half of it! Its boring, and its for kids aged 4-9. I'm sorry, Recess fans, but whats true is true. I give it a 1/10 because its a bad film. However, i have nothing against the series. But anyway, the music is old and bad. I mean, what wuz the point of the song incents and peppermint's? God! Well, i don't agree with anyone who likes this movie. That plot is lame and the voices are too deep. And you barely see Spinelli or Mikey or Gretchen or Gus or Vince. You only see TJ, who i never liked. Well, I'm gonna let you go read other comments now, so, yeah. "},{"Title":"Tender.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I really like the T.V. series ?Recess, so I decided to check out the movie. Frankly, I thought it was a pretty good movie. The story was pretty original, and the soundtrack has some classic 60's songs due to some scenes. Overall, this is a good movie. So check it out. "},{"Title":"Pretty amusing and entertaining....","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Amusing and entertaining big-screen adaptation of the cult Saturday morning cartoon show featuring a band of school kids whose recesses seem to last hours and hours.A TV show entirely based around school recess may seem silly, but the movie is just as strangely entertaining as the show.James Woods and Andrew Lawrence provide voice talents. "},{"Title":"OK UNTIL...","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I love recess and I enjoy watching the show with my son. We recently brought the movie and he really likes the movie but about the 10th time in a row he said Mom don't the Police helps when the bad guys are after you? I said yes he then asked so why did they laugh and not help T.J.? I didn't have a straight answer for him. but I did work my to a good answer. I just think Disney need to be more careful with the message they are bring to different ages. I know a 10 and older child would understand but younger that that. But over I I like the movie however I can't rate this a 6 or higher in honor of my six year old who now ask 21 questions about Police all over again. "},{"Title":"Runs 'out' of steam","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that I am a gigantic fan of the TV show RECESS so I expected to love RECESS SCHOOL'S OUT. At first, the movie was living up to my expectations. Then somewhere in the middle of the movie, I just began to hate it. It started off well enough with T.J. voiced by Andrew Lawrence discovering all his friends were going to camps for the Summer, but after he finds out something isn't right at his school the movie runs out of steam. It is full of dumb kiddie jokes, flat animation, and has almost every movie cliche' ever to appear on the big screen.  Die-hard fans of the show may find it slightly enjoyable while others will absolutely dread it.  "},{"Title":"Why Aren't There More of These???","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  I once was studying cartoon violence in my a psychology class I took last year.  We were assigned to study 10 popular cartoons television programs that are aimed towards children.  Among the cartoons I watched were Bugs Bunny, Foghorn Leghorn, Sylvester and Tweety, Pinky and the Brain, The Super Mario Brothers Super Show, and Recess.  We had to tally how many actions of violence occur in each cartoon and then study a child while watching a cartoon.  The most violent by far was Foghorn Leghorn (he would shove another character something like 16 times in 6 seconds).  The least violent by far was Recess.Recess was also one of the more sophisticatedly written cartoons.  Its observations on the active minds of 4th graders are just right.  Now, 9 months after my study of cartoons, my dad asked me to bring my stepsister to see Recess School's Out.  I expected it to be a feature length episode of the cartoon, but boy was I surprised.  This movie knows exactly what kids want to see and what parents want to take their kids to see.  Kids don't want to see garbage family films like Thomas and the Magic Railroad or dark, misguided ones like Dr. Seuss's How the Grinch Stole Christmas.  Kids want something they can identify with and believe in.Hollywood seriously has to star making family films FOR FAMILIES! We deserve more movies like Recess School's Out and The Emperor's New Groove. "},{"Title":"Stinker","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Family, Comedy","Review":"  While our daughter enjoyed this film and wants to buy it when it is inevitably released on video in a matter of weeks, there wasn't one laugh in the whole sorry mess for my wife and I.  The best part came towards the end when the overweight, body suit-clad female teacher burst through the auditorium skylight and declared, Hey, teachers, leave them kids alone, a direct Pink Floyd rip-off.  That is the best thing I can say about this stinker.  Wait until it comes out on video, and then rent it.  Don't waste your money, or time, at the theater. "}]