[{"Title":"In response to the negative reviews","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"297 out of 354 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe some of the nonsense I've read here. People are complaining that Redford looked too old in the flashback scenes -- for one, I thought he looked believable. Secondly, Hollywood hasn't cloned Redford in a vat yet so we'll just have to live with scenes like this. So get over it. Others complain that the movie is somehow BORING, which blows my mind, considering it's non-stop, fast paced action and dialogue. If you're attention span is too short for this movie I'm sure you'll enjoy crap like XXX. Others complain about messy plot logic (how did a CIA operative get into a Chinese prison? Huuu duhh, I dunno! It's a popcorn flick you morons! It's not a 900 page novel or a documentary). The plot takes a few leaps here and there, but a Snake Eyes or Face/Off this film is not. I read complaints about the 'arty', flashy 'MTV' style editing and filming techniques -- I actually thought the movie was filmed and edited superbly and the contemporary, TV-commercial style actually complemented the film. It's crisp, tight, taut and entertaining. You get the feeling this is a high-quality production, whereas with something like Mission Impossible 2 the same type of style is implemented but it comes off feeling cheap. Not here, not with this movie. As with Enemy of the State, it works. I have a feeling some of the people that thought it was boring simply couldn't follow what was going on. The plot does make sense if you have the attention span to keep up.  "},{"Title":"Better the n-th time around.","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"155 out of 179 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I made the mistake of only watching this film once the first time around. I did end up buying it, though I was never sure why. Then, years later, I got around to watching it again... and again... and again... While Spy Game is so fast-paced that it's difficult to keep up the first time around, I think that's what makes it such a great DVD.There are performances in this movie that defy description. You almost get a sense that if you were to meet him in the street, you'd get someone named Nathan Muir playing the part of Robert Redford - the transformation is that complete. In several scenes, but especially the scene on the Berlin rooftop, Redford gives a performance that is unlike almost anything I've ever seen in cinema. It's that perfect. Brad Pitt also does an amazing job, but Redford steals the whole movie.I had to re-watch Spy Game three times before I felt I got a complete understanding of everything going on. There is almost nothing given away for free in this movie - none of the standard Hollywood shove-it-in-your-face-so-you're-sure-to-get-it fare. Every decision, most plot points, and a lot of what would normally be called meaningful looks are written on Muir's face for a split second, then they're gone.This is one of the few movies that's intellectually challenging to watch. It takes patience and a quick assessment of each scene to understand and keep up. None of the acting is over the top or explicit; most everything is controlled, subtle, and delicately handled.All in all, Spy Game is an exceptional movie, IMO, to watch and in some ways to study. "},{"Title":"High quality Hollywood thriller","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"135 out of 163 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is everything we're not supposed to expect from a major Hollywood movie engrossing, intelligent, well written, acted and directed.  But that's just what it is and more, this is definitely the best thing I've seen since Memento.  Although Pitt is really good and Redford plays himself as well as he has in years, I think the most credit should go to Tony Scott.  In the hands of a lesser director this could have been something more like Mission Impossible.  But Scott stays right on target, keeping us interested, developing the characters, and keeping the pacing nearly perfect.  Scott also shows us that he's stayed with the times he employs the full array of modern camera tricks like fast motion, reverse zooms and funky lenses but in a way that actually makes the film better instead of being an annoying distraction.  The dialogue feels natural, all the actors do good work, no one tries to steal the show or be the star.  The story is interesting and almost never lapses into the kind of hyper violence or sappy sentimentality one has come to associate with modern studio pictures.  You get a feeling this is pretty close to how the CIA really operates, a place with fantastic technology at its disposal but who's ultimate effectiveness is determined by the fallible people who run the missions and take the chances.  I really enjoyed this film, I hope it's a sign of things to come and not a rarity.  "},{"Title":"this is a whole different game...","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"89 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are many reasons why we like a movie or not. For me, this is the case in witch small things were enough to like it the two main actors, the places in which the action occurs, and the fact that it has more to do with a love affair, in a tragic atmosphere than about spies. Well, of course this is about spies - two of them - and mostly about the relation between them; if they are similar enough to understand each other, they are also different enough to generate some tension in the relation. Maybe this is more about how the characters move around each others than about action or intrigue. In fact this is so obvious that the way in which the story is told is mostly in flashback, with Muir (Robert Redford) introducing all of them and narrating part. So, the story is the story and the spy game is what Muir does within the CIA, in 24 hours or so. The distinction is important because if you think of this as a traditional spy movie (maybe like the Bourne Identity or Supremacy) it has two obvious flaws for the genre the plot is very simple (maybe predictable) and there's no bad guy, no one to kill or to revenge; there's also almost no genuine action, and, as far as I can remember, Bishop (Brad Pitt) only fires one weapon in the whole movie. Maybe what mislead most of the people was the title of the movie, and maybe that's why most of them didn't like it. However, in my opinion, this is a very good movie, with strong leading roles and a compelling story. No gadgets, no arms, no villains, no action...oh, no,this is a whole different game, and it's a serious and a dangerous game the game of people and their relations. "},{"Title":"Not just another Tony Scott action film--it's complex, thought-provoking. *** (out of four)","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"74 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPY GAME / (2001) *** (out of four)Tony Scott is known for his big budget, fast-paced, action-packed extravaganzas. His latest film, Spy Game is no exception. He takes advantage of a massive budget, but loses sight of human comprehension. It's difficult to grasp his moral when it's awash in a superficial style where individual shots seldom last more than thirty seconds, and where dialogue never exceeds the length of a short paragraph. There's not much time to introduce characters, situations, or even locations-datelines appear on the screen to identify times and places.Yet, it doesn't just feel as if we are in another movie by Tony Scott-everything feels very real. The danger is real. The characters are real. Many action films are about the action, special effects, and car chase sequences. Spy Game does contain those things, but they are in a focused, tight, evocative thriller. This movie is about the characters, not the action. It never forgets that. Spy Game contains a complex structure. We begin in 1991. Veteran CIA officer Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) prepares for retirement. On his last day, he learns that his one-time protégé, Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt), has been captured in a foreign prison on a charge of espionage and will be executed in 24 hours. Fearing international crisis, the CIA decides it would be too risky to save him. But with a new generation in control of the agency, Nathan is no longer an insider. He must outsmart his own agency in order to save his old friend.Most of the film plays out in flashbacks as the CIA digests valuable information from Muir. The movie spans from the Vietnam war to the end of the Cold War, with years ranging from 1965 to about 1991 (although the characters don't seem to age much). We learn Nathan chose Tom as a sharpshooter in Vietnam. He trained with Bishop. They formed a close bond, until something came between them-a woman.The forty-year span in time poses no problem for Spy Game. The engaging screenplay, by Michael Frost Beckner and David Arata, focuses on only the necessary characters. The soundtrack, by Harry Gregson-Williams, masterfully captures the various time periods, spicing the scenes with a slick sense of style and intrigue. The cinematography by Daniel Mindel makes the differences in location clear. Christian Wagner's editing gives the movie a frenzied, almost rushed emotion, that puts us right in the middle of the race against time.Pitt and Redford retain their ground, despite a thick style. Redford creates a character out of nothing. We know little about him at the beginning, and we know little about him at the end. But he somehow gives his character a conscience, human values, and a lot of interest. We care about him because we do not like the black and white CIA operatives. Thus, we care about Pitt's character as well. Pitt gives his character an immature nature. He is in a stereotypical young hotshot role that might have fit him better a few years ago, but he still creates a grave sense of panic and fear.With a structure like this, we expect subplots to evolve from the flashbacks. There is an intriguing terrorist story. A love story. Themes about betrayal, trust, position, friendship, commitment&#133;but Spy Game never slows down and allows us to absorb these important details. By the end, we feel exhilarated, and we know we just watched a very smart, well-crafted film, but the most we can take from it is that it is a very smart, well-crafted film. I think, beneath all the style and surface, there is a little more to the movie than that.  "},{"Title":"Average moviegoer won't appreciate it","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"104 out of 165 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" STYLE, SUBSTANCE AND CLASS! Spy Game will blow right over the heads of most audiences and it obviously has. It's an underrated, taut masterpiece that gets everthing right -- the writing, directing, editing, acting is all Oscar caliber. Not to mention it's one hell of an ambitious production. Spy Game is what happens when professionals in the business come together to make an intelligent, masterfully crafted thinking man's actioner that as a viewer you can have complete confidence in while viewing -- that's a rare thing these days in Hollywood. It's a rare gem that reminded me of Clear and Present Danger. Let's hope we see a lot more of this, and a lot LESS of X-Men, Mission Impossible, Rush Hour, Pearl Harbor, Lord of the Rings and other utter boring trash passed off as action fare.   "},{"Title":"Quality movie...","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"65 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very neat and intelligent movie. Everything about is perfect, no flaws really. Pitt shines better than in Fight Club here! But what really makes it even better than it is, it is the soundtrack which is absolutely stunning. You could feel european quality approach...Highly Recommend!  "},{"Title":"Maybe a little far-fetched, but clever.","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game will probably never be considered among the best spy movies to come out of Hollywood, however, it is a really entertaining movie with quite a few surprises.The movie is set in the early 1990's. Nathan Muir (Redford) is a retiring CIA officer who learns that his former protégé Tom Bishop (Pitt) has been captured while attempting a prison rescue in China and will be executed shortly. CIA brass want to know what motivated Bishop to attempt this unauthorized action and they interview Muir to find out. Muir tells the story of how he met and trained Bishop from Vietnam to Berlin to Beirut. While Muir is setting the background, he is also working secretly behind the scenes to free Bishop. Will Muir's cloak and dagger antics be discovered before he has a chance to free Bishop? Overall the movie is not as good as other spy genre films such as Three Days of the Condor, Spy Who Came in From the Cold, or Hunt for Red October. I think Redford does well in the role of the retiring, slightly jaded CIA officer Muir. Pitt does well with what he's given, though I think his character suffers from poor writing, especially near the end of the film. Think of Spy Game as a more sophisticated Mission Impossible (that's no knock on MI) and you'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Worths a lot!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is funny,interesting and action of first category.The story is about the rescue of Tom Bishop(played by Brad Pitt)a spy who is in jail in a prison in China.Everything happens in a terrible time when the US is in negotiations of peace with China.So the CIA doesn't mean to save the body of the agent, who is ward, of Nathan Muir(Redford,the best in the picture).So Muir has to rescue Bishop in 24 hours so he's going to be executed by the chineses.The story is all told in flashbacks.But Tony Scott was very competent telling the story in a very modern way,as usual!He is used to do a very interesting game with the cameras.Showing quick scenes and a fast rythman.The story is incredible and you won't be disapointed!If you liked Enemy of the State which was made by the same director you'll like a lot this motion picture.Two thumbs up!!!  "},{"Title":"excellent film","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Top notch thriller. Engrossing, though typical plot/subplot (two men develop friendship, woman comes between them, but buddy helps out and saves couple) and great character development considering characters are supposed to be mysterious spies and very little is told about their background.Robert Redford is a cynical, yet warm mentor, and Brad Pitt is a hotshot moralist as well as being the best assassin in the business. Redford is an old-school operative who uses his 'tradecraft' to out-wit the technology the modern CIA now relies on, to bust his protégée out of a Chinese prison after Pitt's character, a rogue agent, uses CIA resources to rescue his girlfriend, fails and ends up in prison himself facing execution in less then 24 hours for being a spy . The relationship between the two men is told in a series of flashbacks that span a time-line of about 20 years starting during the Vietnam war to the cold war in Berlin and the mean streets of Beruit as Redford's character stalls for time during a debriefing into the rescue failure on his last day of work before retirement. In the meantime, between breaks of debriefing, he mines for information about why the CIA won't save one of their own as well as setting up a covert operation to get Pitt and his girlfriend out of prison before they are executed.Cinematography is reminiscent of brother Ridley (grainy, washed-out imagery in tones of brown and blue), and editing and camera movement is more like recent films from Woo or Ang Lee. The action is realistic without being over the top. There are no fancy gadgets or impossible stunts.Compared to stuff like XXX (or worse, XXX-2), Mission Impossible 1 & 2, or any number of action thrillers about secret agents (such as the most recent crop of James Bond films or Charlie's Angels), this movie seems to tell it the way it is or the way you might think reality might be. The tradecraft actually makes way more sense then, say, a watch with a laser cutter built in or a car with missiles an ejection seat. All in all, a very watchable and believable film. "}{"Title":"Smilie's Game Spy the Image","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"36 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tony delivers something I would have expected from brother Ridley -- a set of images about images--the photographic and editing style is one of successive photographs often shifted/zoomed with the shutter click; some black and whites, many color deprived.--the hero's cover story is as a photo journalist and his photos are shown the same as the CIA's, Redford's recollections, and the 'narrator's.'--The agency is primarily about images in real life, images and action and that's self-referentially played up here. Scott uses a style of zooming in and out by jump cuts that he developed on his last film -- also about images and the intelligence community. Lots of cameras and binoculars here.--the dramatic action is global, involving several hotspots with lots of action. When viewing that action, the cameras are hand-held. When watching the calm, controlling scenes at headquarters, we see them more statically as they are being videotaped, often spying through blinds. (Spy = see.) Often the images have digital tags.--Some of the field scenes with Redford and Pitt are shot as though from a spy plane (as in that swooping, sweeping shot on a roof) or if interior as seen through a hole.--Lots of helicopter shots, and lots of helicopters. It seems every combination was employed among the following ground, interior of heli, interior of second heli, front of heli, heli POV, above heli. This by itself is self-referential when you notice how many of the 'ordinary' shots are from helis.There is also a clever self-reference in the casting. Pitt was hailed as the 'new Redford' when he appeared in 'Thelma and Louise,' by brother Ridley. Then in 'River Runs' he was directed by Redford, in a Redfordlike role, underscoring the relationship. Here, he also is mentored, but in my opinion outacts Redford at every turn. I believe Scott intended to use Redford's limits as a tired actor to the advantage of this reference. Pitt has been working hard in relatively minor but challenging roles and the results show.The only real complaints are the clumsy plot mechanics the last day before retirement -- a clear 24 hour to doom clock -- a wily and complete outwitting of the pencilnecks -- all the CIA analysts and technicians as outwittable dimmies -- a senior character says 'get everything we have on so and so' and 10 seconds later a secretary appears with the files in multiple copies -- a helicopter is shot down it disappears behind the trees and then we see a fireball. Fortunately we gloss over all that stuff. Couldn't in 'Enemy of the State.' "},{"Title":"Spy Game Robert Redford, Brad Pitt, Catherine McCormack, Stephen Dillane. High paced, boy's own Amercian spies out to save the world and maybe each other. 3 Flys Out of 5","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"30 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  You can rely on Robert Redford and Brad Pitt for polished performances and action director Tony Scott (Crimson Tide, Enemy Of The State, True Romance, Top Gun) will always keep the pace of a movie galloping along, but will the mix necessary produce a quality movie?Spy Game is essentially about the foibles of humanity. Even seasoned hard nosed spies can have softer moments you know. Nathan Muir (Redford) is on his last day as a spy with the CIA when his protégéé Tom Bishop (Pitt) gets nabbed on an unauthorised mission trying to break someone out of a Chinese Prison. Bishop is going to be executed in 24 hours unless Muir can do something.Muir realises that the CIA is going to dump Bishop for the sake of impending trade talks. We are treated to a series of extended flashbacks to Vietnam, Berlin and Beirut which chronicle Muir and Bishop's relationship.Spy Game is mostly a boys own story with lots of explosions showing smart men outwitting the opposition. As Muir teaches Bishop his tradecraft we're introduced to how spies are taught to case a restaurant, fix a radio, vomit on demand.We're told how they are trained to be callous, to look at the big picture, to stay remote, to sell out people if that's of use. They're taught how to kill.And we're shown again and again the CIA assassinating people, causing civil unrest, authorising explosions, arranging murders. The film makes no apologies for this but implies that for the good of the free world, well someone has to do it. Spy Game certainly surfs sweetly on American patriotism.Spy Game is predictably interesting though mainly because of Robert Redford who still has that million dollar smile and Brad Pitt who mixes boyish charm with a slight degree of angst.Tony Scott's film making style however really needs to slow down. Relentless pace and swooping cameras are eventually tiring and they don't give time to contemplate. Still, Spy Game is slick and informative. I'm damn glad I don't live in a war zone.3 Blown Apart Flys  "},{"Title":"Possibly the best intrigue/espionage movie ever made","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" That's quite a statement to make, I know, but this movie is a rare gem in an ever-more-diluted genre. Redford delivers an incredible performance as the jaded veteran CIA case worker who tells the tale of his protégé Tom Bishop. Redford is too slick for words, and only he could deliver the lines as believably.Spy movies tend to be flashy and sexy--either James Bond or Jason Bourne--and for good reason they put butts in seats. Don't get me wrong, I love those movies too. But they very rarely give an honest portrayal of the real world of espionage and intrigue. Understandably, because most of that world is incredibly dry and boring.Spy Game shows this reality. Admittedly it sticks to the highlights to keep you interested and on the edge of your seat--it's intense--but it also shows the human cost of espionage, for the agents and for those they affect.At its core, Spy Game is about dedication, sacrifice, and redemption, seen through the lens of realpolitik at the end of the Cold War. "},{"Title":"Finally a spy movie that really forces you to think.","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike the action-packed FX extravaganza blockbusters that have been coming out lately, Spy Game is more like a classic spy movie or a Tom Clancy novel. Instead of showering you with violence and gore, Spy Game challenges your mind and forces you to pay attention to every little detail; now that's MY kind of movie. I believe the reason Spy Game didn't do as well as it should have in theaters was that it had been advertised as an action flick, and trust me, it's not. Although it starts out with a heart-pounding escape scene in a Chinese prison, the rest of the film is mostly dialogue and flashbacks. This bothered some people that felt they needed to see explosions and machine guns to enjoy a movie (you'd think we would change after September 11th). Instead, Spy Game draws you into a web of CIA agents and government officials all hustling to cover their own mistakes. The protagonist is an agent (played by Robert Redford) who is working his last day for Central Intelligence, but puts his plans on hold when the spy he trained is captured by the Chinese government and scheduled to be executed in 24 hours. Sure, it's quite trite, but who cares! The mind game played between Redford and the other agents is so compelling that it more than makes up for all the cliches in the script. Brad Pitt proves himself to be a talented actor (again) and the rest of the cast is excellent. So just watch the movie and let yourself enjoy it.Overall rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Spy Game is the best spy film of all time!","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game is a fantastic film. I have given this film a perfect ten because it is one of the only films that I can watch over and over again.Robert Redford is superb as Nathan Muir. He plays the role with complete authenticity. From beginning to end this film keeps the viewer interested as Redford tries to play catch up with fellow CIA agents using every trick that he acquired during his time as a field agent.Brad Pitt plays his best role to date. He becomes the apprentice agent learning along the way but also showing that he will not be told what to do.Redford and Pitt combine perfectly in this one, it is an absolute pleasure to watch the two on screen together and one can only hope that will rejoin once again in the future.In addition, the supporting cast is superb. All the other agents in the movie play incredible roles which makes for a very realistic view of CIA operations.This movie is a classic spy thriller and probably the best in this genre. This movie makes the The Bourne Supremacy look a typical Hollywood cliché. "},{"Title":"Electrifyin', Shockin' & Rockin', but down to earth!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ***SPOILERS AHEAD***The story starts of with Tom Bishop (Aka Brad Pitt) holed up in a Chinese prison trying to recruit his ASSET Liz Hadley (played by enchanting newcomer, Christine McCormack, whose performance yet again is way above brilliant. Things go awry, the rescue attempt fails. It is 14 April 1991. Zoom in on The US Embassy in Hong Kong, and we find out the man at the pinnacle of Tom Bishop's life. This is the man who will haunt him forever. Zoom into Langley, HQ of the world's cleverest individuals, the Central Intelligence Agency. Nathan Muir, the rogue agent is asked to explain his actions in dealing with Bishop and this is how his narration goesBishop is a Staff Sergeant with the US Marines and is serving in Vietnam (around the time of April 1975), when he's approached by none other than the great Nathan Muir the CIA's most conniving, rogue agent. Muir deceives Bishop in a number of ways throughout the movie, in order to teach him how life as a spy really is. Throughout the movie the immense scenes of war torn Vietnam, Berlin & Beirut capture us. Along with the horrifying reality portrayed in the scenes accompanies a score second to none composed by Hans Zimmer's protégé, a young lad by the name of Harry Gregson-Williams (whose other credits include Shrek, Chicken Run, As Good As It Gets, Enemy Of The State, Replacement Killers, Peacemaker, The Fan, The Rock & Crimson Tide).From the jungles of 'Nam we are transported to Berlin, East Germany in 1976. Bishop learns the hard fact of life as a spy, that in order for him to succeed, it will cost lives other than his own. Bishop is morally confronted and shaken when he leaves behind an East German he has to save from certain death, and he fails.Cut to Beirut, Lebanon in 1985. Bishop & Muir are again on the front lines of death and despair. This time they have to slay a well-known terrorist. In the process, Bishop falls in love with his ASSET, the beautiful Liz Hadley (this is the pinnacle of the film where the story ultimately changes). Apart from a few misguided sex romps, Bishop finds out his ASSET is truly a fanatic from an extremist group based in London, and that she has been part of a bombing which has taken the life of the Chinese ambassador's nephew (something that was not expected!). What he doesn't know is that he's been played for a fool. Eventually he finds out Hadley is a scam artist, but still finds it hard to forgive her as well as Muir who exposes her during a regular chat over whisky in a sleazy Lebanese bar.Meanwhile back at Langley, As Nathan Muir narrates his hellish ordeal, he intends to take the CIA for a ride, and does it in a very clever unknowing manner which has the other members of the CIA guessing right till the end. Everyone in the agency knows Muir is about to retire, but nobody knows he has foreign assets worth $282,000.The twists of the film just get better and better with every passing second., and eventually Muir saves Bishop's life by putting his life savings on the line. He has taken the help of his trusty mate, Harry Duncan at the US Embassy in Hong Kong to corrupt 10 employees at Su Chou prison where Bishop was being held.What ensues is one of the best endings I've seen since ENEMY OF THE STATE (Another badass TONY SCOTT flick!).At Langley, Muir alters the thermal imaging maps of the Bahamas with China, and the CIA echelon quiz him about his property interests. Little do they know they've been conned.Muir in the meantime, figures out a very good way to save Bishop - he forges the CIA Director's signature and authorises a band of rag tag Marines to go to Su Chou prison to rescue Bishop and Hadley, who he is forced to think about since he delivered her to the Chinese government in exchange for a US official taken as a hostage. The rescue attempt takes place after a blackout occurs courtesy of the 10 employees of the prison who have gleefully been double-crossed by Muir.In the end though, Muir gets back his USD 282,000. And everyone realises its too late, the incident in China surprises the CIA. And Muir, Hadley and Bishop walk the earth.....free from their chains.The moral of the story is WHO DARES, WINS.My Final Verdict The Movie10/10; The Music (Score + Other Titles)10/10; Tony Scott (He always delivers!)10/10; Robert Redford9/10; Christine McCormack8/10; Brad Pitt7/10.  "},{"Title":"Idiocy for the completely ignorant.","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" You should expect a few anachronisms and factual errors in any film set more than ten years in the past. But this movie is completely full of them from beginning to end, and it was made not even ten years after when it was set. That's the first howler, the Berlin Wall came down in 1989 not 1992! Where do we start with the rest if Brad Pit had been a tasty young hunk in 1992 how could he have also been a hardened assassin in Viet Nam, probably before he'd had time to have been born. How come the folk's in Beirut were chatting on cell-phones in 1982, years before they were available in the rest of the world, and when a car phone was literally that, a phone that required a car to move it! And what about the natty 2001 style thin monitor computer on the agent's Beirut office desk! Then what about the gigantic ten year gap in the plot between Brad character's girlfriend being caught and his going to rescue her, which is presented as an act of passion? Not only did it simmer well but she looked not a day older after ten years in a Chinese prison! Then that rescue.Who but an idiot would imagine that a p3 in the CIA has the authority to authorise an act of war on China! And if they did, only two choppers! And clapped out 40 year old old Huey's, when the USMC have been flying Black Hawk's since the Eighties. A stupid error made all the more glaring by the pilot of one referring to his machine as Black Hawk One. Oh, I geddit, they are the same two Huey's they used in the Viet Nam scenes. Or maybe they are meant to be THE SAME TWO HUEYS that appeared in those scenes. You see, I don't know, in a film this full of temporal worm-holes anything is possible! Or maybe they should have spent more money on hiring choppers and less on the ridiculous overblown sound-track with its tiresome clichés comprising plaintiff choirboy's and Arabian vocal pirouettes and a clumsy abuse of themes from Vaughn-Williams.As you may well imagine, my only reason for sticking to the end of this film was to see what more howlers were in store.It seems to have been written by a twenty-something with an absolutely shameful and absolute ignorance of anything before the present. It is an appalling indictment of this director that he would put his name to such a thing. "},{"Title":"Clever plot  , nicely told","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When a well planned mission goes wrong and Tom Bishop(Brad Pitt) is held prisoner in a Chinese prison , CIA calls Nathan D. Muir(Robert Redford) on a day before he is to retire ,to throw some light into the situation. Muir had been bishops mentor and had trained him as a spy. So the story is told by Redford as a narrative. He narrates how they came together, carried out missions together and ultimately parted their ways. Twists and turns assured in this cleverly written movie . The part where Redford trains Pitt is simply superb. The chemistry between the actors is great.The movie is a two hour entertainment nothing more nothing less "},{"Title":"heart vs rule","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" you can find a lot of pairs of contradictions.to me, the most touching battle is the one between the soft part of their (Brad Pitt & Robert Redford) heart and the iron rules of the spy game.glad their heart won out.was also relieved to see in the movie how we earthlings might be, after all, more than machines, although I still like the poignant remark by Kurt Vonnegut, Tralfamadorians, of course, say that every creature and plant in the Universe is a machine. It amuses them that so many Earthlings are offended by the idea of being machines.while getting the job done usually means human beings act like machines, following hard rules. feelings have to give way to interest.while the Redford underestimated the feelings of his boy scout to the girl, the CIA antagonists underestimated Redford's feelings for his own horse. so it goes. "},{"Title":"Quite a good thriller...more of an expose on some dirty tricks of CIA operatives!","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It is refreshing to watch an older Robert Redford pitting his acting skills against a younger Brad Pitt in this spy thriller movie. Both of them acted very well despite the sketchy plot.To me, the storyline is pretty straight-forward A retiring CIA operative, Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) learned that his protégé, Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt), had been arrested in China as a result of a botched rescue attempt of his girl-friend. He was due to be executed shortly. Because of vested interests, CIA refused to mount a rescue. Out of friendship, Muir engineered a successful but unauthorized rescue.The entire movie is beautifully choreographed through black & white flash-backs & pure dialog, during which Muir recalled his personal encounter & close friendship with his protégé. That relationship spanned across a time line of about twenty years, from the Vietnam War in the 70's, to the end of the cold war in Berlin during the 80's & then to the mean streets of Beirut in the 90's.The movie moves on to show how Muir had taught Bishop all the skills (or dirty tricks?) of spycraft...how to case a restaurant, fix a radio,...to be callous, look at the big picture...to stay remote...to sell out people if that's of use...to kill.There is no typical high-octane action sequences in this spy thriller movie, except for a heart-pounding escape scene in a China prison.Throughout the movie, one can see how Muir had to use his wits & all the skills (or dirty tricks?) he had learned while working for the CIA to out-smart the CIA's top echelon as well as his fellow CIA operatives to mount a personally-financed rescue mission.I really enjoyed watching his brilliant machinations as he moved from scene to scene in the movie. I just loved the part where he juxtaposed CIA satellite images to fool his bosses. He even forged the signature of the CIA Director. At the end of it, all of them apparently did not have the slightest clue as to what was happening & had happened.On the whole, I have enjoyed watching this spy thriller. It is also comforting to know that an accomplished Singaporean actor, Adrian Pang, had a small role in the movie. He played a medic during the botched rescue attempt. "}{"Title":"Intelligent thriller,  worthy of Le Carré","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is what an intelligent and entertaining Spy movie should look like. And I don't mean the Super-Spy genre with its gadgets and sly wit. In contrary. This is a very clever plot using many time and space spanning scenes. In short it revolves around a young CIA agent (Pitt) who tries to rescue his one time asset and then beloved (McCormack) from a Chinese prison. He gets captured and will be executed a few days later. 24 hours before the execution the CIA learns from his capture and, a presidential visit and trade talks ahead, decide to burn the rogue agent. They contact his recruiter and mentor (Redford) to fill them in on the young agent. This he does. Between these flashback scenes the senior agent uses all his wile he gained as a field agent to set his protegé free. The plot twists several times in unexpected ways and the tricks Redford uses in his scheme are simply great. The fine scene from Clear and present danger, where Ford tries to outsmart his fellow deputy director are but a mere faded memory from this scheming. The directing utilizes modern fast paced cutting and editing, but mostly in scenes where there is action. Unlike many other movies using these methods, here it enhances the film instead ruining it (I regret watching the otherwise great movie Man under Fire). Speaking of action, if you expect an action packed spy movie like the fore-mentioned Clear and present danger, you'll be disappointed. The only shooting involves a bunch of soldiers (first Vietcong, later on US Marines) and is only mere background. Most of the suspense is created verbally and the movie is filled to the brim with adrenaline rising suspense. The acting is very strong, especially Redford and Pitt, which seem to have developed a great chemistry. Having worked together before may have helped. But Redford definitely dominates the movie. His scenes are more than intense and when he unpacks his most dangerous weapon, his smile (in the scene when the nasty superior thinks he has nailed Redford) it is most memorable. I think this is one of his strongest acting. Summary If you read and like intelligent thrillers from authors like Forbes, Le Carré or Nichols you might already have devoured this gem of a movie and if not, go and get it. "},{"Title":"A retiring CIA case officer arrives at Langley. His protégé is marked for execution in China. And the clock is Ticking .... and FAST.","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" One of the very best of spy movies that i have seen and I have seen a LOT ... i mean a lot. The soundtrack, the music, the locations, the story line, the acting, the direction, the photography, the whole general feel of the movie is absolutely brilliant. Everything in it is great.Robert Redford and Brad Pitt dominate much of the storyline and i gotta say that they are both amazing in it. And frankly their acting caliber is unquestionable. The story is great and told brilliantly. It moves at such a break neck speed and so coherently that you are captivated.Its Nathan Muir's (ROBERT REDFORD) last day at Langley. He's woken by a friend in HongKong to find out that Tom Bishop (BRAD PITT) his protégé, an agent he trained has landed up in a Chinese Prison and is marked for execution in 24 Hours for being an America spy. With dwindling resources, Time running out, a committee trying to declare Bishop a rogue agent and very skeptical colleagues, Muir has to save Bishop. "},{"Title":"This is how you make them.....","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Robert Redford and Bradd Pitt give fine performances in this spy thriller which exceeds all expectations . A finely carved out plot coupled with solid direction , the movie stands out in all the known departments of film making.An unconventional spy thriller in that almost all the espionage activities are shown in an offhand way having no direct bearing on the main progression of the movie.With a neat little collection of actors and a rather handsome assortment of supporting cast the movie surely captivates one till the last moment. "},{"Title":"Roger Ebert It is not a bad movie, mind you; it's clever and shows  great control of craft, but it doesn't care, and so it's hard for us to  care about.","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is nor a neat nor intelligent movie. It full of clichés and wrong superficialities like the noir like steam-smoke in Berlin (thats more like a gangster-film of the 30s in Chicago or New York), the non-aging Redford, the endless repeated Latin boy singing voice. Have you seen any emotions or development of Bishop? Has he ever said something he thought? Had he ever had an emotional outburst or any emotion that would be appropriate to the situation? Any reflections? Any characterization? Any real conflict? All the way morality did't play any matter, but at the end of the film? That seems sham. Any backgrounds, any pondering?? Everything seems designed only for the goal to have two heroes fighting against a system, which has not even tentatively questioned once; by none of them.Like Frank Lovece from TV-Guide wrote Extremely well-shot espionage thriller that might have worked as an old-fashioned guy's-guy movie if the guys involved had any real, human personality and the espionage were actually thrilling. "},{"Title":"Finally a believable spy film, one that looks 'real'!","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I tend to disagree a little with the critics on this one. Yes, I agree with most that the camera and the editing utilized are a little to 'modern' for my taste as well (they are too hectic), but that doesn't diminish the overall value of this motion picture.So why did I find this film to be good? Well, mainly because it is very realistic (except for the ending, but you can't have everything). It pictures world events and the operatives in them as they are, crude and ruthless. Decisions are made based only on interest, as is the case in real life. Robert Redford does an excellent job of portraying an experienced (read cynical) CIA operative who doesn't hesitate to use people and play with their lives whenever necessary (again, as is the case in real life, because spying is a brutal and unforgiving trade where only the strongest survive, it's not a charity where manuals need to be followed to the letter like most seem to think nowadays - no wonder the results of the western intelligence agencies are so pitiful recently).Judging from the reviews and user ratings though, for most of the movie-going public this realism was a big drawback, because people do not want to accept cruel truths nowadays, they do not want to accept the fact that in order to be free someone has to do the dirty work for them, they just want everything in life to be neat and spotless, in other words, politically correct. Well, this movie is everything but that, and that's why I liked it. "},{"Title":"Intentionally dirty","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tom Bishop, a US spy, has been captured while trying to infiltrate a prison in China. His mentor and man who trained him, Nathan Muir, is called in urgently to work (it is his last day before retirement) to help unravel a potentially volatile international situation. During all of this Muir thinks back to the days when he trained Bishop and how he turned a soldier who fought with guns in the battlefield into a soldier who fights with wits and deception.Many people seemed to pan this film and it didn't perform well at the box office, but it is nonetheless an engaging thriller. It is perhaps the fact that this is not an action movie as many were led to believe as the word spy in this movie is much different than say James Bond. The approach here seems like a story out of Robert Ludlum's books with movie based more on the characters and plotting rather than all out spectacle. It shows international espionage in a way that it probably is in real life. A web of deception, lies, trickery, with bursts of violence here and there. Also, suit with that point, the world of espionage isn't really all that glorious. Especially when you take into account that the heroes are, among other things, assassins. They work for a government, they have their personal issues like any other person, but they are essentially to do some very dirty work. Not the most respectable type of human beings, but that's the point. Spywork is dirty work. However, the ending rings of Hollywood more than the rest of the movie would like it to.Also Tony Scott's likeness for visual experimentation seems to have started around here. It is not quite as insane as Domino, but the constant flashbacks and themes of deception are played out nicely under Scott's often hectic direction. --- 8/10Rated R for violence and profanity "},{"Title":"Intelligent action film - one of my favorites","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film does so many things right. It is not easy to follow, but I've seen it three times now and each time it gets better because the plot is so tight, and the performances are so realistic and intense. There is lots of witty dialogue, but it doesn't come off as trying too hard because it's all consistent with the way the characters are developed.I guess you either like Tony Scott's cinematic style or you don't. Unlike other favorites of mine he has done, like True Romance and Crimson Tide, this movie is told in a non-linear way - i.e. lots of flashbacks. But the thing this movie does that makes it so effective is keep a basic central story line - a CIA home office inquiry into a rogue operation - going, while around it, in flashbacks, we see the development of the two central characters in several sub-stories leading up to the present day situation. Sound confusing. Okay, it is. But for those who enjoy being challenged in movies like The Usual Suspect, it is very satisfying.So sit back, pay attention, and don't get discouraged. It's a wonderful, intelligent action movie, and it will make sense at the end. Oh, and look for David Hemmings who steals each of the few scenes he's in. "},{"Title":"Spying without the usual spying.","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game is a great twist on the usual James Bond type of movies about spies. There are no cool gadgets, no handful of dirty women to sleep with, no amazing cars to drive around. In fact, most of the movie takes place inside an office as Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) tells a story about Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) and himself when they used to do spy stuff together between Vietnam and the collapse of the Berlin Wall.Great plot, interesting turns in it, and both Redford and Pitt play well together. I especially like how Nathan takes Tom under his wing, like a father figure, while he teaches him everything that he knows about being a spy. There is quite a realistic portrayal of the violence and death that is involved with that field of work as well. It's not as glamorous and cool as most movies make it out to be.My only complaint about the movie is the fact that Bishop, who supposedly serves as a sniper in Vietnam under the command of Muir, looks exactly the same age, forty years later, during the current event timing of the movie. He doesn't age at all and it was very noticeable and annoying while I was viewing the film.Oh, not sure what was edited out for the TV version, other than some language, but the original has language and content to make it R-rated, FYI. The TV version wasn't bothersome at all. "},{"Title":"possibly the best American spy movie made","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For me, the key to a great spy movie is an exploration of the moral ambiguity of spying. The BBC dramatizations of the John LeCarre / George Smiley novels are the epitome of this genre. Spy Game is about as close as an American movie has gotten. It's a little faster paced; a little more action adventure; a little more high tech. But at its heart, it asks why be a spy? is it worth it? Brad Pitt does fine. Robert Redford is wonderful. The aging pretty boy actor with talent as a mentor for the up and coming pretty boy actor with talent is an unavoidable subtext to the spy handling spy plot of the movie. And the pacing of Tony Scott's direction keeps the suspense alive throughout a layered script that explores personality as much as it moves the story along. Top notch all the way. "},{"Title":"Intelliegence, confusion and tragedy!!!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tony Scotts quick cut shorts and varying camera speeds are a Trademark of his movies. It suits nicely to stories like Spy Game!!! He tells the story in a fast manner but with more incidences which sometimes bores us.I always felt more scenes like training Brad Pitt and recruiting him in Vietnam and Germany are just added to fill the frames of Tonys fast moving rolls-) But the fantasy in getting ON last minute by Redford to save his ex-recruit is quite interesting. The subsequent actions add pace to the film and finally when Redford uses his life savings for everything, its too touching.This story paints the inner conscience, the completeness of ones life and feelings of a man for another. And Tony handles this quite nicely. Worth seeing it.My rating 7/10 "}{"Title":"James Bond Step Aside","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I mean I was really impressed with the trailer. I mean these are the two golden boys of Hollywood's two eras. But I didn't realize what a cool movie it turned out to be. I mean this story doesn't just have the bad guys and guns like those other spy movies but it also has depth. That's something pretty hard to pull off in an action flick. But Spy Game can and did and I'm not just talking about the Pitt and McCormack's love story but also the compassion between Redford and Pitt. The two men work fine together and I wouldn't mind see it again. "},{"Title":"Fast Action, Great Scenery, Excellent Acting - Dramatic Ending","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts from a dead stop to 90 mph in the first two minutes. The pace does not let up.  Less High-Tech and more believable than MI-2; Intrique, Plot, Sub-plots and great acting from an ole side kick of Butch Cassidy (Robert Redford).  Better than Last Castle, Brad Pitt does a remarkable job of delivering the emotion of the challenging role.Striking scenery, high intrique, workings of Langley (CIA)with all of the inside back biting and jockeying.  Seat of your chair finale, great ending. Hits a bit close to home with Special Forces friends in Asian theater of operations at this time.  A well spent rainy day adventure.  T. Scott does a consistantly moving job of direction. "},{"Title":"A superbly well crafted and contemporary spy thriller","Date":"18 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tony Scott brings his love of the old school genre of espionage films as Casablanca to the modern and contemporary from everything to his locations in Morocco, to the actors he cast, to the way he framed the shots.Robert Redford proves, true to life, that he is still the best as old school CIA spook Nathan Muir - bringing the superbly well crafted script, character, and dialogue by Michael Frost Beckner to life. Brad Pitt delivers, what in my mind, is one of the best performances of his career. Showing just how good an actor he goes from the cocky, self assured and extremely skilled sniper Tom Bishop to the Tom Bishop, made hard by his experiences and conflicted with his feelings. Catherine McCormack brings the heart to the film as the exact opposite of Bishop and Muir, driven by her feelings.The story is well crafted, with excellent and smart dialogue. Inspired by true to life intelligence operations, Spy Game, is a film that will be as one of the titans of the spy thriller genre ten years from now along with Confessions of a Dangerous Mind and Traitor. "},{"Title":"Just gets better with each viewing.","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" An incredible movie. You've got to watch it over and over to get all the subtleties. Plots and sub-plots. It's not easy to catch all the nuances, but once you do, everything falls in place. Not the best of acting from Redford and Pitt (but seriously, what would you expect?) but they pull off enough chemistry to make this an excellent partnership. There is great drama, an intelligent storyline and a little bit of romance thrown in. I would recommend you buy (and not rent) this movie. Cos it just gets better with each viewing. It's funny how Tony Scott is somehow so inconsistent. I loved Top Gun (at least at the time it came out), and Crimson Tide is one of my all-time favourites. This certainly belongs in the top. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK so it makes me sick as a guy to watch another brad Pitt movie, granted, but this one makes me forget that its Pitt that I'm watching. He does an excellent job of appearing normal and not star struck. Robert Redford is excellent in his ability to draw you into his character and wonder what he is thinking throughout the movie. Redford is even better at appearing smart and witty than he was in 3 Days of The Condor. Both actors have charm and a flare for making simple situations more complex witch adds depth to the movie.The flow of the movie is smooth and has a lot of dialog witch i love. The Double-Story-Simultianity is very smart and entertaining- the story between Brad Pitt's and Redford's past, and the current story line of Redford working against the government and trying to save Pitt from execution. The plot isn't spoon fed to you, so it leaves you guessing as to what is going on and which way the movie will go but at the same time it gives you enough information that you don't ever get confused.The cinematography is very entertaining and not boring. The acting of the government employees was excellent and very believable. The scenes of Redford talking with the officials is very smart and captivating as you try and figure out what is going on in the heads of all involved.Over all this movie has good light action, good plot, smart and entertaining actors, smart dialog and good cinematography. If you like spy, government conspiracy, light action, action-drama movies, Brad Pitt and Robert Redford, than check out this great film. "},{"Title":"A rare, intelligent film","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I think someone called this an intellectual action film, and that description fits it. It is the first film I've seen where dialogue alone kept me breathlessly waiting to discover what happens next. I first came upon this film on a cable channel when it had been on for about 10 minutes. There was Redford sitting at that table with his CIA confederates, and I could tell this was going to be a very different kind of movie. I knew that I would have to follow every word spoken. So, I shut it off, checked when it would be on again, which was three hours later, and watched it from the beginning. It's that kind of story line; you can't afford to miss the nuances that accompany the dialogue.I thought it was fantastic, and watched it again the next night. And if I ever break down and buy a DVD player, it will be the first film I purchase. Operation Dinner Out. "},{"Title":"Why I gave this one a 10","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's going to be short, because I won't reach a hundred words, including this opening. I like Spy Game not because of the music or a single theme or character, neither is it the story by itself or the way it is spread before us. It's not (just) the cast or the way the play in this movies (and lest us forget what they do in other movies). It's not even the way it all rhymes together into something great, entertaining and intriguing. Its because ALL of the above combined.Thanks for reading. I enjoyed writing it. "},{"Title":"Everybody Loses in This Game- A Vanity Piece, Ridiculous and Inane","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The most interesting and remarkable part of Spy Game is the opportunity to observe how much Brad Pitt resembles Robert Redford in his (much) younger days.  The rest is a fatuous and banal waste of time (I saw it on a transcontinental flight and had no choice but to suffer through it).The movie seems to have been thrown together simply as a vanity piece for Mr. Redford, who walks through the very familiar role of the renegade CIA man, reluctantly forced into doing good and outsmarting the bad guys (at the CIA of course).  Banal devices such as locations and times printed across the bottom of the screen to accompanying urgent typewriter sound effects cannot save this B Movie from the drastic holes in its plot, and outrageously far-fetched scenarios.  Mr. Redford's character looks remarkably the same in scenes supposed to be thirty years apart (Vietnam in the late '60s and ultimately during his final days before retirement from the CIA in the '90s).  Brad Pitt's character does not appear to age at all from a young sergeant in Vietnam (about 20 years old) to a CIA contact employee who would thus be at least in his mid-forties during the film's setting in the 1990's. The film's producers and directors seem to be of the opinion that movie fans there to see poster-boys Redford and Pitt will overlook the preposterously flimsy storyline, and lack of any coherent plot.  Pitt's character's training as a cold war CIA operative appears to consist of nothing more challenging than a series of fraternity initiation pranks (I want to see you get in that building and standing on that balcony in fifteen minutes).  Redford's tweed-jacketed CIA Far East analyst strolls through the CIA headquarters making secret calls on his cell phone on his last day at work and cleverly arranges for an armed attack inside of a foreign country with a hand forged paper(apparently without any consequences or international reprecussions) to serve his own purposes. (Remember how agitated the Chinese got when one of their jets crashed into that US surveillance plane?  What do you think they'd do if armed helicopters and soldiers attacked an installation well within Chinese territory?) The ostensible romance between Pitt's character and an English social worker is pivitol to the plot, but is barely addressed.  Poorly conceived, and badly written, Spy Game is as idiotic as it is inept. "},{"Title":"A strong film, both character wise, and plot wise.","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" From Tony Scott, the director of Crimson Tide, True Romance and Top Gun, comes Spy Game, a character driven thriller which is more of a friendship story than anything else.Robert Redford stars as Nathan Muir, a mid-level CIA operative, who on the day of his retirement, discovers that his old protegè Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) has been captured and imprisoned in China on the charge of espionage. Muir assumes that Bishop will be claimed by the US and returned home safely, but that is not the case, as the US is in a pivotal time in Chinese relations and claiming Bishop as their own would strain ties with the Chinese government, so the CIA headmen decide to leave Bishop to his fate. Muir resolves himself to save his friend, at whatever cost. While Muir tries to deceive his colleagues, we are shown in flashback how Muir and Bishop became allies and then friends through their covert operations, and about the woman who came between them.A complex plot? No, not really, the movie explains it all at a perfectly understandable pace. The film is mostly a spy thriller, and most of the action scenes are shown in flashback. They are still fantastic when they do come around though, and probably most importantly, you don't feel your backside numb in between them, as the drama and deceit featured between is nearly just as exciting, which is always a plus.The direction by Tony Scott is top notch, as is the cinematography and the music by Harry Gregson-Williams, who delivers a score which is easily his best. Redford and Pitt both excel in their roles, and are well supported by Stephen Dillane and Catherine McCormack.Probably the best aspect of this film is way it bounces back and forth in time to showing Muir and Bishop's up and down relationship. We start in Vietnam and go all the way up to 1990, and it is handled beautifully. Yet people still seem determined to pick this film apart for plot holes. Strange.All in all, it's a well crafted, stylish and engaging drama-thriller, with some memorable moments, great directing, good acting, and a fabulous score.Underrated here on IMDb. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Slick entertainment","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game is an entertaining enough espionage thriller helmed by action film director Tony Scott who has made some very polished films in the past. Here, an aging Robert Redford is appropriately cast as the mentor to Brad Pitt, or Burapi as the Japanese call him, Redford's star field agent. When I was watching this film I got the impression that the CIA, undoubtedly the preeminent espionage organization on the planet, was being glorified for its interference in foreign conflicts. I couldn't help but remember Benjamin Franklin advising his fellow Republicans to stay out of conflicts that do not threaten America's vital interests. Paraphrasing, he said interference in affairs that do not concern us would be the bane of our Republic. "}{"Title":"Great spy flick...","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, maybe I'm naive, or stupid, or gullible, or all three, but I never figure it out until the end, when the movie tells me what's been going on. Consequently, I tend to enjoy movies like this, movies that give my brain enough to think about without trying to figure out what the characters are going to do.Visually, it's very stimulating, definitely one of Tony Scott's better achievements. Different regions of the world look different, which is great. The script is good, even in the hands of two generations of Hollywood pretty boys (Redford & Pitt--actually, they're both pretty good, when they're at their best, like in this movie). The whole movie has that turn-of-the-millennium style, which is getting old by now but felt fresh and interesting when this movie came out.All in all, the movie is nothing mind blowing, but it's an example of the Hollywood system gone right. It's got a great story (which Hollywood does well, when it tries) with charismatic movie stars playing roles that need charisma. And it's a great American myth--Messrs. Redford and Pitt are mavericks in this movie, mavericks who ultimately betray their country in the name of friendship. Great stuff. I highly recommend this movie.  "},{"Title":"Slick but effective espionage thriller.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Despite some rather unbelievable parts, this is a spy yarn that holds together pretty well. There's nothing you haven't seen before in other films of this genre, but there's enough subterfuge and daring-do to hold up the interest level. Robert Redford and Brad Pitt play CIA operatives, Redford the jaded older mentor and Pitt the younger more impulsive wild card. The film fractures a bit as it tracks their somewhat tempestuous relationship through Vietnam, Berlin and Beirut (supposedly 20 years in a high stress job and they didn't seem to age!) but then pulls back together at the end. The film has some interesting looks into the moral gray area that is espionage. (Rating 7 out of 10)  "},{"Title":"A Spy Who Came In From the Cold for the 21st Century","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film shows one of the last of the HUMINT handlers (human intelligence, that which comes from people) in CIA retiring, and trying to pull a Joe out of jam as his last act.  The political infighting and sniping that is almost everything that happens at Langley accurately shows how badly CIA has deteriorated from the peak of it's powers in the 1960s. By the time this film takes place (ca 1991) CIA is mostly concerned with not getting caught in the same room as an opinion (which is easy with satellite pictures and signal intercepts since they can be interpreted in so many ways), and messy HUMINT people like Muir and Bishop (that can verify their other sources) are viewed as dangerous dinosaurs.  Small wonder then that on 9/11 CIA was busy making diversity quilts, having been forbidden to use foreign agents by Willie Jeff two years before, and fact-found into impotence by nearly twenty years of Congressional interference into matters they knew nothing about.The time line in the film is all screwed up (the last US combat troops pulled out of Vietnam by 1973), but we've seen a lot worse (like The English Patient).  Redford is better than average (here he actually tried to fill a role, not make a statement).  Pitt is showing some more versatility.  Like most Redford movies it's just a little too long, but not as bad as Horse Whisperer or a few others. "},{"Title":"The Agency goes all-star and it works","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The similarity between this film and the US TV show The Agency is unmistakable.  The camera shots, the editing, even color seems to be taken right out of the TV series.  Considering that both are stories about the CIA, it makes one wonder what exactly is going on.  Very spooky.Which is not to say that it is a poor movie.  Both Robert Redford and Brad Pitt make it a fine action drama.  The story is about the long association between an old hand in the CIA and his young recruit.  The old hand is on his last day before retirement and comes to work hearing that his associate is in deep trouble.  He spends the day confronting the association as he finds that the young recruit has enmeshed himself in some problems with the CIA as well.Robert Redford is brazenly wizened as the retiring CIA case officer.  Brad Pitt is nicely subdued as the rather conservative Vietnam veteran recruit.  The plot is slightly on the romantic side in much the same way that The Agency became rather troubled by contemporary political soap opera. "},{"Title":"Good but very long!!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you are into the espionage movies, Spy Game would be a good one to see. It goes into some details of how the C.I.A. really works and some of the secrets behind it.  It is a very fast paced movie which makes you pay attention the whole time. But with Robert Redford as Nathan Muir, a C.I.A. agent on his last day, and Brad Pitt as Tom Bishop, one of the very best the C.I.A. has, it isn't that hard to pay attention to the 2 hour movie. Robert Redford trained Pitt to become a very good agent and put him under his wing.  With that came a friendship between them that neither ever forgot.  Redford is notified that Pitt had been captured in a foreign country trying to pull off a prison break.  Redford now has 24 hours to find a way to get Pitt out, either by lying, stealing, or manipulating, he must do it.  It being Redford's last day on the job, he is risking it all to save a friend he dearly loves that he has lost contact with. Within the two hours, you will notice the love that has grown between the two.  When Redford gets his first glimpse of Pitt in a Vietnam camp, you can see the sparks almost right away.  Robert notices that Pitt is all by himself and that he volunteered for the Army.  Redford figures that he isn't going to be any good but is shortly proven wrong which really changes his mind about Pitt.  In one special scene, Redford is willing to do anything to save his dear friend.  Just by his facial expressions, you will be able to tell that there defiantly is some love between the two friends.  All of the friendship being displayed through out the movie reminds me of Proof of Life. One thing that really caught my eye in this movie was defiantly the lighting.  When Tony Scott (Director) wants you to notice the friendship between Redford and Pitt, he will make it known with the lighting.  When first meet in Vietnam, Pitt enters the tent and sees Redford sitting there. Scott perfectly places a halo effect on Pitt to make sure that we realize there is something there.  He does this many times and makes it certain that we take notice to this. All in all, this film is an okay movie that must be seen.  After coming out of it, you will notice that a friendship is a strong bond that can withstand anything that is thrown at it.  "},{"Title":"Don't scrutinize the plot","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tony Scott possesses the art of gripping you throughout his films. But AFTERWARDS you realize they are an unbelievable mixture of improbabilities , impossibilities, and non-explanations. Such was the case with the nevertheless highly-entertaining ENEMY OF THE STATE, such is the case here too. The story is set forth in the 1990's, on Robert Redford ' s retirement day from the CIA, with a lot of flashbacks over a period of some 15 years. Redford was 63 at the time of the shooting, and is suitably wrinkled for the later period; but the make-up department apparently found it impossible to make him look younger therefore he does not age one day during all the flashbacks, when he consistently looks too old. He has retained his magnetism, though, while Pitt is better than his usual so-so level. Catherine McCormack is good, but surprisingly drawn, in an underdeveloped part, and Marianne Jean-Baptiste shines as Redford's secretary. My acting kudos however go to the two Langley interrogators, accomplished Stephen Dillane and too-seldom-seen-on-the-big-screen impressive Larry Bryggman "},{"Title":"Great acting, great directing...","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When i saw who the director was of Spy Game, Tony Scott (director of Top Gun and Days Of Thunder), i was a bit hesitant about watching this movie. However, once the movie was over i was quite impressed. First of all, I loved the way he structured the movie on an investigation around Brad Pitt's character and Robert Redford's character going around CIA politics to save his former partner. Throughout the movie, Brad Pitt and Robert Redford each have their own defining moments and nobody seems to steal the show. I loved the way Robert Redford's character seems so mysterious to everyone, including the CIA, some people say that this is poor character development, however, i believe it is another way to show a character trait of a CIA agent. Tony Scott did wonderful job with the camera shots, especially when Robert Redford and Brad Pitt are talking on the roof. The aerial shot was just so incredible, particularly when he mixed the aerial camera and the camera on the roof itself which gave the movie a certain style that i have never seen before. That one scene struck me because you could see the beautiful architecture of Germany without distancing yourself from the story. By far this is Tony Scott's best movie! "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is one of my favourite movies of the last year. It was the only film I really enjoyed watching when I went to the movies, unlike other movies recently released, Spy Game really topped them. You see the main characters Redford and Pitt develope thru the movie. Redford tells the story to a bunch off other guys,you see the story in a lot of flashbacks. The acting in the film is superior, and the story line is allright. Finally a film worth watching these days. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one great espionage movie. Very realistic, fantastic screenplay, great plot... Superb filming... it has it all! And one of the best things it's not another american propaganda movie. It shows the bad things of the CIA etc etcin one word GREAT MOVIE! "},{"Title":"SPY GAME is like a chess game, intriguing way to pass the time, but not a fond memory.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  INCLUDES POSSIBLE SPOILERSOn his last day with the CIA, an agent played by Robert Redford, becomes embroiled in an international incident involving a spy named Bishop (for some reason, always an unlucky name in movies) who he trained years ago.Over the years, I do think Redford has shown himself to be a very poor (albeit lucky) spy. You'd think he'd lie in wait for the baddies, or at least learn to keep his important files in a safe deposit box or booby trap his office. I mean in 3 Days of the Condor they ransack his office, steal files, and kill his associates... In Sneakers they do it again... at least in Spy Game they don't kill anyone when they ransack his office.Of course there is a lot of Fantasy in this take on the CIA... (we all know the CIA doesn't have all it's internal phones bugged, or know unimportant details about it's long time agents - like whether or not they're married and to whom! NAH, they wouldn't know about that stuff). As usual, anyone carrying an AK can't hit the broadside of a barn (or two guys in the open on top of a hill from a helicopter - or a car in the middle of a street from an overlooking building, etc.).On the whole, the film is a pretty good thriller of the story-told-in-flashback style. The story is both a genre picture, and a commentary on the business of spying not dissimilar to the disenfranchised cold war Hitchcockian movies of the French New Wave, though Spy Game never really elevates much beyond the level of solid genre film.While both Redford and Pitt turn in fine performances, the thrills never reach the heights of others of it's type (check out the 80s remake of The Big Clock called No Way Out for a more thrilling take on Washington intrigue). All in all, Spy Game is enjoyable but nothing more. "}{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good storyline. All the excitement, love and angst you would need in a film. Redford is at his best, a step ahead of them all! Pitt delivers as well, looking good in every scene! I recognized Catherine McCormack immediately (from Braveheart). Great movie. Watch it! "},{"Title":"Taut spy thriller","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Despite a few inconsistencies and contrivances, Spy Games is one of the better espionage films to hit the streets in quite some time.  The story is intelligent, the action is brisk and the suspense taut.Tony Scott orchestrates the project well, perhaps overdoing the musical element a bit, but pacing well and creating an effective weave between flashbacks and current day events.  Yet, there are a couple of areas that bothered me.  First, Muir (Robert Redford) was consistently developed throughout the film to be a hardened leader, always looking at the big picture and following the imperative regardless of the human cost.  So, his rogue operation to save Bishop is completely out of character.  Not only is it difficult to believe that the CIA would have been fooled by some of his deceptions, it is hard to swallow the fact that he would have risked everything to pursue a rescue that was antithetical to his training, beliefs and personality.  It is also difficult to understand how Bishop was allowed to stay in the field, given his penchant for disobeying orders and his continual development of emotional attachments to his various human assets.  Such recklessness would never have been tolerated, because it would have endangered him, the assets, and would have potentially compromised whatever mission he was working on.  However, I suppose I need to cut the writers a little slack or otherwise there would have been no story.Robert Redford turns in an excellent performance, giving Muir a very hard edge and cunning mind.  Brad Pitt proves to be an effective action hero.  This is the kind of role in which Pitt shines, playing the dark, rebellious character that lives by his own code and gives in to no one.  Catherine McCormack also delivers a credible performance as the humanitarian aid worker playing both sides of the street to get supplies for the disadvantaged. Action lovers will enjoy this film as will those who like a mentally challenging story.  I rated it 8/10.   "},{"Title":"Ok, did I miss something&#133;.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game had all the potential to be a really good movie for me and for the most part it was. The acting was fine, the story was intriguing, the pace was a little slow at times, but that's ok with me. The over all production was fine. The thing that made this movie disappointing for me was that I was asked to believe that Brad Pitt's character served in Viet Nam&#133; and never aged. The story is about a spy who gets caught in a foreign country and the U.S. government is reluctant to rectify the situation in any acceptable manner. Robert Redford plays a C.I.A. agent on his last day before retirement. He gets the news that his friend/spy is in trouble and starts to gather information on what, if anything, is being done to attempt a rescue. When he finds out that the government is stalling, Redford starts to pull some strings of his own to get the rescue ball rolling. That's all fine and good except that the two characters Redford's and Pitt's were supposed to have met in 1975 during the close of the war in Viet Nam. And that would be ok if Brad Pitt looked anything like what Robert Redford does now. I mean really, if you want to tell a story and make it somewhat believable, at the very least throw a little make-up on an actor so that it looks like you TRIED to make it look like nearly thirty years have gone by. If you don't mind that kind of thing missing in a movie you might really like this. The telling of the story is really quite good. I really wanted to like Spy Game and it really could have been a fine movie experience for me but that age discrepancy kept me from really sitting back and enjoying myself. Oh well&#133;another time, another movie perhaps. That's my take. What's yours?  "},{"Title":"Barely OK, but at times very goofy and implausible.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  **Spoiler Alert (not really, nothing to spoil)**I had high hopes for Spy Game but the opening scene was a joke. I try not to pick apart a fictional drama-action movie, but man, they made it really hard. At times during the movie my wife and I would just look at each other and say, WTF?. Case in point Opening scene, our boy Brad pops a few pills in his mouth, rubs some gel on his hands, palms an electrified fence, blows a breaker, fakes death by electrocution, and then manages to spring a prisoner out of a maximum security jail...all within 6 min.? Huh? I know this is fiction and the film is entitled to some creative license and perhaps, departure from reality, but this was a joke! The other thing that was WAY over the line was Brad Pitt as a hotshot sniper in the Vietnam War. Huh?!?! I'm the same age as Brad Pitt, both born in '63. I don't know about him, but in 1975 I was in Jr. High trying to cop a feel, he apparently was overseas in the bush, 40 clicks outside of Saigon sniping high ranking Vietnamese Generals. Wow. And then in later scenes, as the years go by, he looks even younger!?! In the present scenes, I'm supposed to believe this guy is in his late 40's? It blew my mind. A little makeup isn't going to hurt you, pal. Do it for the film. LOL. Also, Robbie Redford looks like a mummy in the Vietnam shots, and he somehow also seems to look YOUNGER as the years go by! Did these guys run into Ponce De Leon? I'm tired so I won't go into the many other things that bugged me. Overall, it was a semi-decent movie that was in dire need of an editor/director that should have cut about 20-25 minutes of useless footage. Dragged it on, big time! Redford/Pitt did a decent job. The best scenes were with Redford making his superiors look like bungholes. Which begs the question...if Redford's character is such a genius spy-guy, why isn't he running the show over there at his CIA division? Also, he gives up his life savings to knock out the power on some Chinese island for 30 min.?? Why didn't he just let Commander Willy or whatever his name was just use an F-16 to blow out the power plant? And since when does the director of the CIA give orders for missions involving the Armed Forces? I could be wrong about that, but I don't think so. Man, this movie was lame!  "},{"Title":"Top notch thriller which takes you for a nice ride","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Excellent thriller with new millennium A-list star Brad Pitt teaming with 70's A-lister Robert Redford (smartly casted in a 'Buddy picture' after Pitt took direction from Redford in his memorable yet under-appreciated A River Runs Through it from 1994) in an entertaining spy film directed by action-obsessed Tony Scott which will have you at times on the edge of your seat. Scott rewards his action hungry audience in calculated doses as the picture is laced with lots of intrigue, and second guessing including a clever use of flashback sequences for additional suspense to this international thriller. Catherine McCormack is appealing as the love interest for Pitt's character which goes beyond obligatory since the joining of the two conflicts with his mentor's guidelines for espionage survival. The chemistry of all the players along with Scott's exciting action input make this an above average Pitt/Redford 'Buddy flick'. "},{"Title":"It lacked something. A cohesive ending.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  *Spoilers ahead*.Good movie. Intelligent dialogue, interesting timeline, good overall. BUT...Ah, the ending. It is lacking. It would take a major leap of faith to believe that, after forging documents, lying and generally deceiving his superiors, the main character was able to leave the building unscathed.Other than that, good film. But it could have been better. "},{"Title":"Brain dead entertainment.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I won't bother recounting the plot again.  This movie is 90% style, 10% substance.  If you like that sort of thing, fine.   Personally I was shagged out by Tony Scott's directorial pyrotechnics before the end of the first reel. The performances are just OK.  Redford plays a stock-standard Redford character.  Ditto for Pitt.  No effort involved. Both just cruise along. But I enjoyed Stephen Dillane's performance as the sleazy prototype of the new generation CIA operative.  I quite liked the format of the movie - a series of sub-stories cobbled together through the device of an integrating, underlying plot-line.  Problem is, the whole thing is incoherent and does not stand up to even the most superficial critical analysis.  If you like this sort of thing and you've got nothing better to do, fine.  Otherwise, forget it.   "},{"Title":"Not the usual American gungho effort","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   Told in flashback, Spy Game centres on the relationship between cynical senior CIA operative Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) and his protegé Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt). The movie begins almost at the end with the capture of Bishop following a failed rescue mission in a Chinese prison. This sparks a crisis between the USA and China and, as tensions escalate between the two superpowers, Muir is forced to reveal all he knows about Bishop to a CIA committee. From their early days together in Vietnam to Beirut where Bishop's relationship with a mysterious aid worker, Elizabeth Hadley (Catherine McCormack) leads ultimately to his capture in China. On the final day before his retirement, Muir must call upon all of his negotiating skills and intimate knowledge of the inner workings of the CIA to find a way to free Bishop before he is executed. Although Redford and Pitt receive equal billing, this is really Redford's movie. He is the focus for the complex plot and Pitt appears mostly in flashback. Redford is the best he has been in many years and is well cast as the ageing CIA warhorse who has seen it all and done it all. Pitt is reliably good but does appear as if he wishes that his character had a little more to do. Still, it's a very adult movie with a top-notch cast. Pitt must be one of the hardest working actors in Hollywood. He has appeared in what seems like every movie in the past year or so, including Snatch, The Mexican and Ocean's Eleven. Tony Scott (Top Gun, Days of Thunder of Thunder) confidently handles the complex plot and the subtle relationships within the CIA as the men at the top struggle for power. Ultimately Spy Game shows the battle between loyalty, friendship and, yes, love against betrayal and treachery. Muir attempts to make up for a lifetime of politically motivated deception and killing with a final act of selflessness. He uses his retirement money to attempt the near impossible rescue of Bishop from the Chinese prison where the US Government seems determined to abandon him. One of the main lapses of Spy Game is when Redford is supposed to be 25 years younger in a flashback segment in Vietnam. It's a sad fact that no amount of makeup, aviator sunglasses and 70s-style sideburns can disguise the fact that he looks just as craggy as he does in the present day. The camerawork uses the still-trendy 'wobblycam'. It probably suits the journalistic, there-as-it-happens style, but after a couple of hours, it's a bit hard to take. Spy Game is an above-average spy thriller that isn't the usual American gungho view of war and instead attempts to uncover the behind-the-scenes manoeuvring and backstabbing within the CIA as it intervenes in various world conflicts. Rated 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good movie, will see it again","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Redford is great in this. Someone swept up by circumstances into something he doesn't want to be involved in and surrounded by people that don't understand the rules of the Game.  I think this will end up with the same cult following as Three Days of the Condor.  It has the same feeling to it.  Unfortunately it has not had any staying power at the box office. I will see it again in a theater if possible and get the DVD as soon as its released. "},{"Title":"Excellent spy thriller","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent movie.  Not the best of the year, but well written, tightly edited and well paced.  The setup is 1991 with Redford talking in well paced and edited flashbacks about events from 1975 to 1991 involving the recruitment and training of CIA agents.  Worth seeing.Especially notable is the depiction of the US deference to Mainland China. China has some very successful and bright, talented people, along with huge numbers of working poor who suffer under the yoke of a nominally communist (unless capitalism suits their bottom line) government.  America's utter dependenace on low priced goods from China has colored our foreign and domestic policy.  In order to keep the goods flowing, we ignore China's many human rights violations, an abusive labor climate that we made illegal at the turn of the LAST century, their border incursions, their contest of the Spratly Islands, their communism, their repressive laws, their shocking justice system, their nuclear weapons and their avowed interest to have enough ships and planes to move a MILLION man army anywhere in the world it wants by 2005.  We treat them with kid gloves, give them most favored nation status for trade and ram them into the WTO, all for the sake of cheap goods to keep our discount stores and electronics firms rolling in profit.In 1927, US Marines invaded Guatemala in order to protect the interests of United Fruit.  Foreign policy was bent to the will of the industrial rich to ensure a flow of goods so they could keep making money. I believe that with China, it will not be US invading THEM, but rather the reverse.Along with the exploration of this bit of politics, Spy Games is also notable for its characters underhanded dealings with one another. Who watches the watchmen?  I thought the script was well written, and well thought out.The sets and locations, Viet Nam, Berlin, Beirut, etc were excellently put together and well filmed.  There was a senes of realism and the chaos of an embattled city like Beirut was well shown.  I thought the editing of the film between the flashbacks and the present were strikingly well handled, and showed that American viewers really CAN handle non linear plot lines if they are handled correctly.Like several recent films, at two hours plus, this one went a bit long, but not too long.  I was keyed up for most of the film, and it never seemed to drag.  The film just consumed a lot of time with the detail, which works for this film.  With a lesser script, the film could well have dragged.Its a go see.  Not a must see, but if you need a good spy thriller about now, and were as let down as I was by Tailor of Panama (what a dud) then go catch this one before it exfiltrates. "}{"Title":"Slick spy thriller!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Games is a slick, if improbable, thriller. The story is told in real time, with flashbacks to fill in the details of Robert Redford's and Brad Pitt's connection in the game of espionage. The flashbacks prove insightful and absorbing. However, it would have been interesting to see a few more of their international cloak and dagger escapades, but that isn't possible since Redford is working behind the scenes on his very last day as a CIA case officer. As he relates these tales to his colleagues, he's actually working against them since they're working against his old comrade in arms. This is ironic since Redford's character said to Pitt in an early flashback to never help another; only look out for yourself. Given that these flashbacks are the product of Redford's intentional bias, it's likely that he never truly believed this as he was, in fact, doing his best to help Pitt in his own way. How Redford goes about helping Pitt's character is one of the most intriguing aspects of the film. While improbable, it's still fascinating. Redford shows he can still act a great part since we know from his facial expressions that he's thinking four different ways simultaneously. This is what makes the film so absorbing. It would have been interesting to know more about what Pitt's character had done since parting ways with Redford's so many years ago. We have an idea of what brought him to China, but we don't know exactly what role, or to what extent, Redford's character played in his being there or the contacts he obtained once he got there. But no matter. What ensues is an absorbing spy thriller, certainly on par with Redford's Three Days of the Condor which is the antithesis of Spy Game. In the former Redford played an innocent who had to learn the spy game quickly -- under the unexpected tutelage of a more experienced spy/assassin played by Max Von Sydow who was actually out to eliminate Redford's character. However, in Spy Game Redford's character exhibits all of the knowledge a seasoned CIA operative requires and exercises his knowledge expertly without any need for a tutor. The dichotomy of the two films makes Spy Game just as interesting to watch... View it if you like a good espionage thriller. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Engaging spy thriller from start to finish","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPY GAME, the latest film from veteran director Tony Scott (CRIMSON TIDE, ENEMY OF THE STATE, and the modern classic TOP GUN) and screenwriter Michael Frost Beckner (who wrote the so-so SNIPER and the horrible CUTTHROAT ISLAND), is one of the best spy films in recent years. Scott shies away from full-blown action here, instead building tension through longtime CIA operative Nathan Muir's (aptly played by Robert Redford) assessment of an old pupil, Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt).Bishop, recently (the film, however, is set in 1991) imprisoned after a failed mission, is due to be executed at 8 a.m. EST. Muir is called upon to give intimate details of Bishop's life to, among others, CIA suits Troy Folger (Larry Bryggman, late of DIE HARD WITH A VENGEANCE) and Charles Harker (Stephen Dillane), Muir's main adversary. Why so important? The United States and China are due for trade talks the very day Bishop is to be executed.Muir and Bishop's relationship is detailed in flashbacks, from their first meeting in Vietnam in the early 1970s, where Bishop, fresh out of Hemet, California, is a rookie sniper with three confirmed kills. After Bishop survives Vietnam, he moves on to West Germany as a clerk, until Muir, in a chance meeting, decides to introduce Bishop into the world of espionage. In a fine touch, Bishop learns from the wise Muir in a cornucopia of images.Early on, Bishop learns the thin line between the world of espionage and real life during a mission in Berlin. Muir later tells him on a rooftop, If you go off the reservation, I won't come after you. As the film moves on, however, Muir learns that Bishop may not be worthwhile to the CIA, and may not be rescued, thereby enlisting the help of his secretary, Gladys (Marianne Jean-Baptiste), friend Harry Duncan (David Hemmings), and others to save his friend's life. The real story lies in 1985 Beirut, when Bishop, undercover as a photographer, meets Elizabeth Hadley (Catherine McCormack), a Londoner working as a relief worker in the wartorn city. Though their relationship is never truly founded as we would like, this is Muir's story and not Bishop's. This, however, ultimately hurts any true growth of Bishop's character. Redford, then, makes Muir shine. It is in Beirut, therefore, that makes Muir change his mind about saving Bishop.The flashbacks, especially Vietnam and Beirut, are wonderfully captured on film by cinematographer Daniel Mindel (who also did Scott's ENEMY OF THE STATE). Scott fleshes out all the supporting characters nicely, though, yes, this is Redford's film. Highly recommended to those who enjoy the likes of Tom Clancy. 8/10NOTE As a San Diego Padres fan, I must point out that there is a goof in the film (I have notified IMDb of this also). In Beirut in 1985, Bishop, from Hemet, California, near Riverside, is wearing the blue San Diego Padres baseball cap with white and orange lettering. This is an anachronism the Padres still wore their brown and yellow uniforms in 1985, and didn't replace them with the blue, white, and sometimes gray uniforms until new ownership in 1990. The brown and yellow cap is not hard to find. "},{"Title":"Redford's age shows.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford performance is adequate but his age shows, he's not a sex symbol as he once was when he was younger.  It's almost starts to be painful to watch Redford doing this movie as opposed to when he was in Three Days of the Condor.  Brad Pitt does a decent performance in his character role. "},{"Title":"...and the sountrack rocks, too!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My generation grew up playing one Spy Game or another.  It was the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis and Francis Gary Powers.  Spys were cool.  One of the first grown up films I saw was Dr. No.  My favorite TV shows were I Spy and Mission Impossible.  It's no wonder that I loved this movie. Of course, having Ordinary Bob Redford (another Utah resident) in the lead role didn't hurt.  And having Brad I've loved his work since 'Seven' Pitt in the co-lead spot made it even better.  The script was fun, the dialogue tight and the cinematography was superb.  I'm more than thankful that there are directors and producers around who are willing to let a story evolve and expand.  The hack critics are all saying that is was convoluted and impossible.  Funny, haven't read that complaint about the Harry Potter flick.  Finally, the Harry Gregson-Williams score will have my foot tapping for days.  Great flick! "},{"Title":"Best Movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Clever plotting, terrific screenwriting, great filming, good music, i enjoyed this more than i expected and i expected a lot. Brad Pitt and Robert Redford must have started salivating the minute they saw this script. I rarely get this jazzed up about movies anymore.But all the angles came together in this one, the chemistry, the casting, the filming and the story A Terrific film. "},{"Title":"The smartest film in a long time","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great movie. The acting was solid, the action scenes were well made and the suspense was fantastic. If you are looking for a plain out good movie then go see this one. It will keep your attention and never let down. "},{"Title":"A great throwback","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Finally a thriller that really is smart and action packed! Redford steals this movie, not the least because he's in practically every scene. He's seasoned by time in the sun, and it fits his character. He plays an essentially duplicitous CIA agent with such charm that we of course convince ourselves that he is just a patriot doing his job. It's vogue again to have the ends justify the means.Pitt gets all the action stuff and little to do in the acting department, but that's all-right, he's pretty. He also gets to play the moral character who doesn't like people being treated like pawns, even though he does it!The Beirut sequence hits very close to home, and is probably one of the more intense action scenes in any Hollywood movie. We've seen this before from people like DePalma, but after 9-11-01 were not just casual observers.Discerning eyes will notice that practically all the actors, save our intrepid heroes, are British (ooh 'Secrets and Lies', ooh 'Masterpiece Theater'). After years of neither side being able to pull off a decent across the puddle accent we are now in an era of being unable to tell the nationality of native English speaking actors! It's such a glorious ride that I didn't really mind the improbable ending which, if it had happened in real time, would have been an act of war! And in case you haven't noticed the LeCarre irony now has a patriotic edge. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get better than this!","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Outstanding action-filled, tautly wound, spy thriller. A sophisticated plot, against a backdrop of CIA operations from Berlin to Beirut to China. You leave the film fully satisfied and feeling you have real insight into CIA operations and thinking, including a set of values which leave the players themselves confronting the inevitable ethical dilemmas of using and being used, betraying and being betrayed "},{"Title":"Good Little Spy Film","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  At the end of this film the woman sitting behind me said Goodlittle spy film in a tone of voice that would be appropriate forencouraging a pet after it had done a trick.  I agreed.This film worked pretty well on the whole, though much of it is toldthrough flashbacks, so some may find the temporal  discontinuities tiresome.  However, the flashback vehicle seemsfitting since it's about a witty CIA operative's (Robert Redford) lastday on a job of 30 years, and most of the flashbacks are integral tounderstanding what's happening  in the film -- not to mentionserving character development.  Some great soundtrack work, andsome wonderful cinematography in places.I didn't find it quite as emotionally engrossing as I had hoped.  Iliked the real time intensity of Training Day better.  But I enjoyedSpy Game.  I give it 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"grrreat","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although the timeline of the movie was slightly incoherent, the story kept moving and was never static.  There was a right balance of action and explanation...so basically.. good movie.  I recommend it D "}{"Title":"Watchable, but not a classic.","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  `What wicked webs we weave when we practice to deceive.' - A Quotation by something Shakespeare wrote that seems to make a good intro to a movie about espionage.Spy Game is... well, just look at the title.  It's not a Merchant-Ivory costume drama.  It's a movie about spies.  Actually, it's a movie about when spies had to stop acting like spies in the early 1990s.The year is 1991.  The Berlin Wall is down.  The first George Bush is President.  And something not exactly nice is going on with the spooks at the CIA.  Nathan Muir (Redford) is an agent, and is retiring.  Today. He's awakened by a phone call from the American Embassy in Hong Kong.  One of Muir's proteges has gotten into a bit of a mess in China.  Seems that Tom Bishop (Pitt) was trying to pull a rescue operation in a Chinese prison, and things went poorly.  This couldn't have come at a worse time, as the President is just about to head to China to secure a trade agreement.  The head spooks, led by Charles Harker (Dillane), want to know what Muir knows about Bishop.  Muir wants to know what exactly is going on, and why the CIA hasn't just pulled an extraction.  3...2...1... make plot twist go NOW!Spy movies are convoluted, and they should be.  Spy Game isn't in the James Bond mode of spy films.  It's more of a Tom Clancy type story.  More believable, but with fewer dangerously hot bad girls and explosions.Spy Game is drenched in cinematic style.  You're always aware that you are watching a movie.  But, that's one of Tony Scott's (brother of Ridley Scott) strong points.  He also made Top Gun and Crimson Tide.  He makes slick, commercial films.  Sort of like a better version of Michael Bay. Surprisingly, the quick-cut style, wacky filters, and shifts of frame-rate work well in this flick.  It looks good, it sounds good, and, feels good for ¾ of the movie.Why only ¾?  It's not because of Tony Scott, or any of the actors. Redford plays a company man who knows when and how to cross the line, and does it well.  Brad Pitt is Robert Redford if Redford had chosen to be a character actor instead of a leading man.  Stephen Dillane is good at being slimy. So, it comes down to the story, then, doesn't it?And, the story is good, up until the end.  Most of the movie is done in flashback, with Muir explaining his history with Bishop - from Vietnam, to Berlin, to Lebanon.  Any one of these stories on its own would have made a pretty good movie on its own.  Actually, Spy Game almost feels like a series of short films.  The bits that happen in the film's `present' are good, too. Up until the end.  With the sort of build-up presented, you expect a bigger ending than what you get.  The ending is (mostly) plausible, but, it needed something more.  Explosions, or a shoot-out, or a fight, or something.  It just didn't feel right.  It plays something like the espionage version of The Usual Suspects, only without Keyser Soze.  Apart from that quibble, it's certainly watchable, and, probably should be seen more than once, just to get all the details.  I think I may have missed some, due to some technical problems that were fixed quite easily, but, they happened during the second reel when most of the exposition was going on.  So, my suspension-of-disbelief was suspended, and the rest of my understanding suffered because of it. "},{"Title":"Great Original Story","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The cinematography was brilliant and the chemistry between Redford and Pitt is reminiscent of Redford and Newman.  There are very few things that can beat a movie that has a great story with some turns and twists.  And this movie has them all.  Never a dull moment - but a lot of wondering What's going to happen next?See this movie. "},{"Title":"An engaging spy story","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Frankly, the 7.0 average rating is a gross annoyance, because 7.1 is the minimum for IMDb to classify it as liked. So I only just got around to seeing it and only because I couldn't find anything I hadn't seen in the genre with a higher rating.Fact is that this is one of the best spy films I have seen. It keeps your attention from the get-go. Well worth seeing.Also it has a rich mix of intrigue, action, politics, spy-technicality, you name it!Could it be that the genre as a whole is just too complicated for the average reviewer? Possibly looking at some of the other ratings for top spy films! "},{"Title":"very entertaining","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Redford and Pitt make a good Film that much better. They both have a presence that comes out of the screen at you. A good story line which kept me interested throughout the film which at the end made me feel well satisfied that i have watched a very entertaining film. The rest of the cast gave fine performances with each one perfect for their role especially the CIA members. I was impressed with scenes set in Beirut . The action scenes were well directed and compulsive viewing , violent but restrained and gave me an impression of how the people of Lebanon are manipulated by the west. A very good film , well worth watching and would highly recommend to anyone who likes a simple good thriller with two of the best actors around. "},{"Title":"Clever writing, great cast, excellent music and sound","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Robert Redford introduces us to the spy game yes a game, One that you do not want to loose as he informs a Newly recruited Brad Pitt. You go from the last days of Viet Nam and the Phoenix project to the Middle East, back to the US and Red China. The sets, the directing, the supporting cast. Oh, did I forget the sound track? This is one of the best little nuggets in this complex and very clever movie great score and sound should of got a little golden boy but what does the academy know is not the first time they blew it and it will not be the last. I do not want to spoil it for you so I will just stop here and say, rent it; borrow it, but most of all you have to see SPY GAME. It is very solid entertainment, which was somehow overlooked at awards. God only knows why. "},{"Title":"Watchable.","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Watchable and at times entertaining, but instantly forgettable and with some glaring plot holes and inconsistencies that really annoy the viewer - e.g., Brad Pitt and Robert Redford are implied to be of the same age!! Also, there is no attempt to change either actors' features from the flash-back to 1975 to the present-time in the movie (1991). Neither of them are supposed to have aged at all in 16 years!! I think this movie would have been better, too, if it had spent more time in the 1991 scenario rather than disappearing down so many dark corners comprised of flash-back scenes.3/10 "},{"Title":"a taut, techno driven pacy thriller.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i saw spy game when it came out in the theatres.i was really impressed with its theatrical trailer knowing tony scotts(crimson tide)reputation. i was expecting a techno savvy action thriller with an exciting cia headquarters as its backdrop and boy was i thrilled!!trust me this movie is every worth of your penny and definitely showcasing redford's and pitt's talents .i must say the cinematography and background score are top notch and the use of colours to depict different locations n years is excellent .the few flaws that effect the movie r probably that people like expecting big action thrills and a big bang climax will return rather disappointed .what is interesting to see that scott did not pay attention to redfords looks while showing the year 1975 and 1991 he looks the same in both the decades.director tonny scott does a gr8 job in extracting a brilliant performance from its convincing cast(i could not imagine anyone else doing redfords role he breathed life into the character).all in all 4 out of 5. "},{"Title":"All the things that make a movie so great.","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this film a few times since its release and although I liked it a lot, I never thought of commenting on it. But today I recommended it with some enthusiasm to a friend who hasn't watched it and this prompted me to write here, the things I said about the film.That it is simply one of the best films made. A great story about love, honor, principles and sacrifice compiled into a contemporary espionage thriller, a brilliant plot and battle of minds that continues up to the last minute of the film.It is about how people who work in the intelligence community think and operate and about the dilemmas they are faced with, when carrying out their job. The conflict between their aims and principles and how all these are affected by the relationships and loyalties that develop between them.Some concentration is needed to follow the plot and details; however, this what makes the film even more enjoyable no matter how many times you watch it. With excellent cast, great direction and beautiful soundtrack, this film is a must for all those who appreciate these ingredients. "},{"Title":"Very underrated Tony Scott film. Love it.","Date":"12 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tony Scott's Spy Game is a kinetic yet heartfelt espionage thriller that sees the director maintain considerable shards of his assaulting sensory overdrive of style, whilst pausing along the way for a story that is really rooted in the personal story of the bond and friendship between two men. A lot of his films are predominantly visual and auditory, a bullet train of sound and fury, with plot and characterization as passengers onboard. Here those elements are cogs in the machine, resulting in a very touching, extremely exciting outing and perhaps the director's most overlooked piece. Robert Redford used to be the younger, more naive faction in a lot of cinematic pairings, especially with Paul Newman. Here he flips the coin, taking on the grizzled mantle of both father figure and mentor to Brad Pitt. Pitt is Tom Bishop, an operative taken under the wing of veteran agent Nathan D. Muir (Redford). Nathan no doubt sees some of himself in the lad, and takes a shine to him, grooming him with all the skills and cunning that a lifetime in the business has given him. Life throws curveballs though, and more often than not they involve love. Bishop has gone rogue in an attempt to rescue relief worker Elizabeth Hadley (the brilliant Catherine McCormack, who needs to be in more movies) from a Chinese prison. In his eagerness he is captured, leaving Muir to make some tough decisions, pull some hidden cards and use all of his talent and resources to extract them. Now in many films like this there would be several blistering action set pieces to show how it's done. Scott instead chooses to give Redford the intellectual grit and subversive genius to pull hidden strings and come up with a wicked fun solution that is endlessly more satisfying than an explosion ridden shock and awe campaign. His struggle to get his friend back is laced with flashbacks of his training, with a 70's flavour that feels authentic and writing that lovingly builds the blocks of their dynamic. Stephen Dillane provides wonderfully understated work as a quietly smarmy CIA prick, and watch for a quick appearance from the great Charlotte Rampling. To see Scott's frenetic aesthetic hired for a script that takes its time and plays out less like a conventional thriller and more like the paced, elliptical spy thrillers of years past (vaguely reminiscent of aspects of Le Carré) is a somewhat rare treat. Terrific thriller with Redford at his best, highly, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Robert and Brad needs to do a Part 2","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie needs a Part 2. Its great story line and delivery are awesome to watch. Keeps you in your toes most of the time. Exciting and action suspense.This movie would compete with Jason Bourn, James Bond and other action movies.The part that Brad Pitt heard the code line when he got rescued he thought that Robert have abandoned him for good.There is always a backroom transaction and will never know who ordered it, how it was executed and delivered.This would be a BLOCKBUSTER MOVIE it ever Part 2 would be created. "}{"Title":"You don't need action to enjoy this","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game has become one of my favorite films of all time for its unique locations and events. I might not really know much about acting but Redford and Pitt both give very good performances and the plot, while having very little action is still enough to keep me re watching this film time and time again. What i really enjoy about this film is it's authenticity for portraying CIA operations during the Cold War, the agents are given cover jobs, cover names, etc and they have to do them convincingly as not to alert anyone of their true intentions.The only dislikes i have is the point of conflict between Muir and Bishop Elizabeth Hadley. Its where the film suffers mainly, love stories don't belong in films like this, and the unbelievably stupid reason of how Bishop got caught in China, since when does bubblegum translate to there's a spy here?!?!?! its the dumbest moment of the whole film, makes no sense whatsoever, and i truly hate it. Those 2 things should've really been changed.Aside from those 2 annoyances, Spy Game is a very enjoyable film that gives you a look at how the CIA works and the issues field agents have to face, one of the most dramatic scenes is when Muir decides to call the local militia to assassinate someone because he wasn't fully sure that Bishop could get there in time, its not that he doesn't trust his partner, its just that he can't take that marginal risk that their target has a chance to get away, no matter how slim that chance is. Its an excellent thriller with a lot of atmosphere, and a great story, sure it has some errors but name one movie that doesn't, It might take more than one time, but it'll grow on you until you have no choice but to add it as a favorite "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and thrilling escapism","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I just watched this movie again on Netflix and was reminded how much I liked it. Robert Redford turns in one of his better later performances and is a believable character as the CIA field agent Nathan Muir on his last day. Brad Pitt, too, gives one of his better turns as Tom Bishop, an operative recruited by Muir with growing disillusionment.The two of them are reason enough to watch this. In typical Scott fashion, the story moves fairly quickly and the camera angles border on producing motion sickness as they swirl around the characters (much like scenes from Man on Fire). If you watch this without thinking too much about it but rather allow yourself to get caught up in the finer points of the story, you will find the movie to be an enjoyable diversion.However, the film cannot rise above 7 out of 10 because the story itself does not bear up under anything resembling close inspection. The goofs that are chronicled on this site give a pretty good accounting of the things that undermine the story's believability. You don't have to follow world events very closely to know that the U.S. never had an embassy in Hong Kong (or in West Berlin, not technically ever a part of West Germany, for that matter). For those who speak German, using Hungarians to pose as Vopos (Volkspolizei - East German Police) is a disappointment. From the goofs, apparently those facile in Chinese will also be disappointed.You can dwell on such things and allow them to spoil the movie for you. However, if you chose to overlook the absurdities, this is an enjoyable tale with compelling characters. "},{"Title":"A game that's exactly what it is!","Date":"18 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When this was in the theaters, I declined an invitation to see it. Ironic, since I watch whenever it's on cable. Let's face it Redford, Pitt are eminently watchable. The Harker character's a minor gem a bean counter that's been Redford's foil thruout gets his.The plot's been rehashed here @IMDb. The pace makes this a genuine thriller Redford's the oldest guy in the class, but he stays 2 steps ahead of the (ultimately) risk averse Lumpencouncil. & As in all really good movies, a main character has a change of heart whatever promise Redford's character made ages ago means nothing against bland accession of the senior staff to the global status quo. You're pleased that Redford slips into retirement while his colleagues will conduct damage control. "},{"Title":"A Great Two Hours of Suspense!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPY GAME is like a book you cannot put down.  The story and action grip you at the beginning, and your mind never wanders until after the credits are finished at the end.  Robert Redford is at his best since he appeared in THE STING although the movies are definitely different.  For an evening of action, SPY GAME will not disappoint you. "},{"Title":"An Answer","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Poster SamPeckinpaw asksWas Brad Pitt playing a person 45+ years old in the Hong Kong prison? Or was he only 10 years old in the Viet Nam sequence?Early in the film, a news broadcast in the background covers the 2nd anniversary of the Berlin wall falling.  That would place the film's current time around 1991.  If we assume Brad Pitt was 19 in Vietnam in 1975, then when in the Chinese prison he would be 35 years old.  Much more believable.With regards to your other questions and the complaints of other posters Obviously, the film requires suspension of some belief.  However, in contrast to the usual mindless drivel doled out in typical Hollywood action/drama films, Spy Games compares very favorably. "},{"Title":"A decent film","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is not my type of film, i don't generally like political movies, the only reason i went to see this was for Brad Pitt and Robert Redford. I wasn't disappointed, i love Brad Pitts work, i think he is one of the finest actors in the world today and if you can get past the fact that he is a very good looking person, you will probably be able to appreciate this, while i am not Robert Redfords biggest fan, i like a majority of his work and i think he is one the best actors of his generation. But for a film to impress me, it has to have more than two good actors, there has to be a decent plot in there somewhere, something to keep me interested, i think the reason i liked this so much is because while it does focus on politics, it focuses a lot more on Nathan and Toms relationship, which is the strong point of the film , whenever the two of them interact in the film, it comes to life, they have a great on screen chemistry with each other and they are helped by a good script. Overall, Good political film, great performances 8/10 "},{"Title":"Topnotch spythriller","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford and Brad Pitt both deliver a great performance in this very exciting spy thriller. Although you seem to miss a motive for Redfords actions late in the film, the movie still delivers an exciting insight in what could be the inner workings of a secret service. Worth to watch. "},{"Title":"Intelligent mind stimulating movie","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  CIA/mercenary intelligence at its best.  I especially liked the acting between Robert Redford and Brad Pitt.  A thinking persons covert behind the scenes CIA/Spy movie.  This movie requires diligent concentration to follow the plot but worth your time. "},{"Title":"Complex character-driven thriller, old vs. new","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  LOVED this movie! Unexpectedly complex, character-driven spy tale of a wily master spy about to retire after thirty years on the job, and the final challenge of his last day with The Company. Redford and Pitt were fascinating and believable. The cast of supporting characters was perfectly cast, from Larry Bryggman as the older spy-who-came-in-from-the-cold, to the new faceless agents bound to their desks, with no understanding of what it takes to win the game. Really a great story. I don't know why I am always surprised that Brad Pitt is such an affecting actor, but I was particularly blown away by the job he did in this film. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"Good Spy Film","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is a solid entry into the spy genre (which has been lacking as of late).  Both Redford and Pitt turn in above-average performances to characters that probably should have had a little harder edge to them (particularly Redford).  The story, despite flashbacks, is always interesting thanks to some well-plotted writing.  The only let-down is the ease that Redford makes the ending happen.  There weren't any obstacles in his way.  Basically, the only dilemma he had was the choice to give up the 280k he'd been saving.  The film is helped by sharp directing and cinematography.  Kudos to the editor, too.Overall, a film that you can watch more than once -- and that's saying something these days...3.5/4 stars (***1/2 out of ****) "}{"Title":"Not-so-spry game","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Saggy Redford plays a retiring CIA operative/ analyst/ whatever who's last gasp is to help his former underling Brad Pitt to escape from being executed from a Chinese prison. It would have been a good movie IF the movie had concentrated on the covert operations and less on Redford swaggering around Langley with his cel phone, duping his colleagues in overly dramatic board room meetings, and ruminating over the good old times in a dizzying array of flashbacks. If you like staring at Redford for extended periods of time while he ponders his options, then go see it. Otherwise, check out Octopussy again... Roger Moore might have been old and ridiculous as James Bond, but at least he knew how to kick ass. "},{"Title":"Great Movie To Watch at Home","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is a genius movie. The cinematography was incredible , with awesome camera angles and a nitty gritty type of feel to it, not to be compared with traffic. Through out the whole movie there was a great use of flashbacks and plays with past and present, which really added to the suspense and made it hard to keep your eyes peeled off the screen for a minute in fear that you would miss a vital part of the plot. With so many bad spy flicks out there, spy game proved that there is hope for this genre ( with the exception of some) without the cheesy lines and over-exaggeration. It was very realistic and seems to mimic what the CIA is really like. Robert Redford and Brad Pitt are an exhilarating pair. "},{"Title":"Almost fatally flawed but still quite interesting","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What this movie lacks in pace and dramatic momentum can be measured by how much of the movie is told in narrated flashbacks.  With only twenty-four hours until Brad Pitt's impending execution in a Chinese prison, the main plot points would indicate urgency.  But that urgency fails to set the movie's pace because the real story in Spy Game is what brought Brad Pitt to this desperate pass.  So the movie is all backstory with precious little front story.  Every time we get wrapped up in Redford's effort to spring Pitt from the trap he's in we get drawn into another languid flashback.Still, these are interesting characters who are worth watching.  But, as the deleted scenes on the DVD show, they were meant to be even more interesting. In fact, had the deleted scenes made it into the final cut, we would have found ourselves much closer to Le Carre country or Graham Greene land. Unfortunately, director Tony Scott opted to soften Redford's character on the (false) notion that audiences would accept him more easily.  But the more complicated Redford would have been a much more challenging character . Instead, he's almost avuncular and too good to be true.But that's speculation since Scott did simplify the character.  What remains the movie's most serious flaw is those flashbacks.  We start with a countdown to doom, and instead of a ticking clock, we hear the burbling of a meandering brook as the backstory continues, and continues, and continues and...Nevertheless, it's an interesting tale if you can stick with it.  The performances are uniformly good and the production details are staggering. The Lebanon sequences have an almost documentary authority.  Too bad they didn't make it into a better script.Worth watching.  But only just. "},{"Title":"a good but complex thriller.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The thing i liked most about the film was that the actors didn't try and steal the show, they just did the job they had to do. Brad Pitt was his usual great self, as was Redford. The cool camera movements were great as they showed the whole film like the C.I.A themselves were being watched. At least that's what i thought anyway. Confident direction,a top plot great actors and some big explosions make this a winner. Well done Tony scott! "},{"Title":"Interesting spy thriller","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Interesting story with fine performances and brains.Spy Game is a well directed Hollywood movie from British director Tony Scott.Story is okey enough,but not that interesting.Story changes from time to time and it`s told over a 20 years period.So the movie it`s kind of confusing;and a little boring sometimes.But good cast helps and Spy Game is entertaining throughout,but it doesn`t stay in your mind that long.Watch it anyway!Rated 6/10 "},{"Title":"Average Spy Caper","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Starts ok but becomes quite dull until the finale.The movie isnt helped by it being predictable. Redford is good but in the flashback scenes he looks ancient. it tries hard to be another Clear and Present Danger but fails. in truth The Tailor of Panama was a lot better than this.so just 6 out of 10 for this movie. "},{"Title":"Kick butt, hilarious movie.  With some sillyness too it.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie.  It's one of the biggest surprises in awhile.  And one of Bob's best movies since The Natural.Spoilers???Now of course there really isn't any spoilers in this movie since it's a movie that shows some of the ending already (not the ending).But it's a great flashback movie.  It does have alot of senseless writing though.  And it's not really believable.  But I loved it.1975 and 2001 .. Bob shows his age in both times.  He hardly looks younger in 1975.  If they can make Orson Welles look older, they sure as hell make Robert Redford look younger.  Bad marks for the makeup dept.Then there's some military crap they goof up.  Who in blinds eye is gonna get an operation done with a fake signature?  It's kinda scary if you think about it.  There's also some plot holes lurking about.Now I'll have to see The Last Castle.7/10Quality 5/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayble 10/10 "},{"Title":"Very good, but not great.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What? Someone couldn't rewrite the script?Brad Pitt as a Viet Nam Vet? Did I miss something? The Gulf war is 10 years old now folks. I'm 40 and I don't remember Viet Nam for squat.Watch the scene with Brad Pitt and Robert Redford discussing assets.Base ball cards? Brad Pitt was lost in that scene. There's a reason Robert Redford is still in demand into his 60's. Pitt does well...80% of the time. He's good, but he's no Redford or DeNiro.BUT...a third of the way into the movie it started to pick up really well.<spoilers>At the end, do you really think the US will take helicopters into China without the authorization of the President? That is SO hollywood.  We'd be looking at MAJOR war.  Remember Carter just trying Helicopters in the desert?Maybe I spend too much time on the Washington Times, and the WP. Maybe Hollywood directors and writers need to be a bit less isolated.For what its worth.Jeff Cantwell "},{"Title":"A great action movie, with one too many sub-plots..(7 of 10)","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ***possible spoilers*** Spy Game is a solid action movie, and it keeps you on your toes, and the overall plot is solid for an action movie.  However, it seems that there are a multitude of sub-plots throughout the movie that are intruiging, yet aren't allowed to develop because of the overall plot.  A great movie plot would be do dwell only on the CIA recruiting, setting up, and training of an agent, as they touched upon with Tom Bishop...Overall 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Redford - Wrinkles And All","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   The one thing that I admire about Robert Redford is that he plays characters close to his real age. In Spy Game he is CIA agent Nathan Muir who is about to retire.  On his last day, he learns that his former protege, Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) has been placed in a Chinese prison and is about to be executed. Muir, against the wishes of his superiors, plans to bring Bishop out. The relationship between Muir and Bishop is detailed in a series of flashbacks - how Muir recruited and trained Bishop, and how Bishop develops a relationship with political activist Elizabeth Hadley (Catherine McCormack) which eventually leads to Bishop's imprisonment. Muir while appearing to appease his colleagues and superiors is calling in a few markers from his contacts around the world in an effort to secure Bishop's release. Redford, wrinkles and all, is the consummate con man once again as Muir who won;t leave his friend in jeopardy. Brad Pitt is also good as the cocky young Bishop who like Muir, has his own way of doing things. Spy Game reminds one a little od Three Days of the Condor (1975) another CIA themed Redford film but this time with Redford on the inside.    "}{"Title":"For those who think the characters didn't age...","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Muir and Bishop meet in Vietnam in 1975 and the present scenes take place in 1991. That's only sixteen years.Seems to me way too many people are freaking out because the characters look the same throughout the film.I personally think Bishop looks much younger in the scenes in Vietnam, as opposed to the present time of 1991. Meanwhile, Redford has looked the same (wonderfully rugged) for years, so why should his character age so dramatically?Pitt and the character of Bishop are different people - just because Pitt was born in 1963 doesn't mean Bishop was.Fiction, people, fiction. The film is brilliant. It's supposed to entertain! So let yourself be entertained... and pay attention to those small details that people work hard to get into a film before you throw a fit about continuity. "},{"Title":"Great Flick!","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great action right from the start.  This movie was well written and well acted.  The chemistry between the main characters worked, the story kept my interest, and the action just added to the whole experience.  Redford was his usual slick self and Pitt was great as the enthusiastic pupil.  This is definitely worth watching! "},{"Title":"solid... (minor spoilers that spoil nothing)","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is one of those movies that is hard to hype.  To catch the attention of potential theater patrons you have to stitch the action scenes together and toss in a few close ups of the stars.  Critics assaulted it as a thinking film.  Neither really pitches the movie for what it is; a dead solid piece of cinema that is going to astound no one, break no new ground and barely challenge it's actors (Pitt basically does nothing cinematically but swallow strange capsules and provide the ricochet for the Redford character's moves and Redford plays...well, Redford, which is not a put down).  Yet, the actors have to imbue their characters with realism with only quick cuts, facial expressions and odd scenes.  In one, Pitt has to do something very mundane and ordinary in five minutes.  Sure enough, he does, but we don't get to see how he does it.  There's a lot of that; audience participation is a must.  There are certainly tense scenes (try keeping your cool with a sniper rifle while an armed helicopter is blasting at you) but there are after the fact scenes that almost give you no time to add two and two.  This is a laid back and low key film.  Low, low key.  And while the characters are doing their low key thing, these huge political and physical explosions are going off in your side vision.  It wants to come off as a this is the way it really happens but we know it really isn't and that is almost an intrusion.  Who get's the bejeesus beat out of them better than Brad?  Who is the epitome of quiet wisdom and common smarts than Robert?  Especially with all his Yoda wrinkles and that squinty glint with the is that a smile thing he can do.  The suspense is soft and when we get socked it isn't with exploding visuals or thunderous music but with two words dinner out and a number 282,000.  They mean nothing unless you've kept up.  I think Tony Scott got it all out of this film.  Minimal input, maximum effect.  He integrated his stars' reputations and visual presence, seamlessly into the plot.  In a lot of ways this is one of those perfect films, an accident of director, writers, actors, audience and time.  That doesn't make it a great film but when you can do a through the windshield of a Porche shot of Robert Redford's face, up close and personal, as he drives away into the sunset, with all his secrets yet unknown but unfolding in his wake, and his sunglasses metaphor for things clandestine...so many of the things in this movie hook together and work, it's just cool.     If you want a pure action film, go elsewhere.     If you want a pure thinking film, go elsewhere.     If you want something new and different, go elsewhere.     If you want something done exceptionally well done and the serendipity of the right actors in exactly the right spot and the whole movie catch just the correct pitch and tone ... then you've come to the right place.     Always count your wives...     A quiet, dead solid perfect movie.  "},{"Title":"Grown-up spy movie","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Creatively-edited, well-acted and just flat-out good. Redford does a great job with an interesting character, and even Pitt isn't bad. Lots of interesting footage in Beirut, Vietnam and Berlin. For once, flashbacks work. Anyone looking for mindless, high-action car chases and all the usual spy cliches will no doubt be disappointed, but it's worth seeing more than once. "},{"Title":"I just wanna talk about Su Zhou!!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I always love tony's movie,because it made me feel that the storys in the movie are based on real things.After i saw the movie SPY GAME,i lost that feeling.See the Su Zhou in the movie?A dark disgusting place with evil people.I can assure you that Mr. Scott had never been to Su Zhou, the most beautiful and old-line city of China and now a new high-tech industry base.See the prison?like the navy depot in the movie THE ROCK!I tell u something, in China ,jails are not such kinda staringthings. The coolest movie i have ever known was under a lake! anyway , the movie is exciting and worthy to watch. "},{"Title":"slick thriller as only mr.scott can do","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i saw this film about 3 weeks ago, and i was pleasantly surprised. it bared a number of similarities to Scott's previous film enemy of the state, especially in the speed-frame camera work and editing. the middle section of the film became a bit muddled with all the intrigue, but i thought pitt and especially redford were commanding throughout. the guy i went to see this with, went to see behind enemy lines the next day and said that it kicked ass over this film, but i just disagreed and cut a fart on him.8/10 "},{"Title":"Quite good...","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first I heard of this movie was when Brad Pitt and Robert Redford had been doing a gig on I think The Jay Leno Show where they played all these jokes to get people to see the movie. It looked pretty good from the trailer as well, and I must say I was pretty happy with the result. I'm not a huge fan of Robert Redford but he did a good job as Muir, really cunning and genuine. The movie also confirmed to me that Brad Pitt is more than just a pretty face, his character Tom was intelligent and fast. I thought they could have expanded his role a bit more, maybe give more information on his background. Also they don't really say why his friend Tran was able to walk away from the ambulance scott free leaving behind a fellow comrade. Also Catherine McCormack's character could have been given a bit more screen time not too mention a proper explanation of her past...they sort of skim it.Either way I give this a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very entertaining film and both leads, but particularly Redford, do a great job.You don't want to look too closely at some of the plot points but the whole thing flows very well.One minor technical point...what is Brad Pitt (US Military) doing with a.303 Enfield (British WWII) sniper rifle in 1975 Viet Nam and where does he get ammo for it; it must have been what was available in the prop department, after all, who's going to notice? "},{"Title":"A Surreal Pairing","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's strange seeing these two actors together, one gets the feeling that in Redford you see an old Brad Pitt and in Pitt you see a young Redford, which is exactly what the producers want us to observe, but if neither of them were the great actors they are, we wouldn't care less. You must suspend your belief for a time when they're together in Vietnam, because practically 18 years on, both of them look exactly the same. Other than that, it's always good to see the good guy make fools of the rotten evil-doers, in this case the CIA, but if for nothing else, just see it for Redford who is without a doubt, one of the greatest actors of his generation, a master of subtlety and Pitt matches his every frame of the way. In this film, as in Ocean's Eleven, Brad Pitt is so natural and so unaffected, he makes you wonder what he couldn't do before the camera.As for the story, it's exciting, standard spy story fare, satisfying for sure and Tony Scott's got the goods as far as directing goes. A little too close for comfort to Enemy of The State, but if that's what you like, why not? "},{"Title":"Good... but that's it.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is good. It's not bad. It's not great. It's just... good. If ever there was a slightly-better-than-average-forgettable-enjoyable flick then this is it. It's already in the 6.5/10 range...Acting is fine. Redford is his usual self and Pitt admirably does the wild-headed young man. Again. The plot is grand enough - interestingly it's basically Redford sitting around recounting past tales of Pitt's character - Bishop's - life. These stories are intended to fill us in on how Bishop came to be where he currently is - about to be executed in a Chinese prison. Redford's character - Muir - is trying to stop him and so needs to chat to get the resources and information to do so. It's a nice enough structure and works fine - and we do fill in gaps that make us go oh so that's what he meant earlier etc. Sure it's not original but effective. The direction is generally fine except when Tony Scott goes insane and starts speeding the camera around like the Road Runner on amphetamines.  It's a tad over the top lad - calm down..Other than that the movie goes along fairly briskly and we're kept reasonably entertained throughout. After seeing it I could shrug my shoulders and forget it all having pleasantly enough passed away the time. 6.5/10  "}{"Title":"Too long, smacks of Out Of Sight","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie didn't even try to avoid obvious cliche's. Retiring CIA who wants to do good one more time, a system that is too busy trying to obey its own rules to be bothered trying to live up to its mission, a rebel get the job done agent that can barely be controlled yet is allowed to continue in the job. If they were cops instead of CIA, it could have been an episode of Starsky and Hutch.The same stop-pan-stop camera work that made me want to put Out of Sight out of my mind plagued this movie as well. Also a problem was the fact that the movie was constantly jumping in time without much warning, though not nearly as badly as Out of Sight. It wasn't impossible to keep track of, just more trouble than it was ultimately worth.Mission to Mars is my touch stone for bad movies. Spy Game is probably 25% as bad as Mission to Mars. If it's the only movie playing during the time you have available, maybe you should just walk around the mall, instead.-Dave "},{"Title":"A spy movie in the great tradition!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I feel that there has been a dearth of good spy movies of late; perhaps it is a reflection of the ending of the Cold War but I felt that Spy Game was as good or better than many of the genre of the recent past.I confess to my abhorrence of those silly, puerile patriotic movies that seem to be little more than recruiting films for the US government and unfortunately those types seem to have predominated recently.I thought that the acting was uniformly genuine and that Tony Scott's direction moved the movie into a higher plane.  He had wonderfully memorable scenes of Beirut during the civil war as well as 'browned scenes from Vietnam and night scenes from East Berlin.  His camera movements and images were superb and I feel sure that he will continue to have an illustrious career. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Brad Pitt and Robert Redford make one heck of a great team in this movie, which was terrific!Nathan Muir is a CIA agent who is on the brink of retirement just 24 hours away when he gets a call from a friend letting him know that his protege Tom Bishop has been captured in China for espionage. When Nathan arrives at work he realizes the situation is serious as he sent to questioning about Tom, who is to be executed in 24 hours. Plenty of flashbacks on how the two met, how Nathan got Tom involved as an undercover agent and in all the time Nathan is telling the story of Tom to his superiors he tries to find a way in order to rescue Tom during the questioning without the usage of friends, assets and access keys.This was one of Robert Redford's best movies, it reminds me of his performance in Sneakers only better and this man is truly like fine wine!I've never been a fan of Brad Pitt although I believe his only movie that was decent enough to watch was Legends of the Fall and this one stands right beside it! 10/10! "},{"Title":"Good, but not very likely","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good acting, interesting locations, tension resulting from a time limit, and then......... lets do an ending that absolutely, positively, would never occur.  A little aggravating, to say the least.  Also, the cinematography was not really right for this type of movie (strange, MTV style cuts and stop action shots), and additionally, the movie looked a little washed out, colorwise.  Nonetheless, I did enjoy the movie, so lets say 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Espionage, thrills, who could ask for more?","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very good Hollywood thriller to me. The history behind Redford and Pitt's character was well thought out and depicted on the big screen.Redford hasn't lost his on-screen charisma and was indeed convincing as Muir. I like the fact that the director worked the tension between him and his colleagues so well that it kept me on the edge of my seat and firmly engrossed in the film. What I didn't really care for was the reasoning for Pitt being put in the Chinese prison. Sort of turning it into a love story didn't really turn my crank. why oh why does Hollywood always have to put some romance in a movie that doesn't really need it?Good on the building tension meter. The conflict in Lebanon was so tangible with the all the fighting and the bombing, it felt real.On the whole, this was a very good spy thriller with some great acting and a somewhat interesting premise behind it. Hats off to Redford and Pitt for pulling off a rather convincing portrayal of mentor and student. "},{"Title":"Imaginative and clever.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this film because it is a clever and different spy film. Most of the action occurs in flashback, which some people may not like, and centres around the relationship between Brad Pitt (as the field agent) and Robert Redford (as his controller), and takes us from their first meeting in Vietnam through the training and onto the missions in Berlin and Beruit. The film twists and turns like any good spy film should and has plenty of tension. A solid 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Actors at their best","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's like an old movie with modern make. Robert Redford is the best actor of his Generation, now that Dustin Hoffman and Robert Deniro have forgotten how to act. Brad Pitt is a good actor too. The history is concrete and fast. Very good. A little more than entertaining. "},{"Title":"Best old Redford movie yet","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This spy movie had the potential to be just another paycheck to the actors involved. How many twists can the spy movie genre have? Well they found one more and both Pitt and Redford can be proud of their work here. What started out as a film choice to avoid the lineups for Lord of the Rings ended up as one of the best films I've seen this year. Whether or not the plot is something that could actually happen is another matter but it makes more sense than Memento and the characters are not caricatures but people who happen to be involved in espionage. Pitt fans will see more of his talent here than in Oceans Eleven. "},{"Title":"Tony Tony Tony has done it again","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's a lucky thing, this being a spy thriller about a guy (Brad Pitt) who's utterly wrong for the job he's doing the movie forms a perfectly inverted analogy for the miscastness of its director, Tony Scott.Maybe, somewhere, the script for this convolute-a-thon about the relationship between an older, amoral CIA hand (Robert Redford) and his young, still ethically stinging protege (Pitt) could have worked. The movie has a nice offhandness about the cold-blooded tactics of the Company in various destitute foreign lands--it tries to reassure us that crimes are committed for the greater good, then it questions insistently whether that good is greater. No problem with that. The problem is that Tony Scott thinks he's still in CRIMSON TIDE or ENEMY OF THE STATE territory. Digital speed-ups of helicopter'd cityscapes, slammin' freeze-frames of Redford's nervous face (blam! 234 P.M.!); loud music and quintessentially Scottian images of sweaty, malefic underlings--they all get in the way of a talky potboiler with an oddly literary, undramatic, un-action-movie structure it all takes place in a CIA boardroom, with Redford recounting the Pitt's Progress in flashback.Had Scott just gone with the headiness of it all, the movie might have had some of the emotional sting of, say, Fred Schepisi's adaptation of THE RUSSIA HOUSE; instead, he tries so hard to jack everything up that you have to concentrate twice as hard just to keep up. Redford gives a nice, wry, smart, understated performance; and Pitt, though under heavy wraps here, no longer >seems at all dumb, which is a plus. But Scott, who at least permitted good performances in movies like THE HUNGER and TRUE ROMANCE, doesn't do his thespians any favors here. You get the feeling there as much in the way of what he's after as they'd be in a Michael Bay movie. Like his much less talented colleague Joel Schumacher, Scott is somebody who keeps seeming to want to grow up but never has the huevos to take the leap. "},{"Title":"Tense thriller with real characters","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford is a CIA agent, working against the system to save Brad Pitt, who is a loose cannon former contract agent who has gotten himself into deep trouble.  Great script.  Redford uses his brains and wiles.  Pitt uses his muscle and wit.  Brad Pitt gets beaten up.  Flashbacks where Redford is supposed to be twenty years younger are funny because no one bothered to make him look any younger.  Was there a continuity person on this shoot? It's a real good movie, with action, adventure, history, realistic settings, great cinematography, superb editing.  An all-around high quality piece of film work, calculated to entertain in such a way that you feel you are being educated at the same time.  Don't miss a moment or you will miss some plot bit that will leave you confused.  See it! "}{"Title":"thoughtful and active","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Brad and Bob were good together, but I had a hard time with the interplay between Brad and Catherine McCormack.  The key to this movie would be that you can't just sit and watch you have to think a little.  Some say not enuff, some say way too much.  I liked the script just fine as it was.  It addressed some things that need to be addressed on a large scale by the intelligence community and the people of the nation states of the world. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one entertaining great film. Very intriguing premise that doesn't get boring at all. The flashbacks are the best parts of the movie and the scenes involving talking of officials are interesting to wtach and are somewhat humorous with how Redford is just p***ing them off. Brad Pitt is also very good in the movie and is very convincing as a CIA agent. Great JOb  "},{"Title":"great fun! TS at his best","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tthis film is a great example of the spy action genre and gives anew meaning to the term REMOTE CONTROL!!Redford is his usual charismatic self and plays brilliantly as the wise old hand.  Pitt, the rookie, does a good job and more than holds his own against Redford.  The supporting cast are a text book case of brilliant casting, all the usual suspects are present and correct. In case you haven't guessed this is not a particularly new story but it is one that has been very well told and and benefits from Tony Scott's talented direction.  Everything  about it has been polished and re-polished until what we see is a very slick and well produced film that has some nice twists and a half intelligent story line.  The fact that they evidently worked on developing the story line is becoming a rare feature of contemporary Hollywood and certainly pays off in this instance.A great 2 hours entertainment and well worth the £5.60! "},{"Title":"Good Game","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Tony Scott's Spy Game starring Robert Redford and Brad Pitt is not exactly what I expected. It's not really an action movie. It's more of a thriller with some interesting insight into the operations of the CIA courtesy of writer Michael Frost Beckner. It's good fun with a lot of star power. On the day of his retirement, Nathan Muir (Redford) discovers that his protégé' and estranged friend, Tom Bishop (Pitt), has been captured in China for espionage and will be executed in 24 hours. Not exactly what 30 year CIA veteran Muir had intended as his swan song. Apparently, Bishop has also gone rogue as an operative. This does not fair well with impending trade status talks with China in 1991. Muir must get his man out, while the CIA internal affairs man, Charles Harker (an great snake-like Stephen Dillane) is out to trap Muir. Interesting setting is in place. The movie centers on Muir's flashbacks to his relationship with Bishop since he recruited him in Vietnam in 1975. Ultimately, their strained relationship centers around his relationship with a mysterious woman, Elizabeth (Catherine McCormack). Guess what happens to rock bands, happens to CIA operatives. This is also a weaker point of the movie. The strength of the movie is in the mentor relationship between Redford and Pitt. Redford is particularly great as the seen-it-all before Muir who is coaching his charge in how the play The Game and the other game-- life. Pitt brings a energy and humanity to a spy who is ultimately disillusioned by The Game-- he makes believable the evolution. Tony Scott keeps up the pace along with a high tech and grand visual style. The opening sequence of the movie is stunning. Too bad with the structure of the story, Redford and Pitt don't spend more time on the screen together-- something the movie could have used more of. Spy Game is still well crafted entertainment. "},{"Title":"WOW!!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  WOW!! What can I say?! This film was amazing. The acting was top job, well done men!! I would love to see more of Redford and Pitt together like that! I left the theater with this smile that wouldn't go away. The deceit was innocent enough to not ruin the movie. It was really a well done movie, one of the best I have seen in quite a  while! "},{"Title":"put your sense aside for 2 and a bit hours","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Now I'm no military intelligence expert, but since when do the CIA need an almost-retired field-operatives help to frame one of their own as a dissident? Especially when the help simply consists of a few hes-a-good-guy-really-and-you-lot-are-bad-for-not-wanting-to-save-him tales centred around Vietnam, Germany, Beruit and China?There's a good film to be had though, if you do manage to put your sense aside for 2 and a bit hours. The main plot is a little flimsy, but the bulk of the film is made up of the tales of espionage in Vietnam, Germany and Beruit... and there's some good story there, the Beruit one being particularly involving. There's also some good character acting from Robert Redford as the almost-retired maverick CIA recruitment officer, as well as some stunning set pieces - esp. in China and Beiruit.On the whole though this film seems to have been created as a vehicle for Pitt's chiselled features, and we see little example of the good acting talent we know he has. It is relatively entertaining though if you like slow-paced, well-drawn out political/military thrillers. If that's your bag, this is right up your alley. "},{"Title":"another Hollywood-style action flick that entertains, but isn't terribly original...","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   Director Tony Scott (Top Gun) delivers this high-paced action flick that, although not completely original, is an enjoyable action flick. Sure, there may be a few plot holes, but this one is out to be a crowd pleaser, not a critics' favorite. Robert Redford and Brad Pitt each carry their roles well. Interestingly enough, they never appear together in real time. They only share the screen in the many flashback sequences.   Redford's character is clever and enjoyable to watch as he pulls off many stunts against his fellow CIA agents to save his old protegee, Pitt, from a Chinese prison. Thankfully, neither is trying to play a romantic lead as the story concentrates on the rescue, rather than complicating the story with an unnecessary love interest.While both actors do a good job, the flashback sequences are quite humorous, as the story goes back to the Vietnam war and neither actor appears any younger, even with the soft lights. Also, there's a running time stamp on the movie, which comes off as slightly silly. It is indeed a Hollywood-style action film, from a director who was a safe bet because of his history of box office hits. It comes off a little over-the-top at times, but will do well between the star power and safe-bet direction.This one is worth seeing in the theater if you would like to have your eyes glaze over and just enjoy a popcorn flick. Don't expect too much in the way of groundbreaking material and you will probably enjoy it. Every once in a while it's good to have an entertaining action flick like this to turn to during the flood of questionably entertaining movies this holiday season. If you're a big fan of action flicks or either actor, check it out in the theater. If not, it won't kill you to wait for the video.  "},{"Title":"Great Spy Thriller","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy game is an extremely good movie and I would recommend it to everyone. This movie is the best spy movie I have ever seen and clearly blows away any James Bond or Mission Impossible movie.  The action is all reality based which makes the movie seem very realistic which does not happen with most spy movies.  Brad Pitt and Robert Redford gave great performances and should be recognized for them.  This is a must see movie! "},{"Title":"Good story line but few details out to lunch.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a very entertaining movie ruined by a few oversights.  The biggest problem with movies that follow a tight timeline like this one is the director forgot a few basics.  When one goes from 1960s - 1990s characters are going to age.  Well not in this age.  This is nothing compared to the fact that at 700 AM in the US is 700PM in China so how is it possible that the final scene is shown as a sunrise in China and in the morning in the US. In this day of age simple errors like this should not be overshadowed, as it is a common fact to most people that if you are the other side of the world you cannot both have a sunrise at the same time.  Great fun but Hollywood - all viewers are not ignorant and stupid. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but not a great film by any stretch...","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Three brief comments (1) The interesting action story would have been Brad Pitt in China, leading up to and away from the little bit that they did show... but then, there'd no need for Robert Redford at all. (2) Tony Scott should have gotten out of the way of the story... what's with all the B&W special-effect cuts and weird, ham-handed scene setups (like the helicopter shot of them on top of the building)? (3) Brad Pitt was a little disappointing (forced over-the-top anger), but he certainly had very little material to work with emotionally. "}{"Title":"Beautiful Men Blowing Up Stuff - The Perfect Date Movie!","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Espionage.  Accusations.  Governments.  Politics.Friendship.  Trust.  Betrayal.  Suspicion.Youth.  Idealism.  Commitment.  Rebellion.The Code.  The Job.  The Goal.  The Prize.Sacrifice.  Love.  Decision.  Beauty.Go. "},{"Title":"The lone ranger saves the day....ya right","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford refuses to be anything but charming in his movies. We will never see him as the bad guy. Women want him and Men want to be him. Give me a break alright....Spy Game was an entertaining movie, but it had a lot of details and sub-stories going on, which left the audience a little lost at times.The movie ended in a very unrealistic way. They could have ended it in a very convincing way, but unfortunately they didn't.The story was a mesh of patriotism, conspiracy theories, love, and war. It was very confusing, and had no message or meaning.The story could have been a great love story focusing on a man who leaves his duty to his country, drops everything, and puts his life in danger to save his woman.Kudos to cinematography and sound. They did a great job.Production was great at times, but committed blunders at others.Some of the characters who were supposed to be speaking Arabic in one Scene, were actually speaking gibberish. This could really offend some native Arabic speakers.I would give the movie a 6 for the cinematography and the sound.  "},{"Title":"More entertaining than I would like to admit...","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ...because I think Robert Redford relies so much more on charm than on any substantial acting talent. Even Brad Pitt makes him look bad. One of the best things about this ludicrous escape yarn, though, is the reality of the scenes in West Beirut circa 1985. The poverty and violent chaos ring true, one can only imagine, as a precursor of the cult of suicide that made the attacks of September 11 possible. Chilling, and worth the price of admission. Now, as for the depiction of a clandestine U.S. assault on Communist China, well...shut your eyes or your brain on that little detail. "},{"Title":"A great pair-up, yes, but the cameras sweep back and forth like a screendoor in a hurricane.","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A great pair-up, yes, but the cameras sweep back and forth like a screendoor in a hurricane. The life-like immersion in the CIA and foreign countries is breathtaking. This film is ruined by the constant roaming of the camera, though. Did I mention the camera won't stop moving around? GAH. "},{"Title":"I was very disappointed!","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Writer Michael Bechner needs to do his homework.  Clearly just putting two great actors together does NOT make for a great movie!  The acting was, of course, superb but the script had problems.  For example, (and this is not at all central to the plot) at one point Redford's character says that he first met Pitt's character 25 years ago when they fought together in Viet Nam.  25 years ago, Brad Pitt was only 12 years old!  Now I know one can say that he was playing someone older than he really is, but then the make-up artists should have made him look older.  Instead, Brad Pitt simply looked like the Brad Pitt of today. "},{"Title":"Likeable Spies with shady Coworkers","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A good movie for both Redford and Pitt.  All along hearing Robert coaching Brad on do's and don'ts but seeing him bend the rules at will.An unusual story but it was hard to pin down the time line for who was in Prison, why and for how long against the story being spun by Robert in meetings with his new Enemies.When is a human asset expendable?  History proves often- when high stakes politics, reputations, trade and treaties are involved.  This movie just put fresh faces, some circumstantial twists and very good acting to some old plots.   I would like to see it again just because I like it but also to understand the subplots better. "},{"Title":"Incredible...as in Not Credible, otherwise OK","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Numerous other members of the Imdb Corps have already mentioned the SD Padres hat that should have been brown and the Baywatch Boo-Boo.There are other factual errors that just make the film grate against me like the fact that the inmate is blowing bubbles when he was given chewing gum. (Secretly I hoped it was red light - green light gum from Mission Impossible) Pitt's hair is way, way too long to be in a USMC uniform.  There is Redford who looks every minute of 65 (is that his hair?) whether it is 1975 or 1991.  At least Howard Stern used some age-reversing makeup techniques in his life story movie. What else made me say, Oh, come on... during this film.  Pitt could have any woman and he chooses Little Miss Has Issues.  Hands down The Dish in the film is Charlotte Rampling! She looks younger here than in The Verdict! And those are the little things.  Admitted Ultra-liberal Redford is making a movie that makes our government look bad and he stages it in the last years of Bush 41. Wasn't the whole world still rocking and rolling over Desert Storm in 1991?  China had cooperated with the International Coalition and refused to veto our use of force in Kuwait.  This movie would have been better set in 1966 when China and the US still hated each other.    "},{"Title":"The spy who came in from the old","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Do you have a difficult time with the concept of life as a game? Well, Spy (as a) Game may help you answer the question whether life undercover would suit you. Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) takes his assignments seriously and regales at the idea that the lives at stake are only a part of a game. Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) takes on the task of transforming this specimen to a spook with panache - but then we're talking of Brad Pitt, aren't we? The new Redford (Pitt) meets the old Redford as the student/master relationship shows up on screen as well as in the story. Why do we love to see Brad Pitt beaten up? Fight Club had him beating up on himself.  He didn't walk away unscathed in Seven either.  Cinematography is this film's strong suit. The sound track builds suspense and keeps this film edgy.  But it's the story that keeps you engaged throughout.I'm a sucker for Redford films and am hoping for the next to match his `Sundance' role. He reprised his All the President's Men tortoise shells for this film and came quite close to besting his previous performances.This film has energy, excitement and intrigue and is well worth the two and a half hour investment even if you don't like Brad Pitt.The retiring CIA agent Muir is brought back into the game to beat the 24-hour deadline on Bishop's life. You will be taken back to the bad old days of the CIA and Nam where these two kindred spirits met. Muir takes Bishop under his wing to East Germany, to the Cold War and the Wall to learn the tricks of the trade. There's a synergy between these actors that serves this film well as you want them to - more than just survive - succeed.You've seen the trailers specifying Pitt is the idealist Boy Scout. Shoot by numbers until he's reprogrammed to look out for himself (when it comes down to you or your assets, send flowers), be aware of the information he discloses (you gave them four pieces about yourself and only got one in return) and lie with consistency (and that's four lies you've got to make true). The charm of a spy tale is the blur between truths from fiction. Muir identified several wives spanning his 30-year career although he wakes in an early scene alone. Is Nathan Muir an anagram? Does Muir really give it all up for his protégé in the end? I don't know but if he does, I've got the title for the sequel ready to roll.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen...","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went in thinking it would be ok, not necessarily expecting all that much. I should have remembered how great Brad Pitt was in Snatch and Fight Club. He did an incredible job in this movie, as did Robert Redford.  The plot twists and turns throughout, and it's just an amazing movie.  If you haven't seen it yet, you're missing out. "},{"Title":"Will Smith and Gene Hackman - pah!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went to the cinema last night having no idea what to watch knowing with deafening certainty I was not going to wander into any of the Harry Potter screenings. After deciding against Zoolander I opted to go and see Spy Game. I certainly enjoyed Enemy of the State - even for a film with Will Smith in it. However as Spy Game opened I knew this was a different league altogether. For a start it is much darker - there are lots of interiors of prisons, dank German cafes and Bosnian Streets - the plot is a lot less fantasical and before I go any further - the soundtrack was stunning. It alternated between high octane guitars and electronic beats to quiet piano moments to huge orchestral expanses. This really helped the atmosphere of the film, especially in the Bosnian scenes. If you are looking for an alternative to Harry Potter before LOTR comes out I cannot reccomend this strongly enough. Robert Redford is very good as the CIA agent about to retire and equally Brad Pitt as the rebellious agent who works for Redford. If I have one criticism of the film and I think that it is important to have - it is that you cannot take your concentration off the action for one second. I dropped some popcorn, uttered, Where has that gone? and returned to my viewing to find I had to retrack to find out what was going on.But it is this fast pace of events which ensure you don't realise it runs for over two hours. I know it is a false hope but this film deserves so much more attention that Harry Potter. "}{"Title":"Lovely","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A good, old fashioned corridors of power with backstabbing and coniving thriller/spy movie. Tony Scott has realy matured and while older brother is moving more toward action movies (Gladiator, Black Hawk Down) Tony seems to be moving away, succesfully I might add.May even forgive my favourite director for The Fan at this rate. "},{"Title":"Best Movie of the year","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is one of those rare movies that is even better than I'd hoped for.  I went in expecting a solid 7 grade movie, and walked away wondering if it just didn't justify a 9 rating.  It is one of those rare movies that really never drags.  Not at any point during the film did I find my mind wandering elsewhere.  Immediately upon leaving the theater afterwards, I decided that this is definitely one worth seeing at the box office again.  Robert Redford comes out of seclusion every couple of years to do a few movies, almost as if to remind everyone that he's still around.  His recent efforts (including the Last Castle) had not (in my opinion) been anything to write home about.  This one is.  Brad Pitt does an excellent job as well.  I hope that he will take more roles such as this in the future, and leave movies like The Mexican to lesser lights.  The ONLY problems I had with this movie are a pair of anachronisms that would be apparent only to a select few.  Firstly, Brad Pitt wears a San Diego Padres hat during the film, in the Lebanon Segment, that was set in 1985.  The Padres hat he wears is a modern one, not the one worn by the team back in '85.  Clips from Baywatch are shown, including Baywatch icon, Pamela Anderson.  This was set in 1991.  Anderson wasn't on the show until 1992.  These are silly, I realize (and I doubt too many other viewers of this movie would either recognize them, or care in the least) but I noticed them, and just wondered if anyone else had!   "},{"Title":"`Don't hate the player, hate the game.'","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  `It's not how you play the game. It's how the game plays you.' No truer words have spoken on this hard lesson of love, lust and relationship. Thanks to `Spy Game', we now learn there is another arena where &#145;players' play &#150; espionage. And it involves three individuals Robert Redford &#150; the player, Brad Pitt &#150; the played, and Catherine McCormack &#150; the bait.The film opens with the capture of an espionage agent Tom Bishop (Pitt). News of his capture reaches a retiring CIA operative Nathan Muir (Redford), his one-time teacher. In a cross-examination by the CIA brasses, Muir narrates the career profile of his one-time protégé via a series of flashback sequences. Espionage looks exciting, if Bishop's life is any indication &#150; tremendous explosions, people getting killed, many heated arguments with superiors, and sleeping with a total stranger. A good director also helps, and Tony Scott is to be commended for his visually stunning treatment of the sequences. Each is a riveting yet grim presentation of a day in the life of a spy. You'd think you're watching a full-length episode in each sequence. Within 24 hours, Muir plays the biggest game of his life to rescue Bishop, after finding out that his mission was to rescue, of all things, a female prisoner Elizabeth Hadley (McCormack) who is imprisoned in China and whom Bishop frequently sleeps with. Errr&#133; no, they are not in love, not really. There are no exchanges of `I love you' between the two.`Spy Game' shows that Muir can still play the game very well even in his retirement. If the movie attempts to convey that true love conquers all even in the world of espionage, it is overshadowed by Muir's playing ways. Scott needed a conclusion that does not ooze a romantic happily-ever-after schmuck to screenwriter Michael Frost Beckner's masterpiece. So he had the leading spotlight on Muir, and in the process relegating Bishop to a flashback character by downplaying Bishop's daring prison rescue. Little of Bishop is shown after his capture, except in the flashbacks. And Scott makes it clear that Bishop's own rescue is Muir's design. Clearly, Muir is the biggest player of all. He played Bishop and the CIA bosses, though one would wonder if he played himself by spending his retirement savings to spring Bishop and his partner from prison. More importantly, why would he even care for someone whom he no longer is on speaking and professional terms with for more than 5 years? Bishop, as smart as he thinks he is, never realizes that he is being played by Muir and, to a lesser degree, Hadley &#150; no better bait than sexual temptation. Speaking of Hadley, her character background is unknown. Aside from a brief explanation why she had to flee London and her global charity service, that is little factoid about her. Her presence in the film is clear to feed Bishop's sexual fix. It seems that the only reason why he goes out to rescue her from a communist prison is so that he can bed her once more. But wait a minute! Why is a woman imprisoned in an all-men's prison? (Look, I know this is China, and last time I checked, the Chinese do not practice co-ed housing!) But seriously, McCormack's talent is wasted here. She is quite alluring as Bishop's squeeze sporting a British accent, but nothing in her performance stands out or is remotely memorable. Pitt, on the other hand, is a fantastic character actor. He is in fine form here, and works very well with Redford in heightening the tensions between their characters, and is very convincing in his own scenes too. Redford, unfortunately, is an old bag by himself. He is clearly past his prime and would have been stiff if it was not for his cast members that shared scenes with him. His best moments are with Pitt, though there are not many of them. He is also good next to , who plays his secretary. In his own scenes, which includes 10-plus minutes of phone dialogue, he is uninteresting. He is a little better when cross-examined by the CIA brasses in the conference room.By the end of `Spy Game', we see two types of espionage the field agent (Bishop) and the executive spook (Muir). The former profiled in flashback narration, the latter by his `real' time activities. It would help facilitate your viewing pleasure if you approach `Spy Game' as a character drama film first and action film second. Expect just an action film, and you will be played. But remember, `Don't hate the player, hate the game.'Spellcaster's Level 6  "},{"Title":"Gripping and Insightful....with only some slow moments!!!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen many movies dealing with espionage; and went into this one thinking it would be entertaining but lacking a good solid plot. This movie was awesome...It was not only gripping, but had an intricate plot always wanting more. I always thought Pitt lacked acting skills, but this movie brings them back to life. Spy Game is a must see for action and excitement. "},{"Title":"Predictable","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The classic Hollywood film recipe -- get a couple of big name stars, add some action in this case terrorism and war in Beirut, Vietnam and China and sod anything else -- particularly the script.Actually, this film is a little better than that, but to be 100% honest not too much.Retiring CIA operative leader Robert Redford is disturbed to see that his former golden boy Brad Pitt is being hung out to dry and left to die in a Chinese prison.  I'll not add any spoilers, but it doesn't take Einstein to work out what happens.  This is Hollywood after all.Redford is good, as he always is in this type of role, but Pitt is disappointing as usual.  One to see if there's not a lot else on -- a very average film. "},{"Title":"Quite good.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Warningpotential spoilers!On the day of his retirement,A CIA agent(Redford)learns that his protège (Pitt)has been arrested in China for espionage and is going to get a bullet in the head within 24 hours,so Redford spends the movie talking their missions through flashbacks,as other CIA guys listen.Exciting,and super slick action/drama with fine performances from Pitt & Redford.Tony Scott's directing style is visible.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"It felt long but suspenseful.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Redford and Pitt worked well together, the commaraderie is believeable.It's interesting to see that Redford's not so vain as to get a facelift or collagen injections--the man has aged! But what a man.  I'd love to see Redford and Pitt in a father-son movie, their resemblance is so striking.Back to Spy Games.   Good flick, action packed, slow in some parts but not painfully so.  Recommend seeing at least on video. "},{"Title":"Superior film making in direction, acting, and editing.","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie hums right along, with truly authentic atmospheres and settings. Director Tony Scott, brother of another famous director (Ridley Scott) uses some of the camera techniques that he first showed us in Enemy of the State.  Flawless acting from cinema great Robert Redford scoots the storyline right along with zeal and interest.  Brad Pitt, who obviously came into his own as a serious actor before this movie, has sharpened his skills in this film.  The multiple talents brought to this movie make it a very worthwhile cinematic experience.   "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie. It wasn't the action flick that I originally went to the movie theatre looking to see but it was still great. Robert Redford and Brad Pitt's acting was perfect. There were funny lines that fit in perfectly, there was the perfect amount of suspense, etc. If you like spy movies, see Spy Game! I give it 10/10 "},{"Title":"Great sequences","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by Redford's acting, but I was most impressed by the way the story was unveiled to the audience.  The way events were sequenced was very interesting, kept my attention and helped the movie to move smoothly between the present and the descriptions of past events.  It was entertaining. "}{"Title":"My Opinion","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Just got back from seeing SPY GAME with a friend.He loved it;I thought it had a lot of holes in the story,which kept flip-flopping back and forth between present and past.I thought the whole film was contrived.I love spy and suspense films and this just wasn't it for me.I kept waiting for the film to deliver and instead was disappointed.It's an okay movie--but I would wait until it goes on video and get it at your local library for free. I just didn't think alot of it was very believeable.And,if someone would clue me in about the doctor,did he go into the building,or didn't he? My friend said he did and I said he was kept out by the forces outside.If you want to see a good spy movie,rent THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT with Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson or Redford's other picture about espionage,SNEAKERS.2** out of ten "},{"Title":"falls just short","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSThere's some elements here that don't sit right with me. Misuses military resources out of guilt. He risks Marines' lives just because he made a mistake? This has the same sort of theme as Clear and Present Danger. I hate to admit it, but the Clancy film illustrated the government betrayal much better than this did. Danger paints an even grimmer (comical, even) picture of the behind-the-scenes goings-on of the CIA, but Ryan's actions are easier to get behind. He's horrified when he finds out he's been organizing a secret military operation the whole time and moves to make things right immediately. Muir didn't give a damn about Elizabeth Hadley, who he put in a Chinese prison knowingly, until his own man was put on death row. A better ending would have been the CIA stopping Muir at the gate and arresting him. Just seems like he should have had to serve some kind of punishment. The whole film condemns the methods the CIA uses to achieve its ends, which Muir is the master of. Few in the Agency ever have to answer for anything, so his escape is symbolic, even typical--which is why he should be made to answer for his last operation and those that came before. But then we're back to justifying the budget no downer endings allowed. Whether the visible, hardly secret, involvement of the CIA in Operation Enduring Freedom had any effect on Spy Game is a mystery. Scott's direction a bit too much flash. Sometimes a scene doesn't need a moving camera. Trust the actors, trust the audience. For instance, the scene shot atop the Fujifilm building--overdone. On the other hand, there is some fine cross-cutting action in several scenes; in particular I remember the Vietnam flashback scene where Bishop is first used as a sniper by Muir. Likewise the film's centerpiece, Bishop's race to get the doctor to the physical where he'll poison the terrorist leader, is flawless. These are all shot selection and editing; simple, elegant filmmaking. Spy Game does successfully illustrate its point, which is to ask, Can a human being ever be just a means to an end? How important is the 'greater good' in the face of sacrificing a person? I wish I could give Spy Game a higher recommendation.Grade B-     "},{"Title":"Worthwhile","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a more thoughtful and intelligent version of so many films of its genre lately. It reminded me of the taught and intricate spy films of the 60s and 70s. Though implausible in many ways, the film stays true to itself, without any glaring plotholes or nobody would say THAT moments.However, I still think Tony Scott is better at style than substance. I wanted to feel for the characters, but I couldn't. I felt manipulated by the soundtrack; you know, when we're supposed to feel sad, they play the wailing woman music, when we're supposed to feel excited, they pump up the techno. It felt forced to me. Silence would've been better, even more suspenseful.8 of 10. "},{"Title":"This movie made me a Robert Redford fan","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My favorite kinds of films are the intellectual thrillers where you have to run, mentally, to keep up with the pace of the plot, lest you be left behind.  The kind of movie where you park yourself in your seat and skip the concession counter or bathroom visits.  The Usual Suspects is one such example.  Spy Game is another.  There is no melodramatic stupidity, no would-be witty one-liners, no unrealistic deus ex machina scenarios to insult the intelligence of the viewer.  Instead, we're treated to a brilliantly intricate series of events woven together by a very talented cast.  Robert Redford should get a nomination for Best Actor based on his performance in this movie, and I'm now interested in checking out other roles he's been in to see if they pack the same wallop.Spy Game details the events of a single day; the last day of CIA veteran Nathan Muir's (Redford's character) career in the agency.  Muir discovers that his one-time partner Tom Bishop (played by Brad Pitt) has been captured in China during a covert operation and a large part of the movie involves flashbacks where he recounts his experiences teaching Bishop the ins and outs of espionage.  The best part of this movie involves Muir's maneuvers against both time and the agency itself to save Bishop from harm.If I had an objection to anything about this film I would have to admit that the flashbacks do not show either Pitt or Redford looking a day younger even though one such recollection spans sixteen years.  However, this small detail is the tiniest of cracks in the tremendous wall this film represents.I rarely see films in the theater more than once, but am considering a return visit to enjoy Spy Game once more.  I doubt I will be satisfied waiting until it's released on DVD in six months. "},{"Title":"Excellent Flick - Go and see it.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I've seen in a long time.  The balance and cycle between drama and action was excellent.  Given the number of changes between drama and action sequences, and the framework through which it was presented, the flow of the movie was remarkable.  It was well acted, the sound track was good and the story was compelling.  Both main characters were likable and most importantly, believable.  I liked that fact that the heroes were not always very heroic.  They were very human, experiencing moments of doubt, conflict and weakness.  I haven't completed my C.I.A. operative training yet, but I think most of the tactics and stragies employed by the main characters are probably true to life.  I rated this movie as a 9 out of 10.  There is very little to criticize about this movie. One weakness I see is the opening Another weakness would be the Doctors development.  I think they missed a good opportunity to show how someone could be manipulated.  You'll have to see the movie to find out what I mean. Go and see it now. "},{"Title":"First Rate Flick","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoiler I went in as a Bob and Brad fan.  I came out appreciating them even more. These are two fine actors that bring real emotion and compassion to their characters.  Yes, this is a film that we've all seen before seasoned vet on his last day saving the 'rookie'.  But Redford is mesmorizing throughout and Pitt brings a confidence, bravado, and ease to the role that make it work. The mentor/mentee relationship is clear.  And I have to say, Pitt (bloodied beyond recognition and without saying a word) brought tears to my eyes in the final sequence with his quiet recognition of Redford's compassion and validation of their relationship. "},{"Title":"Good acting can't save weak premise.","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, Robert Redford rarely screws up a role, so its no surprise that his performance is solid.  Brad Pitt may be the next Redford--he is a better actor than he has to be, given his good looks and current buzz. But this movie is really not very good. No particular part is just awful, or hard to watch, but as a whole its hard to sit through.  The premise is weak, all the actors save Redford and Pitt are two-dimensional. I expect to see the best part of an action/adventure pic in the trailer, but not in a (purported) suspense movie. Save your money, wait for HBO. "},{"Title":"Grape Jelly for Lunch","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, I hate writing a one line summary.  Anyways, this is not the action thriller I thought it would be.  That said, it was a very enjoyable, psychological film with several twists and turns.  While the ending is predictable, that's not the point of the film.  It's all about character development and Robert Redford was outstanding.  Quick witted and sharp, he dominates this film over Pitt.  Not to say that Brad Pitt didn't do a fine job as the young, brash but talented Tom Bishop.  Muir almost adopts Pitt and you get that father son tough love feeling from this movie more than you would a buddy buddy flick.  Definitely worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Excellent; best espionage film in years","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is a superior espionage film that succeeds because of it's two leads, Brad Pitt and Robert Redford.  Pitt gives a great performance but the star here is Redford in his best performance in a while.  The plot is great, full of exciting happenings, twists, and sly dialogue.  Still, the two leads are the reason the movie works.  I saw it at a theater and I plan on buying or renting it a soon as it is out on video.   "},{"Title":"No more than average thriller","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  OK, there was nothing inherently wrong with this picture.  It had all Tony Scott's trademarks rich visual style, dazzling cinematography and beautiful production designs; making it very pretty to look at. It also has two big stars in it who are good actors (even if Pitt seems to be in auto-pilot for this one). It even had Catherine McCormack in it as some reasonably good eye candy.However, it doesn't really rise above the average, run-of-the-mill-post-cold-war-international-espionage-blowing-up-things-all- over-the-world-and-doing-clever-things-with-gadgets. It's even got the stereotypical old spy saying We used to be able to tell who the good guys and the bad guys were. Although Scott never allows it to get corny or unrealistic, you still get the feeling that it's just a glorified Bond film that's given a bit more thought to its set pieces.In a few years time this film will be largely forgotten. You'll be having a chat with your mates in the pub 'Yeah, what was that film called? Something to do with spies. It had Brad Pitt and that old guy with the face that had more lines than a detention class. Yeah, what was that film called'Being an average film, I've given it a very average 5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Albert R. Broccoli Revisited","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Movies for Guys Who Like Movies... This film is Tony Scott's best film since Crimson Tide and carries a lot of the excitement that film had. It is similar to James Bond/Mission Impossible only with much more depth. This movie seems a bit too long especially for a action film.  Although 2 hours may not appear to be long the film could have fared a little bit better if the it was cut down a bit longer. Redford gives a the usual Redford performance, thats a good thing!  Pitt gives a decent performance as well but not one of his best (12 Monkeys, Fight Club, Snatch, Seven)- even considering he is not the main character. One thing about this film that I found quite annoying was Scott's use of the 'Pan-Around and STOP-Jerk-Quick Zoom-In' as it also was in Enemy of The State.If you like typical Scott films you will probably enjoy this one as well. It's worth the $8 to see it in the theater. You will leave the film satisfied. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  'Spy Game' has restored a bit of my faith in Hollywood. When I first saw the previews I thought this was going to be a James Bond type of movie. How wrong I was, but how refreshing to see a spy film which does not glamourise the business. The plot, although at times incomprehensible due to my inadequacies, was totally plausible. The 'look' of the film was very good. It was a bit like watching a news bulletin - true to life, and no far-fetched heroics. Brad Pitt, whom I do not normally rush to see, was very good in this, but it is Redford who is holding it all together. The continuing scenes in the CIA head office are very good. Many 'spy' tricks are pulled off, some which I had not previously seen in any other movies. Although not an action-packed film, the fast pace of the camerawork and a water-tight script (There wasn't any duff dialogue)make this a refreshing change from the norm. An interesting thing was that the trailer, as is so often the case, contained quite a bit of stuff which wasn't in the final cut; this helped, because the stuff they cut out was the usual Hollywood candyfloss pizzaz. Are they learning at long last that the audiences can still enjoy movies without needing contrived humour, etc? If 'Spy Game' is anything to go by, then I would say they are. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes real spies. Redford could get an Oscar for this. "},{"Title":"Go and see it NOW!","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this movie.  It is intelligent, exciting and beautifully shot. The teaming of Tony Scott, Dan Mindel (DOP) and Christian Wagner (Editor) creates a 'look' that is quite similar to Enemy of the State. Both leading men are great, although Stephen Dillane does his best to steal the limelight! I would recommend this movie - it is a very entertaining way to spend a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is really great.  I am a big fan of both Robert Redford and especially Brad Pitt. The movie has a great story line and the acting is very solid. Brad Pitt is at his best. If you have seen 12 Monkeys, Seven, and A River Runs Through It, you will understand what I mean by this comment. The movie held my attention all the way with great photography, action, and story line. Some people say the flash backs were too much, but I didn't have a problem with any part of this film.  I really enjoyed it. I would have to say that it is one of the best movies I have seen this year.  GO SEE IT!  It is movie making and movie acting at its best.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie!","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Everything I'd hoped for in a movie, if you like conspiracy movies that don't suffer from weak plots and actors like 'Big Willy' in, this is for you. Has a bit of everything, from conspiracy to black-ops missions , totally immersive without being overly political. Also outstanding performances from Robert Redford and Brad Pitt, well worth the cash to see this gem.  "},{"Title":"A fine night's entertainment.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  'Spy Game' is a fine night's entertainment, especially on the big screen. Although I did not find Brad Pitt's performance particularly distinctive, Redford was in top form. This film will keep you engaged throughout, allowing you to forget whatever is going on in your real life for a couple of riveting hours. However, as much as my friend & I liked the movie, we did find most of our post-viewing discussion consisted of picking out far-fetched and ill-conceived plot devices. The beauty of this film is that it is fast-paced and engaging enough that you don't notice these problems while you're watching it, only upon further reflection after leaving the theater. If you like Robert Redford, Brad Pitt, or the spy thriller genre in general, you won't be disappointed by this movie. However, if you're looking for a 'serious', thoughtful movie, look elsewhere.   "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly hip and complex","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The opening sequence of Spy Game got my blood pumping, and I for one was surprised to find this thriller intriguing and engaging from start to finish.  Vaulting from CIA headquarters to Hong Kong to war-torn Vietnam to Beirut to seemingly dozens of European hot spots in the years between, the story dashes back and forth in time to reveal truths and half-truths of two agents played by Redford and Pitt.  The game of the title refers both to the life and death art of international espionage (chillingly highlighted -- or is it lowlighted? -- by American-enlisted suicide bombers), as well as the game Redford plays with the CIA executives as he weaves his version of events regarding his former protege.  Suspend your implausibility detectors for a couple hours and discard some of the more flashy-for-flashy's-sake effects (how many times to we really need that gyro-scope-whip-circling shot?).  But overall, it's pretty fun -- an above-average action-thriller. "},{"Title":"An intricate, complex, seamless film that could have been...","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Simplicity and chronology are two concepts of film that if well used, can revolutionize a film. On the other hand, if they are misused, they can create a dilemma. In watching &#145;Spy Game', the dilemma which arose, was that of either enjoying the film for what it was, or critiquing the film for what it wanted to be. Director Tony Scott has brought is some truly great films such as &#145;Top Gun', &#145;True Romance' and &#145;Enemy of the State'. In this film, his most ambitious film to date, he weaves an intricate, complex and seamless mix between the present and the past. &#145;Spy Game' is told in a series of flashbacks that seem to progressively obtain length as the film moves. Yet, some may say that the film moves very slowly. Robert Redford stars as a CIA operative Nathan Muir who in his earlier years recruited, trained and created his protégé, Tom Bishop, played by Brad Pitt. The movie is set in the present and retells their encounters and now that the Chinese hold Bishop captive for espionage and a likely execution, Muir does everything in his power to set him free. The catch is &#150; Muir is on the brink of retirement and is almost helpless to save his young &#145;Boy Scout'. There is much more to the film than this simple synopsis, yet the rest is entailed in complex issues, unrealistic CIA access scenes (e.g. the authoritative forged document) and overused &#145;speed up' shots that try to set up a scene yet serve as nothing more than a repetitive and tiresome editing technique. The film's concept is quite ingenious, yet the manner in which it is presented may to some be quite irreverent. We have a film here that attempts to be something, which it is not. The film's greatest weakness is the storytelling. It complicates a simple premise and bogs it down in flashbacks and a slow second act, which merely serves to set up the climax by placing both our characters in turbulent situations. While Bishop has only a couple of hours left until his execution, Muir is held by the CIA in order to answer questions relating to Bishop's captivity and Muir himself must scramble and orchestrate Bishop's rescue. The film remains tight and tense, especially with Scott's still frame shots counting down the hours left until Bishop's execution.  Furthermore, Scott likes capturing elevated scenes with a helicopter using a &#145;Wes Cam' shooting style that has our characters as the centrepiece in the frame while the camera speeds up and revolves 360 degrees in a manic manner.That said, it is a well-made film that has some great moments and some truly terrific acting. Brad Pitt seems to be maturing as an actor and is slowly creeping away from his &#145;studly' image by coupling himself with some great actors and engaging himself in some great roles that display both his charm and his acting range. As for Redford, he seems to enjoy playing a &#145;know it all spy' who can outwit and outlast his oppressors as they seek for answers. Pitt and Redford are fantastic together, and although they do not share as much screen time, as one would expect, when they do, it is well worth it. The direction of the film is quite MTV &#150; like and Scott (Director Ridley Scott's brother) is quite familiar with this style. He employs some techniques brought forward in &#145;Enemy of the State' and he certainly knows how to make a film tense, even when it is not supposed to be. As aforementioned in the introduction, there was only problem when viewing the film.  Should one rate this film for what it was, or what it attempted to be? Unfortunately, one must look at what was presented and not what could have been. &#145;Spy Game' tries hard to be a different kind of spy film. It is not a full throttle action film, nor a thriller, nor a drama. It is a combination of all three that seems to be all over the place and cannot be content on settling into one genre. Furthermore, it relies on a romantic subplot that pits Pitt against choosing his job, or his love. Also, as mentioned earlier, the storytelling is quite demanding that will bog down this film in key times. Yet, it still is a fresh piece of film that will retain one's attention if not for the acting, its' visceral visual style that is reminiscent of Steven Soderbergh's &#145;Traffic'. Upon the flashback sequences, a beige, sandy tint is employed to differentiate between the present and the past. Also, during the war sequences in several war torn countries during the retelling, a natural and un-glamorized perspective is presented through its grainy look and raw editing. And who can forget Scott's classic slanted angle shots during the climax in CIA headquarters further reminiscent of his &#145;Crimson Tide' climactic sequences. It is evident that Scott presents us with nothing new except for a stylized story telling technique that unfortunately deters the film rather than ultimately saving it.Giancarlos' Rating **  "},{"Title":"one heck of a cool movie","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had high expectations for this film and I was not let down.  It is an extremely stylish film, due mostly to Tony Scott's hyper-kinetic direction. The plot is half decient and the action sequences are well staged. There are also lots of behind the scenes stuff about how the CIA works that I found quite interesting.  A great film.  "},{"Title":"A Very Refreshing Look @ The Dirty Deeds Of The CIA","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It was very nice to see a Tony Scott film that was free from the oppression of Jerry Bruckheimer. I was glad to see a movie about the grey areas of spying and about the US' involvement via the CIA abroad in the 70's and 80's. What I like is that there are no clear lines, and unlike a Jerry Bruckheimer produced film, it wasn't bombarded with American flags and mindless patriotism. It was a very insightful look into the ways and means of two fictional spies (Robert Redford and Brad Pitt) to accomplish various missions over a 15 year period, dealing with both politics of the agency and emotional ties with assets. I really like how they showed that spying isn't as James Bond as most people think. Simple things like a piece of gum can be the difference between life and death, and tools like cigarettes are much more effective than carrying a gun. Although some of the scenes of terrorism were very graphic and horrific, I think it is important that we see what is really behind these terrible common occurrences in other countries. If Top Gun is what you are looking for in a war movie, don't see Spy Game, because it is a very different and much better look at goes down because the CIA finds it in its best interest.9/10  "}{"Title":"Cool Video, Music, Execution, but still Forgetable","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Another interesting comic book movie.It was like a Spy Music Video. A very well done Spy Music Video.The characters were all what the movie needed them to be, any love interest felt forced. The music did a good job of adding to the movie. There were a couple of scenes where the music was the best part.It was clever, it had some humor, it really didn't have any significant lulls. With all of that, it doesn't stick. It was fun to experience, but there wasn't any connection with any of the characters. Nothing to connect to.Don't forget the popcorn. "},{"Title":"Redford & Scott","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It is unlikely Robert Redford would have endorsed Top Gun. It is just as unlikely that he would have endorsed Days of Thunder. But Tony Scott has to some extent come of age, and this movie might very well point us to where cinema is going in the next few years.This is a straight Hollywood production directed by someone from Scotland. It has Redford's stamp all over it, and I will not disagree with others who claim Redford steals the movie. But if he does, it's a nice polite steal, and the other actors are not disadvantaged by it.And because of the ending, you can't help but leave the theatre with a smile on your face. Here is where the good guys win out. Here is where one of the heroes breaks his first and only Golden Rule to help a friend in need.This is also a very ambitious movie. No cheap shots in this one, thank you. Check the filming locations in your left navigational sidebar. It's filmed in Berlin, Budapest, Casablanca (yes in Morocco), London, Ouarzazate (Morocco again), Oxford (in England, not Mississippi), Tököl (Hungary), and of course the Langley/DC area. That's ambitious, that's the way it should ALWAYS be done!Superlative.Postscript Four Years Later Brilliant KeeperThis movie wears better for repeated viewing. Not to be doing this every day, but still and all. First view in a theatre left us satisfied but not aware we'd seen a film close to being a masterpiece.One can't say enough about the storywriter, the screenwriter, the composer, and the actors. They're all brilliant.Made by Tony 'Top Gun' Scott, this movie has editing cuts which might distract you on first viewing, but this is not a bubble gum movie like Top Gun. This movie seems to address morals and ethics and deal very well with them in a heroic tale.It's only a couple of hours, and it brings you a twenty four hour slice of life that nevertheless encompasses several lifetimes with action and intrigue spanning several continents.To say more about what it's about might spoil it for you - take a chance on this one. Very highly recommended. It leaves you feeling warm and fuzzy inside. Makes you want to kiss the wife and hug the kids, it's that good.Second Postscript One Year LaterCaught this one on our country bumpkin channel tonight and discovered a plot twist about fifteen minutes from the end none of us had seen before. Unfortunately this changes the entire texture of the movie, moving it into the realm of the CIA 'homo fratboy' 'gee aren't we clever' and takes away its soul and its pathos. Not even Redford's character comes off unscathed as a total hero anymore. Pity. Cause to reassess. Marking down one notch to '7' for now. "},{"Title":"On target entertainment","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What do you have if you take Robert Redford and Brad Pitt, charismatic stars from two generations, and combine them with virtuoso director Tony Scott? A clever-crafted, furiously-paced thriller that should appeal to an audience from the teenage to the retired &#150; that's what. Redford &#150; who has directed Pitt but never starred with him &#150; is veteran CIA controller Nathan Muir who is on his last day at the Agency and, in movie land, retirement day always means trouble. In this case, former CIA assassin Tom Bishop (Pitt) has been arrested by the Chinese, is about to be executed in 24 hours, and has been abandoned by his erstwhile employers.The action jumps from China and Vietnam to Berlin and Beirut and always back to CIA Headquarters in Virginia, while &#150; even before the opening credits and for the next two hours - there are some compelling action sequences, frenetic camera work and an excellent sound track. This is a film which requires, even demands, constant attention, never letting up the pace and the tension. Much of the story line &#150; especially the finale &#150; is totally implausible, but this is entertainment not documentary and, as such, it delivers on target.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Without retelling the story, just a few comments about the general quality of the movie. Excellent story. A few implausible situations, but that is to be expected from an action movie. The make-up department could have done a better job with Redford, in the flashback sequences. Redford and Pitt gave strong performances; although I would have liked to see Brad Pitt do more. I think it could have worked to enhance the movie, and could have been accomplished in five to ten effectively developed minutes.This is a very, very good movie on most levels. Photography, musical score, plot development, editing, and acting, were all well above average. One of the very best adult oriented films of the year. Definitely a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fantastic","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great movie.  It was very refreshing to see an intelligent, well-made movie, especially considering some of the other films that are out.  This is a very dense story, with many characters and plot-twists, so make sure you are ready to pay attention and GO SEE THIS IN A GOOD THEATER. "},{"Title":"A Nice, Intelligent Thriller","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The trailer for the movie expected me to see the standard American movie formula; namely the typical shoot-em up blow em up waste of money that you usually see these days.  Well, except for the ending which I found to be totally implausible, I was engaged and thinking (albeit not that hard) throughout the movie, which these days should be considered a victory.  I thought the timing particularly after September 11th to help my appreciation of the film, that there are enemies of the state out there, and that there probably are covert actions and double dealing of the type that is dealt with here, although I suspect that most of the activity that happened to Redford and Pitt throughout the movie may have been experienced by a whole cadre of agents.  Redford in particular I thought was effective as  the jaded cynical old fox who brings all his skills to bear to help out his protege.  The whole substory about Beirut was very well done; you almost felt like you were there, and the suicide bombings really hit home hard.  I spent a precious ten minutes figuring out where I'd seen Pitt's girlfriend from; she's Mel Gibson's first lover in Braveheart; very good here I thought for a small role.  All in all, you could do worse than plunk down (gasp!) $12.90 here in Canada to watch it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"A spy movie unlike the rest!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I went into this movie thinking it would be the typical spy movie, with boring concepts and unbelievable situations... however, as is typical from Redford and Pitt, it surpassed my expectations completely! These two actors have an incredible amount of on-screen chemistry. Couple that with Michael Mann's crisp and fresh style of shooting and directing and you'll see that Spy Game is a fun and clever spy movie that doesn't rely solely on ridiculous situations. It works because the mentor-student relationship is lifelike, and thus the tricks and turns make sense and are enjoyable! See this movie!  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you haven't seen this movie yet then get off your butts and go see it. I'm only 13 and i thought that this was a GREAT movie. When i first went to see it i was only seeing it cuz my mom wanted to watch it, and i'm happy that she chose this movie cuz i really enjoyed it too!! "},{"Title":"A very good movie","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The style of the movie was different than I expected, but I think it's probably the best thing about this movie. The 24 hour count-down started before we knew who any of the characters were, but they are well developed through a series of flashbacks. I was a little turned off by this at first, but only for a few minutes. Then the movie had my full attention. Pretty soon, I genuinely cared about the characters played well by Brad Pitt and Robert Redford. (Redford steals the show.) Redford's character always keeps one step ahead of his CIA buddies, and I loved watching him do it. The relationship between Redford and Pitt is a student-teacher one, not father-son one. This works, but I think the movie could have done with a LITTLE more of the father-son thing.This movie is more of a think-piece than it looked in previews, so anybody expecting brainless action will probably be disappointed. I, on the other hand, was glad it was what it was. Certainly worth checking out. ;)8/10 "},{"Title":"Well... it LOOKED nice. Wish I could say the same for Robert Redford.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say?This movie is ALL OVER THE PLACE and never really settles down enough to become GREAT, but it had some pretty expensive tape to sort of magically stick everything together in a comprehendible story. If you just sit and veggy out for awhile, you will ooh and ahh at the perty colors.Nice cinematography. Not much for composition, but the Vietnam scenes looked very dark and golden, and otherwordly. There was really no point to this movie, but it wasn't torture either. Although the film whisks you away to a hundred lovely locations during Redford's elegaic flashbacks without connecting any great mystery together, you don't really care much about the plotlessness of it all because you just sort of get swept away in it anyway. These guys sure did a good job of making nothing VERY interesting, whether it was with some cool eeeethnic music, really fast/hip/overcranked editing and shots, or some useless slow motion!It's a good movie to get away from the real world for awhile. The biggest risk the film takes is when Redford briefly ponders the point of free trade. Is all the death and politics worth it for a toaster and other crappy appliances? Gladys was cool! She plays the token black person/sidekick/secretary, AND she's a woman! Alright! We killed 2 birds with one stone, we can now check off females and minorities in our equal opportunity checklist, Mr. Studio Exec!And boy, look at that CIA! If it was THAT easy to forge government documents, I'm surprised people haven't been using that trick already to get free cable put in their homes! Gee, no, that must be Redford's super-human intelligence pulling another fast one on our hilarious and gullible U.S. government! Hee hee. Ho Ho.Well, in conclusion.... This movie had a nice look to it. Good use of film speeds and filters, and they sure love setting that clip speed to %200 on the editing machine! Redford's skin might qualify this as a horror movie. Then again, another horror would be travelling all the way to Utah to attend Sundance and immediately be forced to watch The Legend of Bagger Vance. I'd choose the skin any day. Sorry, Mr. Redford.Beware, this movie draaaaags.You'll like this flick if you really enjoy anything Hollywood will continually throw money at until it looks hip and fresh and appears to have a story that was ripped off , BUT changed enough to feign originality. You will also like this movie if, like me, you were bored and someone was taking you to the movies for free and everything else was sold out so it was something to watch and it actually looked nice and flowed well so it was tolerable, but not very memorable.Then again, it seems from the other reviews here, that the majority of you will probably make up more of the former than the latter. So sure, go ahead and watch it. You'll probably wanna give it a frikken Oscar! "}{"Title":"Tony Scott has ALMOST made something watchable.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tony Scott never ceases to bore me.  Television commercials done up as feature films with over the top soundtracks and wonder bread casts.  This film is still all of those things, but it actually has some substance in there, somewhere.  The acting is fine, it's typically shot, technically slick and not a bad story.  Somewhere, though, there is a lack of respect for the audience, and an inability to really tell a story without hammering people over the head with everything.Little Tony is growing up.  Sort of.  It's a good rental for a cold winter night, but save your money and miss it in the theater.  While the press goes on about how the public needs this sort of crap to feed some false patriotism, in the end it is only a mildly entertaining spy movie, which fails to satisfy.  It's cotton candy for grown-ups. "},{"Title":"Well Crafted Spy Movie...","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of the best movies I have seen in a long time.  As always Brad Pitt is absolutely amazing.  He is an amazing actor.  Robert Redford does a good job also.  He reminds me of Kevin Spacey in Usual Suspects. Everyone should see this movie, it is truly amazing.  It is rated R, but that was only for minor language problems and some situational violence.  I recommend it to people interested in intense espionage related films.  "},{"Title":"Dynamic and Fast-Paced Thriller!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game starts by pulling you into a fast-paced thriller and never lets up!  Great action, acting and motion with multiple locations and intrigue. The plot twists keep the viewer on his toes! Watching the career of the young agent unfold through the reflections of the mentor great in the telling.  At the same time, real time drama interplays with the sealed off and cerebral world of National intelligence.Great moments between Robert Redford and Brad Pitt when the young agent is in training and later in rooftop meeting when recent actions have caused a riff. Separate scenes for each show the true talent each possesses.  In war scene, the look of shock after explosion on Brad Pitt's face.  For Redford, smoothness in all actions with all situations throughout the film. By the end we see main characters had to set aside the rules they had lived by with very high stakes.  "},{"Title":"Edge of Your Seat Entertainment","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My wife and I went into this film thinking that it would be good.  We both like good spy and suspense movies and thought this film would be a good diversion.  We were wrong.  This film was excellent.  We were on the edge of our seats the whole time and the middle east sequence was so intense that one might need a prevacid to endure it.  Both Robert and Brad turned in over the top performances and Tony Scott's direction was brilliant.  I find it incredible that two excellent director's (Tony and Ridley) are brothers (the Cohen brothers are good, but they always work together).  This film is a must see for anyone who loves the spy film genre or the actors and director. I give it 5 stars out of 5! "},{"Title":"All Filler; No Thriller!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  In the world of screenplays, flashbacks are usually a good indication of a flawed script. Spy Games gives you three long, uninteresting, flashbacks before the real story begins. Two of the flashbacks don't even tie into the finale. The story lacks intrigue, wit, and original characters. Rent Three Days of the Condor; The Hunt For Red October; The Ipcress File and The Day of the Jackal, instead.    "},{"Title":"I would have liked more Butch and Sundance.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Butch and Sundance are but a romantic memory. Robert Redford and Brad Pitt are the real game here Redford aging gracefully with facial lines and a cool that comes from forty years of being cool in movies; Pitt shedding his pretty-boy persona once again to be grubby and bloodied, to act with maturity even though he is 30 years younger than the Sundance Kid.Pitt has been imprisoned in China, and Redford tries to spring him, both having worked together as CIA operatives.  The first part of the film labors through flashbacks to bring up the history and character of the 2 protagonists.  But when Redford starts to put his plan into action, action effortlessly takes over the film.  Added to the energy of the duo's relationship is Catherine McCormack as an aid worker who falls for Pitt but may be more than she seems, perhaps a spy herself.  The connection between her and Pitt is actually better developed than his with Redford because of the plot intricacy with the latter and the easier emotional territory with the former.Director Tony Scott movies his `Enemy-of-the-State' cameras sometimes with annoying speed, whoosh pans often intruding. A scene atop the Fujifilm Building alternates between close-ups of the 2 stars and semicircular aerial shots to dizzying effect.  Of course, quick cuts and electronic imagery are prevalent in this and most other spy films set in the 90's. Please spare us those location titles and time notations-the 90's are history.But locations are a strength cinematographer Dan Mindel has taken Budapest, Oxford, Morocco, Berlin and evoked a yellowed Vietnam, gray Lebanon, and dark China with a beauty unusual and mysterious.  When De Niro and Hoffman joined in `Wag the Dog,' I was disappointed to see so many one shots, a signal that the actors were being filmed at different times.  In `Spy Game' it's not so much one shots as the distance between the actors, one in Washington and the other in China.  These boys have a chemistry when they are together, not because of the cliched older /younger man motif, but because they obviously respect each other and enjoy the company. I would have liked more Butch and Sundance. "},{"Title":"If you love action and violence, this may be the film for you.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPY GAMES   *___   Action/Drama   Robert Redford, Brad Pitt, Catherine McCormackIn China, a CIA operative is caught and sentenced to death only 24 hours later. In the US, his handler (Redford) tries to convince CIA bosses to mount a rescue rather than just write him off. To that end, Redford describes all the missions this particular operative has been involved in. We get to see these as flashbacks. You know how James Bond movies start with a high-intensity adventure that lasts about five minutes? So does SPY GAME. In fact, all the different missions Redford describes have the look of one of those James Bond opening sequences. Lots of action, explosions, car chases, and violence. One sequence involves a truck loaded with explosives crashing into a terrorist headquarters. The 5-story building collapses just like the WTC.And then there's the issue of Redford's appearance. In the present, Redford looks 70 years old. In the flashbacks, covering a span of 25 years, Redford looks 68. Brad Pitt doesn't age significantly, either. This movie has lots of steam and smoke. Maybe the producers got a deal on steam generators.Not being a lover of action/violence, I came very close to walking out of this film. Usually, by the end of the first reel, the question of 'Where is this film headed?' is answered. SPY GAMES didn't answer that until the end. But having successfully tied the story together, I upgraded it to one star. "},{"Title":"The end is its means","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When this movie came out I thought that a Pitt/Redford deal was about the names.  I was wrong because the way this panned out with the intrigue, suspense and end game provided what we the watching public enjoy. A thriller but a mental pause to what is really going on. Do we really know what happens is what happens here? Well I say if it were real life there's a lot more we do not and will not ever know.  The movie portrays that fantasy some of us have and others fret.  To be an operative for the CIA.  The play between Redford and Pitt is as classic and fitting as that between any two actors in an adult and complex situation as anyone could ask.  I will not under any circumstance divulge the ending because it is secret and I'd have to kill you if I told you. Go see the movie for yourself and find out how the players end it all. "},{"Title":"It's hard to get out of the CIA","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's been just over 1/4 of a century since Robert Redford played a CIA agent in THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR (cut down from the James Grady novel, SIX DAYS OF THE CONDOR). And just as some have noted similarities between Gene Hackman's Harry Caul in 1974's THE CONVERSATION and his Edward Lyle in ENEMY OF THE STATE (the last film Tony Scott directed before SPY GAME) I think that Redford's Joe Turner, a literature researcher for the CIA in THREE DAYS OF THE CONDOR, after surviving all the trials and tribulations there, could easily have transmogrified into Nathan Muir of SPY GAMES - why not? Where else would a new identity be easier to create?;)Here's a quote from Redford's Joe Turner in the '74 film You know, you guys are amazing. You think not getting caught in a lie is the same thing as telling the truth!I didn't have a micro-cassette going to record at last night's sneak preview, so I don't have any compare/contrast quotes, (Although Muir does say to one of his colleagues something to the effect Do you remember when we could tell who the bad guys were?) but I think the character of Redford's 2 CIA agents are not dissimilar.The story is staged within a 24 hour period of time, which keeps the tension up. The story begins in the present and keeps flashing back to the past & then to the present again in cycles not unlike that in Orson Welle's CITIZEN KANE - but in SPY GAME you get an onscreen clock and a location on the screen so you don't get too disoriented.I don't want to get into a plot analysis (I'm sure you can find that elsewhere); I just have a few comments to make, some of which could be construed to be mild spoilers, so read on at your own risk.There are a number of times Nathan Muir gives advice to his protege, Tom Bishop and by the end of the film he has violated every single one of his espoused principles. This *is* a little humorous (kind of black, but still funny) but it also tends to telegraph later actions. There was also a scene in the trailer (seemingly spliced out of the print that we had) which has Muir saying something about if you mix business with pleasure, make sure the business comes first. That time clock popping up on the screen was handy, but it wasn't always there. In at least one point, assuming an evenness of time flow, it seemed highly unlikely that a copy of a fax Muir sent (I believe internationally) somehow appears wrinkled/crumpled in a CIA briefing room with Muir et al moments later. Perhaps I missed something somewhere - quite likely. Hey - it's a spy film. Extraordinary things can happen. But they should happen within a believable framework. Maybe it's like people pointing out continuity errors in HARRY POTTER - hey - that film's ABOUT magic - who's to say the characters didn't do the errors? (What fools these muggles be!) But I digress;)It was a fun film - no CITIZEN KANE but then few films are. I thought Redford and Pitt worked well together (I believe Redford cast Pitt for A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT (1992) and the chemistry was there at that time also). This screening was shown under the auspices of the Film Society at Case Western Reserve University in Strosacker Auditorium - all 500+ seats were filled and a number of people had to be turned away. The audience seemed well-engaged and there was a fair amount of applause at the end. You might want to go to a matinee or wait for a second-run theatre but this film won't be the same on video or dvd - see it on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Robert Redford takes on 'Courage Under Fire'","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  That was mean...   Courage Under Fire sucked so much that I shouldn't compare it to this decency.  Brad Pitt tried to play a perfect Tom Cruise character in this film, while Robert Redford was obviously a replacement for Gene Hackman.  Other than that, and the horribly boring flashbacks of Pitt, it was worth my $7.50.  Redford did a nice job of being the lovable law-breaking type of good guy, while Pitt was the disobedient romantic good guy.  All the bad guys were following their orders and trying to improve the USA.  This movie is just a representation of rebellion to me, but it was very entertaining. "}{"Title":"Welcome to the wonderful world of dirty dealing and disinformation.","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spies have played an integral role in world affairs since the dawn of military strategy their inception - Sun Tzu extolled their virtues and necessity in his epic tome over 2400 years ago.   Their numbers increased rapidly during the Cold War, and unlike superspy James Bond, they were not suave and debonair ladies men.  They did what they felt had to be done, whether it meant starting proxy wars, assassinating leaders  brokering weapons deals or acting as middlemen for drug smugglers - their only concern was what they deemed to be the right outcome.  In this shadowy netherworld ethics and morals were not a requirement, indeed they could prove to be more of a hindrance.Nathan Muir is a company man.  A normally admirable quality, it takes on a dark tinge when you do intelligence work for the CIA, and it is your job to ensure that the bad guys (whoever they happen to be this week), don't win.  When his former protégé - Tom Bishop, a Boy Scout trained marksman - is arrested on a mission, Nathan has 24 hours to stop his execution.  Complicating the situation is the Agency's desire to distance themselves from the whole situation and for the first time in his career, Nathan's any-ends-justifies-the-means creed is put to the test.This is the first teaming of Robert Redford and Brad Pitt since A River Runs Through It although this time they are working side by side as actors, rather than director and actor.  Both men equally capable of carrying a film on their own, and thankfully neither overwhelms the other.  Given his past performance as a good guy it is a pleasure to watch Redford as the pragmatist in a dirty business who is at best riding the fence between good and evil.  Pitt's early moments on film are just as strong, however as the film commences, he's not given the leeway to flesh out his character, eventually becoming the naive idealist.  The supporting cast, with the exception of Nathan's slithery chief foil (whose name unfortunately escapes me) is competent yet generally unremarkable.  The same cannot be said of the filming.There is some noteworthy cinematography, notably the slow motion sequence of a building being blown up, the war correspondent style coverage of the guerilla gunfights and the searing sepia tinted sequences in Vietnam.  These highlights are submerged amongst choppy gimmicky stylistic shots, the most egregious being the stop motion 360-degree pan introduced in The Matrix (I stopped counting after the ninth one).  I also found it difficult to believe that Redford or Pitt could easily blend in with any group they happened to be among - they just look a little too good.As spy films go, Spy Game may not be the best, but it is intriguing , watchable and  has enough clever little twists to keep your attention.    "},{"Title":"Typically-great T-Scott thriller.","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one great ride.  Tony Scott delivers as always with this stylish CIA thriller.  A fantastic script combined with two great performances from Pitt and Redford make for great tension and constant watchability.  Scott delivers his usual craftsmanship, combining excellent cinematography with dazzling visual flare.  Great editing and a really good score as well by Harry Gregson-Williams.  I'm a huge T-Scott fan and this is another fine addition to his collection.  I'm just waiting for the day when he makes his masterpiece (or his second masterpiece...CRIMSON TIDE being the first of course).  I recommend this film to anyone who loves a really good time at an action movie without having to leave your brain at the door.  My rating- 93. "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie!!!!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Luckily I saw the sneak preview of 'Spy Game' yesterday. I went in with good intentions, as I saw the trailer and I think Brad Pitt and Robert Redford make an awesome duo on screen. And man, they sure did one heck of a movie.For all the people who will get a chance to see this amazing movie in 2 days time, you wont regret it. The begining sequence is just totally what you would expect from a Tony Scott film. Brad Pitt's character delivers the support that is needed, but the credit of the film HAS to be given to none other than Robert hijmself. He just outdid himself this time, especially towards the end.Anyone who likes Brad Pitt, Robert Redford, or an action story line with an amazing plot, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Sigh Game","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It seems nowadays that for a movie to be successful it has to have a complicated plot, be over-directed and be completely brainless. Well, Spy Game has two out of three.   The movie isn't totally brainless, but if you think to much about it you'll realize the plot had more holes than a swiss cheese factory. Some interesting action sequences and a gripping storyline made the film watchable and fairly entertaining.  But the direction was a subtle as a punch in the face. I think this is one of those films that needs to be de-hollywoodized, if you know what I mean. "},{"Title":"Not as smart as it wants to be","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game is almost a good movie. Unfortunately, it fails to pay off on any of its worthwhile ambitions.At first, it seems like some sort of inside look at the 'spy game.' Brad Pitt's character is going to learn something about life and morality, as in a LeCarre thriller. Pitt does eventually make a big realization, but it's abrupt, with very little psychological lead-up. And the subsequent evolution of the story is barely sketched in. Early on, Pitt looks like one type of character. Later, we're told he's another type. The only thing missing is the good stuff in between.Meanwhile, as we see what Redford's character is up to, we're tempted to think this may be some sort of cat-and-mouse intellectual exercise, reminiscent of the brilliant Hopscotch. But Redford's 'cleverness' just isn't all that clever, or even interesting. He reads the back of a memo. He uses the phone in a neighbouring office. He steals a key card. Big deal. Not only are they banal, most of these events (such as his final exit from the film) are completely implausible. Unless you put your brain on 'Park,' you're constantly asking yourself But wouldn't they see that? Couldn't the world's biggest spy organization just send some people to stop him? Aren't there procedures that anticipate this sort of simple trick?And again, as with Pitt, we are left totally in the dark as far as Redford's ultimate change of character. Why does he act against all the weighty advice he gives Pitt early on in his training? We see that he's undergone some sort of transformation, but never given any insight into it. One minute, Redford is an unchanging brick of a character, a bastion of the amoral CIA philosophy. The next, he's a malicious prankster with an over-riding personal morality. This key transformation happens off-screen (like Pitt's), with no explanation. That's not clever, it's just annoying. If I wanted to write my own movie, I wouldn't be watching this one.Along the way, there are endless plot holes. The biggest of all being the basic framework of the story. Why is a committee of CIA top brass sitting around for two days, listening to Redford's reminiscences? Someone says it's to 'get something' on Pitt's character. That's not remotely plausible. We actually see a manufactured press item on the news, at one point, showing how easily the whole problem can be addressed, without listening to hours of Redford's banter, and without giving Redford hours to take action, as he's left to wander unsupervised through CIA headquarters.Spy Game isn't unpleasant to watch. It's nicely produced, with some genuinely interesting episodes. Unfortunately, those episodes fail to connect into a coherent whole. The Redford and Pitt characters are intriguing, but we never learn what makes them tick. They're ciphers at the end just as they were at the beginning.Watching Spy Game is like reading the outline of a movie. A good movie, to be sure. Maybe someone will make it someday. "},{"Title":"An Adrenaline shock to the senses","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the best political thriller movies i have ever watched in my entire lifetime with Robert Redford and Brad Pitt giving knockout performances throughout the entire film. Director Tony Scott really knew what he was doing behind the camera while making this excellent film turn out into being a box office success.Both Redford and Pitt give one of the best performances in both of their entire careers as actors.The movie itself will keep you on the edge of your seat you wouldn't be able to pause the movie if you watch it either on DVD or on TV if you never ever seen this epic thriller before in your entire life. However this picture is on my list for the best movies of 2001. "},{"Title":"All the President's Men","Date":"3 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Well, this is clever, but not so much in the conventional way. It's a spy film and - just forget Bond ever was - a spy film in good hand is one of the best forms of cinematic meditation we have. The main exercise, expounded in the film as well, is that you will have to train yourself to absorb everything while being invisible in plain sight, to touch every corner of every room but leave everything where you found it. See but have no thought what it's about, trusting the thing to reveal itself.So, from your end you will have to spy reflections of a game between storytellers.The premise is that CIA ops get together in a room in Langley to decide what kind of story to circulate about one of their men being held prisoner by the Chinese. Standard covert ops rules apply, so 24hrs before he gives up the game. Press and congressional hearings have to be kept out of the way. Our guy has a hunch that something is not quite right, and sure enough, lucrative business deals are on the table, the national image, a presidential visit scheduled for next week. He's asked background of the guy that years ago he ran as his agent. Hidden cameras are filming our film about the story being put together, by now this is so typical it has no spark. No, introspective spying is required behind the camera here. You will have to see past the story he tells, in conventional terms it's an exciting story, exciting in that episodic ordinary way, so Danang in '75, the training phase, running agents to and from the Berlin Wall, a mole in the Embassy, war-torn Beirut in the 80's. The listeners invest, thinking it's going to reveal something. But from your end, you will know the story is the agent, so assess and discard superfluous detail while keeping an eye on movements in the room.Now I like to think that the only bit of the story that is credible is Vietnam, which is the point where the other execs interrupt with the convenient conclusion that the guy was an assassin, hence a liability. An assassin in war, of all things.It turns out that the whole purpose of the meeting is the gathering of material for a cover-up story, and he's being run as an agent to that effect. Testimony by so and so.His own story that he tinkers and tailors is the decoy that buys time to counter-plot a rescue mission.On the level of the film, it's all a decoy to keep us from really paying attention to how ridiculous is putting the mission into effect. It's pure Hollywood fiction disguised as procedural disguised by more Hollywood fiction disguised as history. It's all tailored on this end to be a project that Robert Redford says yes to, so it has the noble struggle, the tacky lessons.Inside the fiction, it's all about love and commitment that Tony Scott dedicates as a story to his recently departed mother. This is the one noble thing to me. Last caring glimpses on separate planes up in the air. "},{"Title":"Mostly interesting and entertaining","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A fast paced thriller like this with lots of background needs some careful setting up and there wasn't much sophistication in the way it was done, but it worked surprisingly well considering.As others have pointed out, there were some pedestrian errors in the props and sets not to mention Tom Bishop's (Brad Pitt) apparently ageless body. Not the director's fault, though he should have spotted at least some of these. Timelines were skewed and there were some glaring historical errors.The ambitious Charles Harker (Stephen Dillane) drove the plot forward with force so we could compare that with Muir's (Redford) delicate, more productive touch. Muir and Harker had some interesting interplay which was cleverly written, well acted and nicely presented with great camera work, kudos to Tony Scott. Elizabeth Hadley (Cat McCormack) was an effective spanner in the works as the ambiguous go-between though I feel that Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) took a big risk to get her back when, in a few months she could be back in Beirut. Bishop's difficulty with the harsh realities of his work were a bit thin he must have known the risks he was taking not just for himself but for others in any way connected with him. Muir's rooftop warning seemed a little late, Muir had more faith in his protégé than he possibly deserved perhaps, but it was well phrased, well delivered and the filming of it worked exceptionally well for its novelty. (According to the DVD extras, Tony Scott stumped up $50k of his own money to pay for the helicopter to film that scene when the backers refused). Robert Redford consistently performs well. Whilst I don't feel he has much range (he's pretty much always Redford in any role) he makes up for it with intelligent shading of nuance. Brad Pitt gets by in a wooden way (nothing normally against him; in Interview With The Vampire, he and Cruise were outstanding) but this role called for nothing more than his usual bag of tricks.An entertaining film with a nice balance of pacey action and thoughtful dialogue. "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"11 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I LOVE a good spy movie; however, this was NOT a good spy movie! It appears to have been a novel that the Director tried to transfer to the big screen. Less like LeCarre' and more like Seuss. For starters, it was boring. I kept waiting for some action. The only action was the 2.7 seconds of shots...and how annoying was that? Robert Redford and Brad Pitt both looked very weathered...two handsome men wasted. The only exciting part of the movie was the beating of Pitt by the Chinese...and that was fractured (pun intended). There could have been more romance to develop Pitt's love interest. The two helicopter's next to each other was SO corny. Certain things were missing good direction, good script and good movie. "},{"Title":"It is an excellent example of narrative sequence by Tony Scott.","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" this film is the story of the beginning of a CIA agent, when left to their fate by the agency and his teacher's struggle to prevent that from happening. The film presents the proceedings of the CIA in the Middle East and Asia, as used by embassies and presents intelligence operations centre and supports pro-US military factions on the wings of combat international terrorism.This film reminds us of intrigue and espionage theme of the CIA in other films such as Clear and Present Danger (1994), Enemy of the State (1998), The Sum of All Fears (2002), The Recruit (2003) and Body of Lies (2008) among others.The film presents two generations of actors in relief of Robert Redford established in the whole film as an actor (The Sting 1973) and director (Ordinary People 1980), with over fifty years of experience and Brad Pitt nominated twice for an Oscar for Twelve Monkeys (1995) and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008).Spy Game has an excellent narrative sequence, changing scenes and place without losing the logical order of history, going back and forth from China to Vietnam and the Middle East. The film had a budget of $ 90 million and generated ticket sales by the amount of $ 143 million, also received three nominations for various awards at film festivals.The film features the hectic pace and assembly of Tony Scott, very successful, with an exciting story for lovers of the underworld of international politics, with a gallery of children that are great with some tremendous discussions and especially with the formidable performance Robert Redford, which is his last great work so far overboard in a paper showing that the experience is a plus, both to be an actor to be an excellent spy. "}{"Title":"Sharp, sizzling, pastiche of an action film...never flags!","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game (2001)Two generations of handsome (handsome!) men in a fast (very fast) game of espionage from the inside. It'll keep you up, sometimes at the edge of your seat, and sweeping along in an international free-for-all that manages to go from Vietnam to Beirut to Langley (of course) to China (in a nod to the new world order). If it's not brilliant, and feels at times forced, and if you sometimes think, okay, here's another well-used twist, you still will be impressed by all the great scenes and all the high energy explosions and most of all by the high stakes subterfuge.And in good John Le Carre fashion (if you don't know who he is, get out one of his better books and find great spy storytelling with heart), the main characters matter to each other for personal reasons. As much as this is about a rampage through some hot spots in CIA history, plain and simple, it's about honor, professional respect, admiration for extraordinary abilities, and friendship. It's also about the loner bucking the system for the good of love, and for a somewhat clear conscience. That's as appealing (and American?) as it gets, and it is partly why I gave it a little extra attention. Brad Pitt and Robert Redford (the two handsome dudes mentioned) are different kinds of consummate pros, and they need each other in different ways that makes for a distant, sporadic, but believable partnership. This is told with a multi pronged series of flashbacks that is both fabulous in its visual and kinetic intensity and unwieldy in its construction. First they show Redford at a fancy strategy room table with other men, then he starts to explain something in the past, and then it flashes back. Over and over. Not the smoothest approach, but functional.Ignore that, and ignore the fact that you don't ever quite get emotionally into their current crisis because it is so fractured and indistinct (we don't quite know who to root for or why), and you have a dynamic, sizzling bit of action thriller movie. It's a man's club, this CIA thing, in the eyes of this very male director Tony Scott, who rarely gives women much to do in his movies, from Top Gun to the Taking of Pelham 1 2 3, but this is one of Scott's best. "},{"Title":"The life and teachings of a great spy....","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Robert Redford plays a spy who on his last day at work finds out that his old student, Brad Pitt has been captured and now he must put together a plan to save him while dealing with his superiors....The film reveals flashbacks showing how Redford met Pitt and how they became estranged through one woman; the film is a thriller and keeps the audience on the edge of their seats while the camera work is brilliant, Redford easily carries off a cool and ice like stature as the elder secret agent and Pitt gives one of his best performances to date.The film shows the hard decisions that spies must make in order to get there jobs done and the life they really lead...which when looking at Redford office....makes you feel sad; overall this is a brilliant film and captures everything needed to make a great spy thriller. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enough, this is very good","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This one was a big surprise for me. I'm usually not a fan of espionage films, nor am I usually a fan of Brad Pitt. This movie was a pleasant surprise on both counts, and I really enjoyed it. The plot is very good for a big-budget Hollywood movie, I was interested from beginning to end. All the performances are great, and every character is unique. You almost feel sorry for some characters, while others are there simply for comic relief. No matter which they may be, everyone involved succeeds at their purpose. I really like Redford's character...it wasn't really anything new for him, but he was still funny and just plain cool. The director handled the plot very well; it's not very hard to figure out, but he still finds ways to keep you interested and wondering if your assumptions are correct. I definitely recommend this one.8/10 "},{"Title":"The film shows that solidarity between men keeps them alive","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Robert Redbord and Brad Pitt at their best It is a wonderful film on friendship and the price that has to be paid to stick to it e.g. by going with all available means against persons in an organization that only worry about their careers and would sell not only their colleagues but even their mothers for it. Friendship keeps people alive, literally and metaphorically speaking. Friendship in the first place between Muir (Redford) and Pitt (Bishop), but also between Pitt and his girlfriend in the prison and between Muir and his secretary and other persons that help him in rescuing Bishop from the prison in China. At the beginning of the film one would think Muir is like James Bond but Muir becomes more of a character. It turns out that he is not only a professional in intelligence work and in educating new agents but what is nicest Muir has a heart of gold.He helps Bishop even though their relationship deteriorated due to the problems with Bishop's girlfriend. "},{"Title":"what a great of movie","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" i just saw this movie and i really flew out of my seat i didn't know that Brad Pitt could act, and not just show his face on the screen and save the box office.I really like Bob Redford here too he is really good as an old time working CIA man.The directions of T.Scott was OK and the story that takes us through the Vietnam var too the end of the Cold war was belivible. I like the whole production of the movie and give if two thumbs up and my small toeJoakim Helm "},{"Title":"The CIA and the Chinese meet","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The movie Spy Game makes the CIA look good. To paraphrase President Kennedy the successes of the CIA are not told their failures are known. Both Robert Redford and Brad Pitt are exceptional actors. It is a real treat to see them in a movie together. Redford plays a high ranking CIA officer named Nathan Muir who flashes back to working with Pitts character Tom Bishop. Garrick Hagon plays CIA director Cy Wilson with style. Will Muir be able to get Wilson to free Bishop from China? Watch this cliffhanger film and find out. Operation Dinner Out is silly name for an op. Something like Operation Twin Galaxies sounds more grandiose. My stepmother is Chinese and I have come to appreciate subtle Chinese humor. If an Alien Species ever demanded humans to fight then America and China could fight a war on terrorism helping each other. In a letter to the Chinese Leadership first President Bush spoke of the close ties America has with China going back to President Nixon, Secretary of State Kissinger and Triangular Diplomacy. The great military Stategist Sun Tzu once said Feign confusion and destroy the enemy. It may look like there are too many American Intelligence Agencies but there is really only the American Secret Service. I think that there is something special about each American President and a sequel to Spygame should have someone playing the American President. "},{"Title":"Wrong tight.","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Great story, but unlikely the given timeframe.Sometimes one just have to wonder why filmmakers are trying to make a script tighter? I mean, they ought to do it, in more movies - by all means, but that doesn't mean that they should screw up the time-frame of which the movie and the plot spans.To be tighter in this film only made it poorer. Even with no breaks for rest or eat &#150; the time frame of spy game is far fetched.It simply is impossible to reach over all the events that are suggested, in such short time span as we are tried to be made believe by the storytellers. "},{"Title":"Not for people who love James Bond movies.","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Sometimes you get the feeling, just by watching the cover of the DVD that the movie isn't going to be any good. That's exactly what happened here. I never felt like buying or even renting it, because it looked like a typical brainless James Bond movie with a lot of explosions and stupid gadgets (sorry for the people who love James Bond movies, it's just not my style). But I have to admit that this time my feeling was completely wrong.It was shown on television on a Saturday night. I didn't think I would like it but I taped it anyway, because the reviews in the magazines were quite good. Today I didn't have much better to do so I watched it and I was pleasantly surprised by it. The story isn't unique. A CIA agent, one day away from his retirement, tries to save a young colleague out of the hands of the Chinese. He was captured when trying to liberate the woman he loves from a military prison. He's being tortured by the Chinese and he'll be executed the next 24 hours. Nothing new I hear you say, a typical Hollywood script you think. True, but Robert Redfort and Brad Pitt really acted very well and the director, Tony Scott, did an excellent job by using flash backs all the time. At first these flash backs made the movie a bit confusing, but as the story progresses it really gives you a better idea on who these people are, what they have in common, why they are in that particular situation ...All in all this is an intelligent spy movie, who will not be liked by everyone (especially not by people who want to see plenty of action shots with a lot of guns and explosions), but which certainly appealed to me. I give it a 7.5/10.  "},{"Title":"A thinking persons movie","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie in awhile but i decided to complement on it. Robert Redford and Brad Pitt star in this movie about a now retiring CIA agent trying to get his student Brad Pitt out of a Chinese jail. In the meantime the movie goes in to flash backs of Brad and him during different missions in different countries. This movie had a slow pace. But it had good acting and good direction. My personal favorite scene was the bombing in Beirut. This movie makes you think. So don't see with the notion of everyone just killing others and explosions. Figure it out you will be entertained. I was never to fond of Robert Redford but in this movie he changes my mind about him.  "},{"Title":"Redford, in a great performance, makes this movie what it is..","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game is an interesting movie. The first half of the movie is incredible. This is for two reasons the main one being Robert Redford, in a performance that garners 10 out of 10, he is just incredible in this role and almost singlehandedly makes this movie better then average.The second reason is the electric soundtrack heard constantly that is quite apropriate for this movie and never fails to keep the movie tense, exciting and involving. The problems start, however in the second half of the film.There, the music is noticeably less, the explosions grow quite frequent and a minor love story is thrown into the equation. Things also start to get confusing. This is a very tough movie to follow, many times I had no idea what the heck was going on(and still don't.) In spite of those flaws, however, there is something (strangely) likable and compelling about spy game, the electric atmosphere and Redford's intensity make you want to see it through and know what happens next.Pitt's good here, though better in other roles quite honestly, Redford clealy steals the show here.This is a movie that, as mentioned by many, could have been done a lot better. I'd still call it a good movie though, in spite of it's flaws. It grips you from the start and is pretty well paced even though the first half is clearly better then the second.If nothing else, see it for Redford's incredible performance, he's as good here as anything I've ever seen him in and his character will suck you in from the beginning.When I think a movie's really good I give it an 8 or above-when I think it's alright but not great it gets a 7. Spy game is not an 8 but somehow is above a 7 as well. I guess I'd rate this around a 7.7 or so. If you can get through the feeling of what's going on? that comes up quite frequently, you can become really involved in the atmosphere and action packed story line. "}{"Title":"Close...","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think this film is about the closest a feature film has come to accurately portraying intelligence work.  Yes, the military side of thing was handled unrealistically, but it showed what being a CIA agent is about developing assets, working them for information, and then leaving them out to dry. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just plain awesome. It has a great premise too it and the flashback scenes are awesome. I loved how they show how a CIA agent gets trained and how you use people to get what you want. The cast is top notched and very believable in their roles. I however thought the whole flashback scenes with wht was going did not make much sense to me and spent way to long on it when they were discussing what to do about Brad Pitt. Overall good action "},{"Title":"on my top ten list","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i have to admit that brad pitt is one of my favorite actors. i don't know if its the acting specifically, but he is been in so many movies that i like. Seven, Fight Club, Ocean's eleven, and this has to be his best movie yet. this movie is very suspenseful. i am not an expert on the CIA and how realistic this movie is but, i have to say that it was gripping after the first scene, and full of tension the rest of the movie. robert redford is also amazing in this movie. for an old guy he comes off as very cool. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Despite pairing together two Hollywood heavyweights in Robert Redford and Brad Pitt, Spy Game never manages to escape from mediocrity.Redford and Pitt play CIA agents with Redford the experienced professional and Pitt his young understudy recruited during the Vietnam War. The duo fall out and separate during one of their assignments, until Pitt many years later blows one of his missions and ends up being thrown into a Chinese prison. With Pitt set to be executed for espionage in 24 hours, it's up to Redford on hs last day before retirement (how many times hasn't that been used before???? ie Lethal Weapon 3) to save his former companion from the Chinese and the rest of the CIA who don't want to get involved.It's fascinating to see the long winded plan Redford concocts from his office to save Pitt without his overzealous superiors finding out. Without a doubt, the unfolding of this plot is the highlight of Spy Game. Unfortunately, in order to make this work, much time is needed to be spent on flashbacks showing the forging of Pitt and Redford's relationships, and their relationship with a mysterious woman (Catherine McCormack) who comes between them. After a while, this becomes downright tedious and is drawn out much longer than necessary.Also a little difficult to ascertain is the motives of Robert Redford's character. At one point he shows little remorse in accidentally killing 70 civilians in order to complete a mission, but then gives up his entire retirement savings and risks possible litigation to save one person. Redford is nevertheless not too bad, and neither is Pitt despite little screen time, but a bit tighter scripting may have helped both of them elevate this film.As a side note, although Spy Game is advertised as an action movie, there is precious little action to be seen. Director Tony Scott seems to be trying more to make a thinking man's flick, which is probably not his forte and doesn't particularly suit his stylised direction with fast forward sequences and drained out colours (very similar to the way his brother Ridley shot Black hawk Down). Overall, don't expect to see anything overly remarkable with Spy Game. It's good enough to pass the time as a Saturday afternoon rental, but it certainly won't be a film you'll be discussing for days afterward.6/10 "},{"Title":"See, think and enjoy it!","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A very smart film containing profundity, intrigue, great characters and top actors,a real friendship- and love story, CIA in detail and a fantastic screen shot that could initiate a new style of camera work. At filming pace Tony Scott achieves a wonderful contrast among the beginning scene including the many over-fast reflections and the perfect melodramatic and chess game(at CIA) scenes.Each one give the film an outstanding atmosphere - authentic, tragic and mystifying. The discussion between Redford and Pitt on the roof is one of the greatest scenes in film history, so the film it is - one of the best I have seen a long time ago. "},{"Title":"The actors are better than the movie, which is okay.","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A neat little plotRedford (Brad's old colleague, who he fell out with) is grilled about Brad's past - cue flashbacks - in attempt to disgrace and discredit him, so the Chinese can execute him on spying charges.  Redford uses rest breaks and guile to find out what's happened, and arrange a rescue..It's a solid film, mostly in flashback, about Brad's recruitment and their subsequent spying exploits in the Cold War and Beirut.  If I had to criticise (and I do), it would be that Brad Pitt was supposedly recruited as a sniper in the Vietnam War!  He's 38 years old, looks nearer 30 even in real life, and we're expected to believe he's a minimum of 55 years old.  I may have some dates wrong (I was only half-watching the film), but that killed the drama stone dead for me.I would also say that although I enjoyed Redford's race-against-time, the 'memories' - which make up about 2/3 of the film, left me curiously bored.  They're well shot and everything; no faulting the visuals; but I was bored (and I'll sit through almost anything).  Catherine McCormack did an adequate job in a token role.With Redford & Pitt in the same movie, it just should have been better.  "},{"Title":"let's stop seeing english actors trying to sound american!","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Overall a pretty good flick, but this movie just makes me want to scream when I see Redford's boss in the movie trying to sound American and not quite making it...why do English directors insist on casting English actors into American roles?  not enough American actors?  I must admit I often find myself embarassed by American actors trying to fake English accents as well.  we all know that the actors want to try this out but why do directors let them?  especially since the directors often don't know any better and would not detect poor accents.  someone should sit these guys down and stop being yes men...stop the cross cultural madness! Black Hawk Down had the same kind of annoying situations, English actors as southern USA captains and sargents...aaaaarrrrggghhhhh!!!  lol! "},{"Title":"Entertaining but very simplistic.  THe scenario has big holes.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoy seeing this movie but I gave it only a five.  This movie is misleading the audience.  They were too lazy or things that the spectator is not clever enough to understand.First China is GMT-8 and Washington DC is GMT-5.  I'd like to know how you can explain the timing?Second, a rescue operation over China with nearly no preparation is something for Sylvester Stallone.Some make-up for the actors would not have been bad to hide the years.  It makes the movie looks likeI think I enjoy it because the meeting scenes at Langley are very good and that it shows the way the CIA deals with the world.To reply to some critics, the film would not have been less entertaining with more riguour in the scenario. "},{"Title":"7 on a scale of 10","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Now, first of all, I love Redford ... as an actor. Not otherwise, as I ain't no homo! But, I digress. I especially like him in his roles of intrigue and mystery or suspense. This movie seemed tailor-made for me. As a 7, I don't hate it, but there is always room for criticism on a 7 of 10.I basically enjoyed the 2 hours. I only criticized it in the first 20 minutes as a few ridiculous assumptions were made. And, they weren't even necessary. Also, the other major criticism was the editing. Horrible! Obviously, this movie was much longer late in the process and someone went at it with a meat cleaver at the last minute.Lastly, I just didn't think it had the suspense I expected it would have. Although the idea of a spy game within the inner sanctum of the CIA was unique and intriguing, I just thought it fell flat compared to spy games in the field. And, Redford was too subdued in the role.But, I sat through it and I gave it a 7. However, if it wasn't Redford and it wasn't a spy thriller - a genre I like a lot, I would be blasting this movie much worse. "},{"Title":"The best movie of its kind","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I wasn't expecting much of this movie. That much more I liked it in the end. This movie is one of the best in it's category. It goes on and has it's quality from start to finish. No silly or pathetic ending like similar movies tend to end. If you tired of all the movies with brainless shooting action and superman heroism, this movie will be surprising refreshment for you. I can't just say anything else, than recommend this movie. "}{"Title":"Just a few questions","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  ***SPOILERS***Was Brad Pitt playing a person 45+ years old in the Hong Kong prison? Or was he only 10 years old in the Viet Nam sequence?  Can a US military rescue mission be planned, organized and implemented in a matter of a couple hours?  All started by a simple forged order.Can power be interrupted at any time in Hong Kong just for asking and a few dollars payment?Will Redfords character's actions be discovered and he be sentenced to prison for life?  Or will it all be covered up.  "},{"Title":"A Different type of film","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I certainly haven't seen a film like this for a long time! It's aninteresting one. Redford is on top form but Brad Pitt was maybe alittle bit of the opposite. The directing is superb and so is thescript, they got it just right. The film unravels slowly, all most toslowly at times and then speeds up when you don't want it to. Thisis the only disappointing factors. You need to be very awake to thisfilm so I'd recommend it. "},{"Title":"Edgy, watchable thriller","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers This movie is not so much 'tense' as 'watchable'. Slick, cool cinematography (although looking a little passe these days) and utilitarian backdrops make for an attractive, if not warm, 2 hours.Many of the other reviewers have failed to pick up the humour in Spy Game. This is a funny, funny film - often very dry and witty - that takes a stab at the corrupt CIA legend. Scott delivers a bunch of twitchy morons and desk-jockeys who make Redford look super-cool. Pitt is only seen in flashbacks, but looks suitably era-specific.The only thing I would really criticize is the 3 or 4 times we see Pitt being tortured by the Chinese. This is the only time the film slips into cliche. How much more chilling would it have been if we'd had Pitt treated well, just hours before his execution?For a low-budget movie (shot largely in England) this is top-quality fare. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":" Redford was great in this film and carried it completely.","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   OK. Now you've seen the trailer for this film. Right? And you probably have seen the poster? Well so have I, and as usual whoever put these ads together did a horrible job. At first the only reason I wanted to see this movie was because of the pairing (pitt and redford), and with the hopes that Brad redeems himself for the last big duo pairing The Devils Own (which sucked). Well I'm glad I saw this film. I'm glad I ignored my disgust at those ads and took a chance to see it. I really liked it! The film begins with the capture of Tom Bishop (Pitt). He was on a mission, which remains unknown for the most part of the film, and is held in a chinese prison with 24 hours left he is executed. After those first 7 minutes i was sold on the rest of the film. I love spy films, although I have to admit I've never been a fan of the 007 films, but was always keen to the theme. What's cooler than being a spy? Batman?.. but thats a whole other story. So the opening sequence... it's quickly paced like most Tony Scott films, and is very slick. Even in the most dirty environments this film looks great. That's one thing that you just can't help in this film, there is plenty of style. Does it work? Sure. We then cut to an asleep Robert Redford. He is awakened by a call filling him in on Bishop's capture. Today is Nathan's (Redford) last day at the CIA, but this situation is going to stir things up. You see, Nathan Muir was the one that brought Tom Bishop into the CIA. He taught him everything he needed to know. We learn this through a series of flashbacks as Nathan is asked to discribe his relationship and events that took place while knowing Tom. There are some heavy political issues at hand here, and so the CIA is willing to have the Chinese do as they wish with Tom. Do we ever really get a feel of these politics? Not really. But it doesn't matter. What does matter is the realtionship between Tom and Nathan. What matters is that the clock is ticking and that throughout the film, you want to see what happens. Redford was great in this film and carried it completely. I've never been a big fan of his, but I loved his performance in this. His relationship and chemistry with Pitt was great and completely believable. It's a good thing too because otherwise the film just wouldn't have worked. The scenes are pretty tight and have a nice weight to them. The blend of past and present could not have worked better, although the characters just don't show the periods well as they never seem to age. But it's a minor detail. Now there are plot holes, but none that I ain't willing to forgive. Let me tell you, I loved the Mission Impossible movies. You just have to believe it to a certain extent to really enjoy it, and when performances are well executed thats exactly what they allow you to do. How can you refuse the serious look on Redford's face. I sometimes feel a story that is unbelievable looks more believable if it's told in a more realistic style. I'm sure I would have liked that more in this case, but I certainly didn't mind the style. I recommend the movie, but had the studio released better promotions I wouldn't have had to. Got it?  "},{"Title":"Solid Spy Movie","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A very solid spy flick that has its moments. The Redford/Pitt duo works very well, as the two sex symbols of the past/present come together to deliver solid performances. For anyone who has seen the trailer, the cool part where Pitt's character is describing the people on the street, well, that part is not in the movie (not in the version I saw anyway). Overall, good film that takes you on a rollercoaster ride into the depth of the bureaucracy and the reality of the spy universe. "},{"Title":"absolute hard-core suspense thriller","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film. It's so full of suspense, I was amazed to look at the time and see that it was only an hour in. The acting is superb and the chemistry between Brad Pitt and Robert Redford is very effective, at times they seem like father and son. The plot is very sophisticated and full of twists,  pretty much all of which work. If you liked films like Salvador, Heat, or Patriot Games, you will appreciate this masterful film. For what it attempted to do and what it has accomplished 10/10   "},{"Title":"Good mix of action and intellectual games","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had to overlook several plot elements that just seemed impossible, but that's what you have to do every now and then to allow yourself to enjoy what turned out to be a very entertaining movie.  Robert Redford's Nathan Muir was a good mix of understanding the complex game he played for life and also had enough humanity to not make him simply an evil spy.  Brad Pitt's Tom Bishop seemed a little idealistic to actually be a spy, but he played the role quite well.  Catherine McCormack's role was mostly limited, however she portrayed her slightly over-zealous character without being over-zealous with her acting.  Stephen Dilland as Harker was perfect at being able to keep a smarmy face on for just about the entire movie. Matthew Marsh played the sympathetic Dr. Byars with a respectful, understated quality.  Lots of good spy stuff going on and enough action to keep you busy.  7 of 10.  "},{"Title":"go Tony Scott!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Slick, witty, well edited movie. Great music! But what i really liked most was that it was directed by Tony Scott. I have to say this is the best movie he has been a part of since 'True Romance'. Tony Scott is a highly capable director, but he has picked some rather boneheaded scripts to direct (let's just blame Bruckheimer instead). Now i feel bad for cutting him down at my review for his brother's 'Black Hawk Down'. )Not for folks who need constant action and an easy to follow plot, this is more of a thinking person's movie. "},{"Title":"Proof that Hollywood can still make smart action pictures. 10/10","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is not your typical action picture.  First off, and most surprisingly, it's not filled with ridiculous amounts of action.  All the action in the film is called for due to the narrative, not the other way around.  In fact, most of the thrills and surprises come around a table, involving Redford and his manipulative C.I.A. colleagues.Tony Scott gives the film a very slick and stylized look, but again, nothing is over-done.  Redford gives one of his best performances in the film, and while Brad Pitt isn't exceptional, he is game.One of the big surprises of 2001. "},{"Title":"Slick Hollywood flick about CIA spy stuff","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game tells of a retiring CIA agent (Redford) at Langley who has 24 hours to try to save his novice (Pitt) from execution in a Chinese prison a half a world away. A fast moving drama which tells two parallel stories, the mentor/novice history (via flashback) and the present moment inside-the-agency chess match, Spy Game gives a smart but Hollywood version of CIA operations and intrigues both inside the agency and in the field. A well crafted, heavily edited, entertaining film which keeps you thinking and guessing while delivering more dialogue than action, romance, sex/nudity, etc. A must see for spy flick junkies and an okay watch for others. "}{"Title":"I LOOOOVE THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Forget about the fact that it's got Robert Redford (I love older men!;)or Brad Pitt (he's not too sore on the eyes either!), but this movie is awesome. My boyfriend and I rented it last night and he really didn't want to watch it cuz he thought I just wanted to look at the guys! He ended up liking it more than me! Robert Redford is just fantastic and the way the movie was shot and everything just really surprised us. I highly recommend it. 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Intelligent and highly entertaining spy thriller","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After Crimson Tide and Enemy of the state this one is another high quality thriller from director Tony Scott. Fast paced, witty, well written and very entertaining. Fine performances from Brad Pitt, Catherine McCormack, Stephen Dillane and especially Robert Redford make this film a real highlight. As always in a Tony (or Ridley) Scott film, other highlights include the inventive camerawork and editing and a fine score by Harry Gregson-Williams from the Zimmer-Factory.  The whole movie reminded me of Sydney Pollack/Robert Redford spy-against-his-will-movie Three days of the Condor. Although the situations in both movies are vastly different, the proceedings, the tactics and suspicions within the CIA are similar. And it's just great fun to see Redford outmaneuvering everyone else.  "},{"Title":"No sign of Hollywood here","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Thank god, finally a movie dealing with international terrorism and the CIA that doesnt reek Hollywood.  This is a first class film, with a very good plot, and good acting.  The film in a sense is almost a documentary, with many real clips about past events.  It adds just enough historical background for the audience to come to grips with the story.  It didnt go overboard with the history, though, which is a good thing.  There was a few, high-tech camera work seems, that made me feel like I was watching swordfish, but I didnt get worked up about it cause I new the story was going somewhere.  The Swordfish-like scenes were only a small part of the movie.          When I heard the names Redford and Pitt, I thought it was gonna be some corny blockbuster CIA movie where they get the terrorists back, but fortunately they leave that for Arnold.  This movie presents a real story about the situation. I gave it an 8/10  "},{"Title":"One small remark...","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, fine thriller, fine action-packed vehicle for the Ken doll Brad Pit (and a great Redford, boy I wish I look that good al 64).But, my main problem isn't the fantasy ending, nor the fact that the big boys at the CIA are not that dumb not stupid (otherwise they wouldn't be there). My problem is that the movie asks simpathy from the audience for the woman Hadley (Pitt's sex partner, not even lover), after it's revealed that not only she plays both parts against the middle, but that she is (ok, was) a TERRORIST who blew up a chinese embassy and killed several people, and for the sake of... are you ready...human rights!!! Ghess that makes it ok(her excuse I thought the place would be empty is insulting.Anyway, just a thought... "},{"Title":"A Thrill Ride...","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Thrilling from start to finish, even the non-action scenes had an edge to them.  Loved Scott's fast paced camera style and great use of locations. The sound track was amazing.  I was transported in an instant during the flashbacks, very well done!!  Redford's best role in a long time, he inhabited every scene effortlessly.  Pitt was wonderful, I just wanted more screen time with both of them.  Their chemistry sparked!  To me, this was ultimately about friendship and love and how each character's desperate actions were guided from their heart.  Maybe this is just a female take on an otherwise very male movie...but an excellent movie at that. "},{"Title":"Re GWW-1's comments (7th Dec) I was very disappointed!'","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Responding to what the user GWW-1 had said about ...at one point Redford's character says that he first met Pitt's character 25 years ago when they fought together in Viet Nam. 25 years ago, Brad Pitt was only 12 years old!... I'd like to note that the show was set in 1991, not 2001. Hence, they met approximately 16 years ago, and not 25 as the user had stated. But, I guess Brad Pitt's looks should be able to allow him to transform into a much younger Tom Bishop easily.  "},{"Title":"One Goof!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although the movie is great. and presents Beirut of the 80's in a very realistic style , there was a Goof!!When Redford, Pitt and Hadley were sitting in a local café, the song in the background didn't come from the era the movie is talking about.The movie shows Beirut in the early 80's; but Pascal Mash'alani, the woman singer, did not start singing till the later part of the 90's and the song, Noor Al Shams, is fairly recent, last three years!  "},{"Title":"Redford makes film watchable","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This tale has Robert Redford, as a soon to retire CIA agent who must defy his superiors and stage a darring rescue of his former protege (Brad Pitt, who spends most of the film getting tortured in his prison cell). Really this is Redford's show and he proves that he still has the charisma to carry a film on his aging shoulders. The storyline is somewhat predictible, but the ways that Redford outsmarts his CIA handlers is still entertaining. GRADE B "},{"Title":"Wow, cool movie, great acting, and SUPERB MUSIC!!","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Harry Gregson-Williams and Tony Scott did it again!! Wow, I was totally blow away with the music, it was a total amazing music arrangement!! Gotta love it! Brad Pitt and Rebert really did a great job together as a duo, the set was realistic and amazing, BUT, wait.. can you fly a UH-1 heli to SuZou, China?? Even from a air carrier, I don't think so.. there are some plots that are not that logical and so on, but then again, well, it's just a movie, and for a movie and for entertainment, cool!! This movie really really did a great job to put all the pieces together!! 9 out of 10.When you watch the movie, pay special attention to the music!! No wonder the Japanese game company (NAMCO) wanted Harry to do their heavy-weight game title Metal Gear Solid, Harry IS one of the best film composer in hollywood right now!! Great job Harry! "},{"Title":"How great is this movie?","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  We can play a game, the pro's and con's of this game.  Now, we have Robert Redford despite his age- and it shows in every close up- is still cool enough to have Brad Pitt as a follower. Then we come to Brad Pitt, Super Spy.  Doing unbelievable things for America,  it makes me wonder about what these people actually need to do everyday.  There is amazing shots and an entire scene on the roof of a building that seems so surreal it's cool.  Which is the fault of intense director Tony Scott.  We add a contagious soundtrack, ultra spy environments, events that would fit into history, and spies that have no respect for to humanity, we would have what seems to be a reality based movie.  Now the con's.  Okay this movie is predictable.  It's a spy movie.  I don't want an ending I know from the start, I want an ending that satisfied all the answers that were swimming in my head, yet somehow evaded explanation. This did not happen in this movie.  Everything was obvious,  although Redford's performance did fool many.  And my other problem, they  didn't use Brad Pitt enough.  He is immensely talented, and they used him to demonstrate how much pain one person can take for the right reasons.  The plot alone justifies that, Pitt was not allowed to demonstrate his character.  He can be so cool and so unbelievable in roles.  This didn't happen here.But all in all I gave it a 10- what is the point of something actually being truly perfect.  The film was great and very impressive and entertaining.  Great waste of time. "}{"Title":"Nothing great but it's atmosphere and characterizations are perfect","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tony Scott's latest suspense film is a on and off crackerjack suspense thriller with covert ops, down to the clock thrills and other good things.  Sometimes it's slow but it's never intolerable with Redford and Pitt delivering fine performances (I didn't know Redford could still act this good) as two spies, one retiring which is Redford, and the other (Pitt) is in a Chinese prison in detainment for espionage and while trying to save him in a 24 hour period Redford goes through their history together for a group of suspicious CIA types. Some fine and definitely appropriate cinematography by Daniel Mindel and a good all around feel (the atmosphere is perfect as I mentioned earlier, as that the film creates situations and scenes where your eyes don't want to wander the screen for a second in fear of missing something that could be important) delivered by Scott and company; not anything that will win awards, but it is worthwhile for adults and other mature folks who might actualy go against the tide of Harry Potter and see this while the kids see that.  B+ "},{"Title":"Interesting fantasty that a CIA agent might twist the Company to perform his own good deeds","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The killer spy with a heart of gold, Robert Redford, twists the CIA top brass into rescuing his boy scout buddy, Brad Pitt, from a Chinese prison. Pay attention, it's a complex plot, and demonstrates that your average citizen can subvert nefarious Big Brother with a bit of luck. Never a dull moment. "},{"Title":"Blonde on Blonde","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When a top-secret, unauthorized mission goes bad, CIA agent Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) is captured - and sentenced to die. With just 24 hours to get him out alive, Bishop's boss Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) must battle enemies abroad and the system inside the CIA to save his friend. Now, the clock is ticking and the race is on&#x85; as the deadliest game of all explodes into the spectacular, adrenaline-fueled&#x85; pulse-pounding action thrill ride, according to the film's official synopsis.Tony Scott's Spy Game is a good-looking , mostly enjoyable espionage thriller; but, it fails to take full advantage of the inspired casting of Mr. Redford with Mr. Pitt. The two men aren't given much to work with, but manage to convey a (presumably) father/son relationship. The best characterization comes from Redford's interaction with sturdy secretary Marianne Jean-Baptiste (as Gladys); she almost single-handedly gives Redford (and, by extension, Pitt) heart.The timeline and character ages do not seem credible; 1975, the most plausible year for Redford and Pitt to have met during the Vietnam War, is where the film begins, chronologically. But, Redford and Pitt haven't changed much, in appearance, in the present setting of 1991 - they both sport beautiful heads of Hollywood hair, though. Catherine McCormack, as Pitt's love interest, contributes to an unconvincing love story subplot. And, it's nice to see Larry Bryggman in feature film.***** Spy Game (11/19/01) Tony Scott ~ Robert Redford, Brad Pitt, Catherine McCormack, Marianne Jean-Baptiste "},{"Title":"Hell of an ad for the Boy Scouts.","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I must admit, Tony Scott is one of the greatest action directors the film world has to offer. He not only has the ability to push his actors, but also create these amazing visuals that transport us deep into the setting of the film. He has mastered the cinematography of nearly every picture he has done, giving us these beautiful shots of the world that we may never see in our lifetime. Several of his films enhance my DVD collection like Crimson Tide and True Romance, but sadly Spy Game will not. While Scott does wonders with the actors, scenes, and camera angles, it is the story that is ultimately flaws this film. The lack of coherence, consistency, and structure take this Tony Scott film and transform it into just your average Hollywood spy film. It had the potential to reach new levels, and there were several scenes that I loved, but I just couldn't believe the story. Let me explain.My biggest issue with this film was the lack of aging from our two main characters. This film spans a timeframe of about sixteen years, and throughout the course of that time neither Pitt nor Redford age. Director Scott chose not to use CGI or younger actors for the parts when they were in Vietnam, so as the time progressed in the film, our main actors did not. This was a huge hurdle to overcome since I wanted to enjoy this film. I did not see the mission where the discovered the fountain of youth, so I can only assume that this was some bad judgment on Scott's part. Redford and Pitt should have aged more than what they did in this film allowing us to see the emotion and sheer force behind their eyes.Outside of this point it was your average Hollywood action film. Large explosions and violence countered with a sneaky Sneakers-esque style subplot overshadowed the plot. Pitt was nothing more than the muscle of the operation, and Scott gave us nothing to build more upon his character. I fault the writer of this film. I believe that the homework was done correctly, just not structured correctly. Perhaps it was just me, but I had trouble following some of the missions. I realize they were necessary, and possibly not rocket science, but the scene with Charlotte Rampling made no sense. Maybe I missed a part that was crucial in some way, but overall it just seemed like there was more jumping and fighting than actual plot. I felt as if the love interest was randomly placed through the film. I realize that Pitt was not one to follow simple commands, but I felt early on in this film that he would have the ability to walk away from a woman if needed. Spy Game suddenly went from smart espionage film to 'master has to fix newbie's mistake'. This felt strange to me because throughout the film Redford continued to speak about having the upper hand, and not straying from the point. Yet, when Redford was faced to save his friend, he did just that. Was he learning from his pupil? If so, it was not very well spelled out and a very weak point.Outside of the story, director Tony Scott gives yet another beautiful film. The cinematography is outstanding. I loved the way that he kept us, the audience, in suspense as to what time it was and how much time they had to save Pitt's character. The black and white flashes followed by the time were inventive and it seemed to work. It kept me on the edge of my seat. Scott controlled this film and it was a pleasure to see that. There is no doubt in my mind that he is the master of the action genre and that more scripts should be coming his way. I hope they are more inventive than this outing and have at least a bit more meat on their bones. Overall, I thought this was an average film. I am disappointed because there are better than average films that Tony Scott has released, I am ashamed to ask why this film was not one of them. Pitt was solely used for the purpose of his strength (and to capture the attention of a younger female audience) while Redford was used mainly for his dashing good looks (and to capture the attention of the older female audience). Once you realize this point than this film will fall into place. I don't think it deserves more than one viewing, but the cinematography alone was powerful enough to watch once.Grade *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Great to see two incredible actors together","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Wow. This was an incredible movie! The acting was right on, the cinematography magnificent. I have recommended this film to everyone I know, and haven't received a bad response yet. I have always been huge fans of Redford and Pitt, they're acting abilities being top-notch. When i heard they were doing a movie together, i was so excited. The expertise of Redford's character(Nathan Muir) is really fun to watch. The deadpan deliveries by Redford are wonderful. Pitt has once again outdone himself to bring another great performance to this picture. Bottom line, great story, great action, great acting! "},{"Title":"Scott Shows Off & Falls Off","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Scott brothers amaze me. Visually, they have true talent. And they know it. They have even made good, well-rounded films. BUT, many of their films are also all flash, all gloss and no substance. I went into this film with high hopes, but I finally found the movie tedious. Redford gives another solid performance (and I have to comment on another post - someone gives Redford crap for looking old and weathered. HEY!!! He IS old and weathered. Give the guy a break. I give him credit for being secure enuff to say - hey, this is what I look like. God Bless him for not having the bad face work that every other star has. he looks like someone his age who has been in the sun, so what? Hats off to him and his real face)but once the film gets going, it's just Redford telling these flashbacks and they go on and on and(SPOILERS)************maybe this is WHAT people liked, but I didn't. In the long run, Pitt goes to all this for a GIRL??? So, you strip it all away and it's a love story. Ho hum. I just found it to be a mess where the twists and turns work out only because the movie allows them to work out. Everyone at the CIA is stupid and Redford is so smart. That beat is played over and over. And Scott LOVES to show off. Look at what I can do with a camera!!! Wheeeeeee! I can circle a building top REALLY fast and then look - I can slow it down. Now, I'm gonna swoop. That gets boring really fast. "},{"Title":"Deja Vu?","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Haven't we seen Redford in this sort of thing before? He was much better in Three Days of the Condor than here. It's hard to think that in the span of 24 hours Brad Pitt's fate will be resolved in a farfetched way, but given the fact that this CIA agent played by Redford can accomplish so much in a cinematic day, outsmarting the same organization and colleagues he used to work with, it's a wonder the Agency can survive at all . That there could be such dumb people employed by the government who will leave their badges and ID's laying around, could only happen in the minds of screenwriters Michael Frost Beckner and David Arata. What was the point of the Berlin rooftop scene, was Tony Scott trying his hand at a commercial for outdoor furniture? We only hope the character portrayed by Redford is living well as the security manager for a hotel in the Bahamas after his retirement and that Tom, the Brad Pitt character, is finally allowed to settle down in Sedona doing spiritual readings after all he goes through in this movie. Poor guy, he must have gotten paid not too many millions to appear in this film.  "},{"Title":"Some rules are meant to be broken.","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Intense and riveting story directed by Tony Scott. A CIA operative(Robert Redford)who's about to retire is forced into one more semi-covert mission...to rescue his protege (Brad Pitt)who has been captured and placed in a Chinese prison. He is to be executed as a spy within twenty four hours. Redford must work against the agency in order to free his tortured comrade caught in the game of spying. Redford and Pitt work solidly together and notable in support are Catherine McCormack and Marianne Jean-Baptiste. Not a whole lot of action, but enough mind bending drama to go around.  "},{"Title":"Uninvolving, immeasurably slow, predictable, & flawed","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" What is wrong with some of you people? Hollywood feeds you the same crap over and over and yet you gobble it up indiscriminately just the same.1. Robert Redford is friggin' 65 years of age for God Sakes. No amount of soft lighting is going to change that.2. Use some Goddamn makeup. If we are to believe that Brad Pitt's character was back in Nam, he shouldn't look EXACTLY the same many decades later.3. Just because Redford's character is old school shouldn't mean that all of his new school superiors should be posed as complete idiots.4. I neither give a damn about the cliche of Pitt's character risking it all for a woman.5. Nor do I give a damn about Redford's character coming to the realization that he's become emotionally hardened by the spy game and should make an attempt at redeeming himself.6. Flashbacks are rarely a convincing plot device. Hence, don't use them!7. This film creeps at a snail's pace.8. Mr. Scott, we already saw all of that amazing (but frenzied) aerial camera work in Enemy of the State (1998). There it was creative and useful. Here, in Spy Game, it's just silly and distracting.9. In all, I found Spy Game so totally uninvolving, I was ready to walk out the theatre after the first 20-minutes. Too bad I didn't.6/10  "},{"Title":"b. o. r. i. n. g.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was absolutely one of the longest, most boring movies I have ever seen. I like dramas, in fact I prefer them. Twelve Angry Men, for instance, is one of my all-time favorite movies. I think they were trying to do something similar here, with all the intrigue taking place between a bunch of men sitting at a table. But they failed. Miserably. There is no intrigue, the plot is hackneyed and trite, the acting is stifled (and that's giving Redford the benefit of the doubt), the suspense is missing entirely. If you've seen virtually any movie released in the last, say, fifty years, then nothing in this movie will be a surprise to you. It's all been done before, and much much better.Oh, and if you saw the trailer and thought this was an action movie, then you will REALLY be disappointed.No matter what you were expecting, I would say, you're likely to be disappointed with this movie. It's sixteen hours of my life that I know I'll never get back. I think that in honor of this movie I may do away with my long-standing policy of not walking out on movies. If I have to sit through another one like this, I won't make it. "}{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tomy Scott here making it clear once and for all that he can be equalled with his brother Ridley. The style of filmmaking, the use of music and the editing seems to me like very much alike. And that is not a bad thing at all.The film itsekf is very exciting, even while you know how it will end before you even begin to watch the movie, so to know the end end still make an exciting fil is quite a piece of art. Robert Redford seems to get beter and beter by the time he is getting older, and Brad Pitt is not so much in screen as you might expect. Another interesting actress was Catherine McCormac, who we know from Braceheart, although her appearance was not as beautifull I was still surprised.And then final a note for the amazing music, the soundtrack is one of the most beautifull I have ever heard. And when you put on the cd, the recording is another thing to rave about. This film surely is carried by the music. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if cliched","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Good and the not so good. The good first*Pitt and Redford, nothing special either one here, but solid and reliable. You don't go see them in spy flick expecting Oscar stuff, you expect to see alotta shooting, running and plotting. They are believable as much as is needed, works for me.  Yes Redford is kinda old and yes they didn't use enough aging makeup for the '75 Flashbacks. Big deal. They weren't Really in '75 filming Pitt and Redford in Da Nang either, guys.*Flashbacks-I thought they were nicely handled though it did get a little longish at times, especially the one in Beirut. This part of the film is considered the best, and yes, it is. You get to know the guys better here, as it slows down and lets you in for a while.  The whole subplot involving the doctor is well handled though I'm not so sure Pitt's 'rooftop racing' would go un noticed....*I liked the secretary and all of Redfords' wives. Good stuff there.Not so good*Plotting gets involved in Germany and towards the end some. Spy flix are like that. Follow da bouncing ball carefully.*Getting calls 'from home' at a CIA debriefing...uh, no. Un-monitered calls at that. That is stretching it a WAYS.*Redford does 'get away with it' some at the finish. Does make you wonder.*CIA guys are mostly shown as being about as bright as Hardee's managers. Ummmmmm, yeah.*The last mission into China is a real James Bond reach too.*Ease up on the flashy camera work some. Fujifilm rooftop was somewhat overdone.But overall, it's fun, well made, etc. I rec. it to any fan of either the stars or the genre.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"A Perfect Role for Redford","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Retiring CIA agent Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) recalls his training of Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) while working against agency politics to free him from his Chinese captors.This is the perfect role for Robert Redford. After Day of the Condor and before Captain America, this is a great early-2000s spy thriller and Redford has distinguished himself in those roles. This seems like it would pair well with Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. They are both spies looking back on their career trying to figure things out. Different, yet similar.Pitt is also a great choice because he is in many ways a younger Redford in his personality and presence. Will that continue as Pitt ages? Perhaps. If anything, he has become a bigger player than even Redford managed to be. "},{"Title":"Its Own Unique Espionage Thriller","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Rarely does a spy movie come out that offers both action thrills and substantive mind games. What makes this spy movie unique is its use of action as a backdrop to the real cerebral activities going on. This is a mental movie, like a mystery genre but the mystery isn't who done it, but how and if it will be done. The use of flashbacks are superlative in connecting the movie with concurrent past and present action going on. The audience is offered a brilliant sequence of simultaneous stories that interweave in profuse delight. The storyline is so straight forward that the narrative is allowed to become more qualitative than quantitative. The emotional tension begins at the very start of the movie and continues through out. The story depicts real espionage tactics, allows the audience to experience betrayal, loss, and human connections... This is a humanistic and penetrating look at espionage and its impact on people, not a superficial action thriller. "},{"Title":"All Game. All War.","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game (2001) Dir Tony Scott / Cast Robert Redford, Brad Pitt, Catherine McCormack, David Hemmings, Stephen Dillane Superb film about our attitude towards violence and danger. Shown mainly through flashbacks regarding the relationship between Robert Redford and Brad Pitt. When an operation goes wrong an agency wishes to give reason for the Chinese to execute Pitt whom is captured and tortured. Redford acts on behalf of Pitt and is questioned but underneath he is thinking beyond them. We learn that they met in Vietnam and were involved in many combat operations. Pitt became involved with a woman whom Redford viewed as bad news. While formula in structure the film is entertaining and directed with insight by Tony Scott who also made True Romance and The Hunger. Here he does a war film that is a far cry to that overrated farce he made called Top Gun. Redford is clever in his dealings around the corrupt officials who are applying pressure. Pitt is seen mainly through torture segments but flashbacks broaden his back story. Catherine McCormack plays the mysterious woman involved with Pitt whom Redford cannot quite trust. David Hemmings is a fine actor but wasted in a flat role. The film is well made visually but its message doesn't seem to be as played up as the action. The result is an insightful and entertaining film at best. Score 9 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Definitely an interesting look into a world of spies","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" About me I'm 44 old male, so I watched a lot of movies in my lifetime.Story-Line Upon learning that his former partner (Brad Pitt) has been caught by the Chinese, veteran CIA operative Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) does his best to help him.About the Movie In a few cases, all of the movie elements come together in perfect harmony. But in most cases, some of the parts outperform others, as it is with the Spy Game. But, don't get me wrong, it is not a bad movie, but also it is not that good, especially towards ending, making you to expect a big action scene, but there is no pay off. Never the less, film did entertained me. Also, Redford and Pitt worked well together and Redford embodies Muir with tremendous intelligence and the wits to react to nearly every situation. The final result is an above-average spy film that surpasses the limitations of its script.Verdict Spy Game is thriller for grown-ups about spies who manipulate their assets with brains, not explosives. Is flick good? I personally thought so. Do I think that it could have been improved with some some additional touches? Of course. But, in the end, I found myself satisfied. I understand that sometimes people simply want to be entertained, so for those into spy flicks or die-hard fans of the two leads, Spy Game is definitely recommended, for others, not so sure. Rating 8- (only 'cos I like Spy flicks)Favorite quote (Gladys Jennip) Feeling a little paranoid on our last day?(Nathan Muir) When did Noah build the ark Gladys? Before the rain. "},{"Title":"One of the most exhilarating spy movies in the recent years.","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is quite a movie, I'd say. A movie that yanks you in the depths of the very spy games and the insides of CIA. A movie that grips you and refuses to let you go until the final whistle. 126 minutes of pure exultation and suspense that holds you at the edge of your seat, mingled with top-notch screenplay from the director of Top Gun - Tony Scott.This is the story of a retiring CIA agent Nathan Muir (The marvelous Robert Redford), who's trying to free his old friend Tom Bishop (The flamboyant Brad Pitt) from a Chinese prison, which he trained to become an infallible spy. When Nathan finds out that Tom is captured and tortured in China for espionage, he tries to work ways out to get him out of there alive. That's where the spy game begins.The CIA is trying to hide from the world that they have a captured spy in Chinese territory and they put no efforts to get him back, but exactly the opposite, they want him killed. Nathan's cunning mind and the contacts that he's made throughout the years will eventually help him get closer to saving his friend.The movie is very well-paced, you're brain is forced to work all through the movie in order to realize what's really happening, because of the fast changing scenarios. It's a real well-made movie about one man standing up to his friend and his own morals against the system that crushes everyone in its path.This is a movie plentiful of ravishing A-one actors, unified with a rigorous script with all its amazing details. A spy movie that everyone should watch. "},{"Title":"Good Game","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" You want entertainment, well here it is. However, you have to follow the movie to get the full pay-offs and there are quite a few. The dialog especially. It will answer all your questions in the end if you can remember. I watched the movie twice a few months apart and it made lots of sense second time out. The main character shows us just what he did do at the CIA by using his powers to get a friend out of trouble at the same time trying to keep himself out of trouble too. Add to the fact it is his last day at work, so we have time pressures. Working smarter not harder produces tense, thriller action. The actors of course deliver the goods and the director had his heart in his work. Recommend sunflower seeds or popcorn so as not to bite nails during some parts. Tasty drink and no texting or cell phones. Let the movie have you and you wont be sorry for the two hours worth of watching. Must see twice for maximum marrow and I do recommend captions on too "},{"Title":"insensitive and uncaring","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I read the NY Times and Ebert reviews, back when both had a pulse. Both chide Scott and the characters in Spy Game with not caring or being insensitive. This they find incongruent with the movie. if they don't care why should we, Roger wrote. Pitt wrestles with caring throughout the movie however. The CIA suits, including Redford, certainly do not, but this is the kernel of the plot - Redford's path and Redford's choices. To me the unsympathetic visuals and pace are a perfect backdrop for the main character. In a dispassionate music video of solemn faces and flashy cuts, that seemingly ran before and after the arcs of these two agents, the machine does not change. It does not care. "},{"Title":"Tony Scott keeps trying to make an action movie out of this","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In 1991, CIA agent Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) is captured trying to help Elizabeth Hadley (Catherine McCormack) escape Chinese PLA Su Chou prison. Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) on his last day before retirement tries to navigate the politically sensitive situation. He recruited sniper Bishop back in '75 Vietnam for a mission.Director Tony Scott is making a slick espionage movie with two of the greatest stars in the universe. This should be better but it's only passable. Scott is pulling out all the editing tricks to artificially juice up the excitement. I'm not sure it fits the material but it's perfectly watchable. It wants to be an action movie when it's more of a tense chess game. "}{"Title":"Great acting, patchy story","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Part of the story is set in the present as senior CIA people respond to the capture and impending execution of an agent, Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt), who has been caught trying to rescue someone from a Chinese prison, but who, and why? They want to get the personal files of Bishop from Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) who has been Bishop's controller. There is a flashback as Muir tells of meeting Bishop in Vietnam, where Bishop is a sniper, and another when Bishop is recruited when in Berlin.We see the mentor/student relationship develop, we see aspects of both their personalities and also that of the whole CIA culture.When Muir learns that Bishop is at Su Chou prison, he realises who Bishop was trying to rescue and why. There is another flashback to tell about Bishop's meeting with Elizabeth Hadley (Catherine McCormack), and what follows.Hadley is an aid worker at a refugee camp in Beirut where Muir and Bishop have come to assassinate a terrorist commander. Bishop very quickly moves into Hadley's apartment. There is no explicit bed-wrestling, just a couple of early-morning scenes. This low-key approach by the writers makes a much stronger impression. We can see they are deeply committed.But Muir knows about Hadley's background and regards her as a threat both to Bishop and all the CIA's operations, so he organises her abduction and rendition to China.Six years go by. When Bishop is in Hong Kong, he hears about a white woman in a nearby prison and realises it must be his love, hence the rescue attempt, which very nearly succeeds.When Muir hears that the company will not even try to negotiate for the release of Bishop, he forges the Director's signature to authorise a Plan B that Bishop had prepared, and he uses his life's savings to bribe a power company manager to turn off the lights for thirty minutes. Plan B proceeds and succeeds, and Muir can retire happily.Redford and Pitt and McCormack play their parts superbly. They really become the characters. There are some great scenes, with great dialogue. The writers have done a great job, with some neat philosophical gems by Muir. Other actors are also great, Stephen Dillane, Marianne Jean-Baptiste especially.Only rated an 8, mainly because the movie really needs to be seen two or three times to pick up the connections between some incidents. "},{"Title":"How to carry a story","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I'd missed the Spy Game until it came on cable tonight.This is probably Tony Scott at his best, a twisted tale on the meaning of silent understanding of organizations and the complexity of the modern world. If only Tony had been there to direct Moses.Redford can carry a movie like few others and I was happy to see Brad Pitt put to good use, too. The scenes in Vietnam, East Germany and Beirut were unexceptionally great, too.There was remarkably little sentimentality or the all-too-common romantic add-ons in the story. An almost-British cynicism did a favor for the movie. Why I only give eight points is because of the ending. The trump card is a bit too thick, but still quite passable. I was happier with the storyline than the finale, but the latter is good enough. "},{"Title":"Great soundtrack","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The only reason I do not give this movie a 10 is because of some apparent flaws. But for once I am forgiving them all for a great story. This is after all not based on true events, no need to get the facts right. I loved the soundtrack, it put a lot of depth into the story. Seen it now 5 times, will see it again. For any fan of Brad Pitt, this movie is a must. His portray of the frustrated Vietnam vet behind a desk in Germany is well done. Robert Redford is never bad and excels as well. And the thing with Dinner Out, a touching masterpiece. Also for anyone into spy movies, I recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Not bad , but doesn't stay with you","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" At it's heart this is a simple story about friendship and love . The movie never really bothers to explore the world of secret agents . It never wants to become something really serious . If this was made in the 70's we probably would have a deep and meaningful movie. Here Tony Scott is interested only in making entertainment . The scene when Redford and Pitt talk at the top of the building is a symbol of that. Scott is more interested in playing with camera instead of that important conservation.It's not a bad movie . It's long , but moves along quite nicely . It's definitely entertaining and sometimes really nice looking. The acting is good . There are some small twists along the way. Some clever dialogue.It's just sad that instead of ambitious movie we have a nice entertainment &#x96; worth rental , but completely empty inside and leaves your head the very next day. I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"From Vietnam, to Beirut and a Cuban erosion crisis","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Capably led by Redford as the wily CIA supervisor on the verge of retirement whose send-off is overshadowed by the capture and imminent execution of one of his former agents in China. The film focuses on Redford's lone efforts to arrange Pitt's rescue, recounting in flashback his relationship with the former sniper from his initial recruitment and training, to daring operations behind enemy lines around the world spanning almost twenty years.It's comic-book stuff and looks purpose-built for both Redford and Pitt (Redford indisputably the headline act), with minor roles for David Hemmings as an ambassador to Hong Kong, Shane Rimmer and Charlotte Rampling as a former spy and love interest to Redford.Long and meandering, there's not much sense about the proceedings and yet it's fairly engaging material nonetheless with some effective action sequences, occasional humour (usually at the expense of pompous CIA boss Dillane) and even a moment or two of pathos as Pitt reveals a softer core that predictably jeopardises his position as both the master spy and fractures his friendship with the more pragmatic Redford. Not great, but not bad. "},{"Title":"Complicated, but good spy tale.  Redford and Pitt shine.","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Although I've actually known people who worked for the CIA (I lived just a few miles from CIA headquarters in Langley), like most Americans I know almost nothing about what it's really like to be a spy. But I know for certain it's nothing like James Bond movies. I have an idea that the spy business may be a bit more like this film portrays. So for realness, I'll give the plot of this film relatively high marks.And, the acting is top notch. Was Robert Redford ever not at least very good in a film? He's totally believable here. Same goes for Brad Pitt. Totally believable. As far as the supporting cast, you won't recognize many, but they do their jobs well.One cautionary note This is a complicated plot, and one you have to pay close attention to, or you'll miss a lot. So put the newspaper down and concentrate on the story. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Spy Game (2001)","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This tale has Robert Redford, as a soon to retire CIA agent who must defy his superiors and stage a daring rescue of his former protégé (Brad Pitt, who spends most of the film getting tortured in his prison cell). Really this is Redford's show and he proves that he still has the charisma to carry a film on his aging shoulders. The storyline is somewhat predictable, but the ways that Redford outsmarts his CIA handlers is still entertaining. Robert Redford and Brad Pitt are well cast, and work well together, even though they seem quite out of place in the 1975 sequence in flashback (Redford looks far too old, and Pitt would have been only 12 at the time!). I really appreciate the way that the story was told in flashback, as it slows the pace down while drawing you much deeper into the plot. Spy Game is sure to go down as a classic modern thriller. Great study piece for the workings of the CIA and the compromises they do with the devil for the greater good. A good case in point at how people working there are at the mercy of the top CIA insiders. If you like these subject matters, this movie is for you. Not really into this stuff? Then if you are a big fan of these hunks Redford and Pitt, you will be satisfied too!My Rating- 7/10 "},{"Title":"The ideal action movie","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I can't see why some people find Spy Game boring. It is one of the most exciting movies I have ever seen - keeps you thrilled from beginning to end! And at the same time it's one of the funniest. My whole family adores Redford's Nathan Muir and his dry humor (such as Every time my coach told me that, I knew I was about to get benched).Of course, some scenes in the movie can be frightening for someone - shootings, bombings and so on. But they are not too graphic, so I think for people who like action/crime/spy movies, it is all just fine.The setting of action in several completely different countries adds a lot of color and brightness to the movie.And... last but not least... there is the romance of Tom and Elizabeth. Although for a major part of the movie it is in the background, it always appears in time to remind the characters (and also the watchers) that there is more in this life than the CIA's cold rules and calculations. "},{"Title":"I didn't see any plot holes here ...","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Because the plot is covered plenty of other reviewers ... Not sure from whence some reviewers (including reliable old Roger Ebert!) acquired the notion that this movie covers 25, 30, or 40 years Muir meets Bishop some months before the final U.S. exodus from 'Nam (1975); Bishop leaves w/ that exodus. Present day is 1991 that's about 16 years.& Maybe we should take into account that people aged more quickly in 'Nam; whether covert or no. In any case, what's really far-fetched is Bishop as a sniper from 1965 thru 1975.There're also complaints about the superficial nature of the plot & the characters. Well, there's a superficial nature to clandestine ops. you ingratiate yourself into the bosom of your opposing number, but unless you've developed suicidal ideations, you don't make friends w/ him. This is shown admirably in the case of the traitor Schmidt.The movie's style is a metaphor for the style of the people it portrays if your job is declaring your brethren expendable, you are indeed shallow. Look @the task force careers devoted to expediency won't soon extend serious consideration to morality.Muir may be smart, but he's superficial too he views every phone call in terms of what it'll produce 6 rounds hence. All that's between him & Bishop is the new yuppie establishment one suspects if the task force were composed of Troy Folger types, Muir wouldn't think twice about letting the Chinese have their way w/ Bishop. But you have to be cold & calculating to betray your superiors while standing in their midst.As an aside, it's genius casting when the protégé is played by a guy (Pitt) whose star quality is on par w/ where that of his mentor's (Redford) was 40 years ago. A further irony Harry Duncan (Harry's a friend! Aren't they all!) is played by (now late) David Hemmings, who cut his teeth playing dashing fashion photogs (Blow Up) & knights (Alfred the Great) back in that 60s era. "},{"Title":"It's how the game plays you","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The pressing question which we can address first is, what elevates this above your average espionage thriller? The answer is twofold, it isn't just about the plot, where the backstory involves many angles and frame stories but also, the game being played and the way it transpires; something which is every bit as thrilling from a political perspective as it is physical. This film is a real separation between the people who walk the walk and talk the talk in contrast with those who don't. No doubt who wins.In one of his definitive modern roles, Robert Redford's playing of the corporate, political game and the means by which his character, Nathan Muir, influences the state of play is the stand out. In many ways, I felt this acted as quite the satire on bureaucracy and corporate politics, driven by Muir, who isn't your run of the mill administrator but a shrewd, wily facilitator and occasionally, cunning manipulator. On one occasion, Muir tells someone in jest albeit with a poker face that the person has something in their teeth. The vigour with which the person checks gives an idea of the man's powerful persuasive abilities but is also a reflection of the way he takes control of the game. Redford is so slick in how he carries this out that you are either chuckling at or left enamoured by his cleverness.The revolution around the mentor-pupil relationship defines the film. Redford and Brad Pitt function so inadvertently and naturally well. It's all about them within the bigger picture and they are a flawless team. Arguably either a protagonist or deuteragonist, depending on which way you look at it, Pitt takes on this role in a way that he is so dedicated and full of zeal for his craft but his conflicting morals and allegiance enhance both his credibility as a character and commendability for substantiating this into more than a shallow, spy role. Muir's morals may waver but his loyalty and honour do not. And that, on the whole, Is one of the nicest aspects of this movie, attaching a humanely side to stereotypically nameless, faceless people without an identity who belong to an institution of political secrets. Not to mention adding in some enthralling side play along the way. This probably does overstate the powers and capabilities of a man in such a high pressure, highly strung environment but its entertaining nonetheless leaving aside the acceptable exaggeration. This is as much about people as it is about countries, groups and other larger demographics. It certainly has a more individual touch than you would expect from a spy thriller and scripting which does not employ the usual suspects. It's a mix of action, suspense, politics and sly humour which progresses in a manner keeping you on the edge of your seat. "}{"Title":"Much better than it has any right to be","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For all its posturing and its stops along the blots on America's post-war copybook, Spy Game's probably no more realistic than The Spy Who Loved Me, but it is considerably better than expected considering its pedigree. Despite a few moments where he got carried away with the stylistics (such as the unintentionally hysterically funny freeze frame captions repeating a deadline every time someone mentioned it to underline the drama) and a rather silly ending, the pros definitely outweighed the cons for once in Tony Scott's espionage saga. Hearkening back to the cynicism of 70s conspiracy thrillers like Three Days of the Condor but ultimately lacking the guts to go all the way with its nihilism, it's a lot more engaging and entertaining than it has a right to be. But it is hard to believe that CIA execs would be so genuinely delighted at the prospect of their own agents being executed by foreign powers. "},{"Title":"Watchable, if never pulsating, middle of the road spy thriller","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A more or less by the numbers spy thriller. Saying that though by focusing the plot on Robert Redfords character (the older, wiser and soon to retire) 'old-school', desk bound CIA operative the film doesn't fall into the stereotypical action-cum-spy thriller with pyrotechnics every couple of minutes or rooms full of spy-geeks staring at screens showing the latest satellite 'intel' to cover plot ground.The film demonstrates that good old fashioned cunning and guile (plus knowing how the system works) is still enough to ensure that the right thing gets done. In this case the right thing is to try and ensure Brad Pitts character (the younger CIA field operative and Refords protégé) is freed from a Chinese prison instead of being left to the executioners in the name of political expediency from powerful people in suits high up in the US Administration and CIA.This is, in a nutshellm, the film - Redfords must spend his last day at work fighting against the system and senior 'men in suits' to try and get his errant protégé Pitt released from a foreign jail.Unfortunately the script and plots/sub-plots are never more than efficient, albeit fairly obvious. Brad Pitt hasn't too much to work with (and again he's efficient with what he has). The love interest in this film (and ultimately the reason Pitt's character ends up in the Chinese prison) is really quite weak - there's no on-screen chemistry and it stretches ones credulity a bit much for something so crucial to the story.All-in-all worth a view. In it's favour the film doesn't fall into the crash-bang-wallop category of other films in this genre, and therefore remains believable, and induces a little empathy for the characters. On the down side there's nothing new here from the actors or the story and it's quietness and averageness will probably ensure you've forgotten you've even seen this film after a couple of weeks. "},{"Title":"The thinking mans Spy Game.","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" CIA recruit learns the ropes only to discover the Spy Games is not as attractive as he thought.As of 2007 this has to be one of the best CIA / Covert Ops movies on the market and gives you a realistic view of what how the CIA operates.Director Tony Scott has done an excellent job, Redford and Pitt work well together, almost like a father and son team. The love interest Elizabeth Hadley played by Catherine McCormack is convincing and Stephen Dillane the CIA pencil neck Charles Harker is fun to watch as he tries to out wit Redford at every opportunity.If spy movies are your thing then this one should be on your shelf. "},{"Title":"Cracking spy thriller with an engaging plot","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This was a memorable spy film with a good above-average-intelligence plot and plenty of style. Even though it was hollywooded up, the film had a good sense of realism. There were no missiles firing out of cars and metal-cutting lasers that shoot out the side of a watch.In this film, the espionage and spy-related activities were more subtle and accordingly, much more realistic and intriguing.Aside from the good fundamentals, the film had two stand out features that gave it the complete package feel. The first was Robert Redford. I am one of those film-goers who bemoans the loss of magnificent acting talents and embraces good looking dead heads to mindlessly work their way through the script. Redford has a magnificent speaking voice, a dramatic on-screen presence and controlled yet powerful tone that is almost non-existent in the current up-and-coming crop of popular actors. But Redford is from the old school, where true acting talent was the first criterion upon which you'd be hired to do a film. Probably the only stand out actor/actress of the modern era, with plenty of presence and power, is Hillary Swank.The second thing that made this film special was the fact that the film seamlessly jumped between the past and present. I love films where the characters are revisiting events of the past rather than a simply linear story. It allows the film-makers to highlight the essentials and leave out the boring connecting story line.Cracker and highly recommended viewing. "},{"Title":"Who is the guy that walked out of the van?","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" On the scene where they get caught who is the Chinese dude that got out of the van and turned back and started walking? That part totallyconfused me and made me THINK that that guy was Tom's friend back inNam and that he was the prisoner and that he went back to save thatguy... I never saw it was the girl until they brought it up.Ahh this movie so confusing.Can someone explain to me this whole movie lol.How is Hadly, Muir's wife.. And in other threads how can Bishop be Muir's son. He slept with Hadly -_- (So if Hadly was his mom, he slept with his mom?) "},{"Title":"Espionage action with a soul","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" CIA espionage agent Nathan Muir (Robert Redford), on his last day before retirement, learns that his protégé, Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt), has been taken prisoner by the Chinese government and is about to be executed for spying. While giving a report on Bishop to agents unwilling to help, Muir attempts behind the scenes manuevers to help.This appears to be a casually slick and superficial genre movie with enjoyable twists and turns. In fact, though, it's a well-filmed (and slick) character piece. The relationship between Redford and Pitt is the core of the movie. Pitt is sometimes a marvelous actor, and sometimes a dreadful one, but the roll of the dice favored him in Spy Game and he is incredibly solid and watchable. Meanwhile it's also a spy movie about spying, and about spy movies, more than it is a particular espionage piece. This sounds thoughtful and introspective but it isn't. Spy Game is another stupid action movie, but with a soul. "},{"Title":"gotta see movie","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is probably ,one of the best Spy Movies i've ever seen.Unlike the charming,wham bam thank you m'am spies we've seen in Bond and other gadget brandishing spies.Muir(Redford) shows us how attentive,intelligent and observant spies are.And gives me a whole new,and outlook on the work,training of these individuals.His taking of Bishop(Pitt) under his wing,his training,and his arrangement of the whole operation DINNER OUT,was way too cool.Redford delivered a character ,whose intelligence ,you can't help but admire.The way,he captured things,picked up information,and got people to tell him what he wanted.Thumbs up to this movie. "},{"Title":"Classy thriller lacks excitement","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this one (must've been 2002) it was late at night, and if I remember correctly I had had a wine or two too many as well. The second time I saw it was with a winy friend who didn't feel like watching a movie. Sucker!But even without those handicaps, 'Spy Game' is tough to figure out. It doesn't help that within the first scene we see Brad Pitt somewhere in some hospital, but why, when, how?Over the course of the movie we find out the relationship between him and Robert Redford (who's in Langley (I think) the entire time), how they met in the far east and what happened next.It's a classy thriller (leave that up to Scott), but unclear in it's meanings and not really satisfying in the end. On the whole 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Robert Redford and Brad Pitt are the reasons to see 'Spy Game.'","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSIt appears from the distribution of votes, this movie has received more success than it earned. My wife and I watched it, and enjoyed every suspenseful minute of it. I suspect there really are covert operations similar to those depicted here. But the story in 'Spy Game' does not have great substance. It is a fairly simple story of Pitt's character being imprisoned in China and about to retire Redford's character doing whatever he can think of, pull whatever covert strings he can, all the while fooling his own intelligence personnel to try and get his pupil free before he gets executed. Pitt is good, but the real reason to enjoy this movie is Redford, and he shows why he has had such a long and successful career acting. We never find out much about the characters or their motivation, and when it ends and Redford is driving away while his bosses puzzle over what just happened, we feel a bit like we did at the end of 'The Usual Suspects'.The critic Ebert has an unusually clear and accurate review of the details of the story.  "},{"Title":"A rock and a hard place","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game concerns the endeavors of Nathan Muir (Redford) in trying to free his  protege, Tom Bishop (Pitt), who's gone off to find the woman he loved as she's stuck in a  Chinese jail. About 1/3 of the movie's events take place in 1991, with Muir trying to  outfox his CIA superiors throughout the course of two days before his retirement from  the Agency and trick the nearest military camp into liberating Bishop and his woman. Much of the picture takes place in flashbacks, and that's obviously the more interesting  offering. The passage of time is discernible through Pitt's changing haircuts, and a  pretty enthralling set piece in Beirut essentially caps the film, even if there's actually still  20 minutes left before it's over. This is a solid, underrated and imperfect piece of movie. It's got a lot of visual panache,  emulating different atmospheres and tensions for different settings - the sleek,  streamlined D.C. offices of the agency, the smoky, deteriorating cities of Germany, gritty  war-torn Beirut, etc. Tony Scott's always been underrated for his skill at combining  visual ideas with tones (or, less glowingly, switching the two.) The script moves like  clockwork, with the characters throwing lines - some clichéd, some not - at each other  snappily and cheerfully, and emoting when necessary. Everybody appears to have taken  the project seriously enough, but nobody was trying to win an Oscar for it either. The  music is effective and dramatic, and at times poundingly good, but this goes back to the  combination of visuals. The characters are likeable and instantly involving, but this is  only thanks to the two lead actors. In anyone else's hands, I should think it would be  hard to care about Bishop or Muir quite like we do (albeit disposably) in this movie.The trouble is, there's not enough mindless action - it's too smart - to make this an all- out bloodbath, and too little character development and truly remarkable writing to  make it a Big Piece Of Art - or a Riveting Drama. Everyone does a great job, but it's not  truly memorable for its pathos, nor does it try to be. This doesn't make it a tedious  movie or anything, but it doesn't help the generally talky story along for audience  members who're convinced they've seen it all before. Scott knows how to make some  papers shuffled into an envelope exciting, but after an hour and a half I found myself  aching for the inevitable explosion. When there IS action, it's performed with a kind of  chipper proficiency. The cast and filmmakers' real relish here appears to be with the  characters and story (which, as a sidenote, is mildly informative) but what's the anchor  here? There's barely enough chutzpah in the dialogue & aesthetics to keep it interesting,  but never spectacular. Still, hats remain off to Scott and company for cutting it as close  as possible.  "}{"Title":"What if it was only spying for spying's sake ??","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   Spy Game is an entertaining movie , one of the movies which engages your mind through the whole movie. Although 126 minutes is considered rather lengthy these days, it's not boring at all. That's what is naturally expected from the director Tony Scott.  But what is irritating in  Spy Game is that when you review the movie in your mind later - after all the exciting story is finished - you realize that after all it's an American hero who solve all the problems. Although the American patriotism is not as severe as Scott's older movies like Top Gun, but it still exists.  One may wonder why should such classy actors  - Robert Redford, Brad Pitt, .... -  should accept such scripts.  The movie openly shows scenes of violence in China and Middle East.  How long will they continue using such villains - they remind you of Rambo - even in serious movies like this one.  The worst thing the movie shows about CIA is that they have some clandestine meetings and they sometimes prefer trade over people's life.  But who doesn't know that ?? What many Americans still don't know is that people of third world countries are not wild animals.  When some respectable artists play in a film like this, then it is no wonder why a cowboy like George Bush want to conquer all the world.    The soundtrack including Brothers in Arms by Dire Straits and Rocky Mountain Way by Joe Walsh supports the energetic movie score.Photography and editing give some extra speed to the movie.Let's hope that someday even the action movies become indifferent whether people are American, British, Arab or Chinese.  A real spy game should be spying for spying's sake not for racial sake.  This movie tries to do that, but it is still not enough.I rate this movie 6 of 10 for being technically well-made. "},{"Title":"I liked it even though the plot is unbelievable","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The best thing about this movie was the editing and camera style. I liked how the camera would pan around the characters in some scenes. I did have a problem with Robert Redford's age. He looked just as old during the Vietnam scenes as he did in the 1991 scenes.  And Brad Pitt didn't really look much younger in the 'nam scenes either.  As for the plot, I don't really believe that someone could just forge a secret mission like that and have it carried out in an hour.  Wouldn't it have taken that Wiley guy time to prepare a team to go into the prison.  But, if you look past that, the movie is pretty good.  I did like the beginning when Brad Pitt tries to rescue the girl from the prison.  That was a good plan.FINAL VERDICT  Brad Pitt is as cute as always, so worth watching just for him.  Not a lot of action, but I found it to be entertaining. "},{"Title":"Average spy drama","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The form of this film would be much more successful as a novel than as a narrative motion picture. We don't need the edgy guitar riffs during the training sequence, we don't need the hyperspeed transition cuts, we don't need to be told what time it is. What we do need is a little more suspense and intrigue. Give the viewer a little credit. When you have a story that is SMARTER than the average viewer only THEN do you have to start worrying about losing people. The flashbacks were too long and served little purpose. The riskiest action undertaken by the protagonist in this thriller is hiding some files and sneaking off to use a co-workers phone. That isn't going to cut it. Nice Porsche 912 though....  "},{"Title":"Intelligent Espionage thriller","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished watching Spy Game on video and I throughly enjoyed it.I wished I hadn't missed the opportunity to see it in the cinema it would have been great on the big screen.You don't see many realistic movies nowadays in the spy genre but this was one of them.I love the way it was shot and it had cool action sequences.Robert Redford was terrific in his role and of course Brad Pitt was great as usual.I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a raw spy thriller. "},{"Title":"Would the real Tony Scott Please stand up!","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I consider Top Gun to be be one of the top-notch movies of the 80s, and a modern Classic. I have lost count of times that I have watched it and every single time I have felt a jolt and and rush. This is why, every time I have watched a Tony Scott directed movie, I have always found myself pulling my hair as to how director of Top Gun make such horrible and mindless movies! How could he trick Robert De-Niro, one of the greatest actors of all time, to do a horrible flick like The Fan. How could he blatantly try to repeat the formula for Top Gun in Days of Thunder. Every time I watched Tony Scott movies, I vowed not to watch them again.So I feel lucky that I didn't know Spy Game was Tony Scott movie. I only got it cause of Redford and Pitt. When the movie began, and Tony Scott's name came up, I had already given up. When the plot didn't seem to go anywhere for a quiet a while, I told myself that's a lesson for me for not checking who the director was. Then something amazing happened! The movie started to look cool! Something in the movie started pulling me towards it. Something started to make me care for the fate of lead character, played by Brad Pitt. Then it got even better! Once we are told why hero is where he is, one has no choice but to view the whole movie, and every character in it in a whole new light! All of a sudden it becomes a powerful, beautiful, gripping, romantic epic!The gradual, and then a sudden transformation of characters is what grabbed my interest, and one goes from not really caring to not being able to relax! The most amazing quality of the movie is that its a twenty-four hour thriller, and yet one is introduced to the entire career of lead character. This leaves one with the feeling of watching an epic like Ben-Hur at the pace of Die-Hard!!! Its totally contradicting and unique feeling.The photography is just exceptional. The locations, the sets are totally convincing. The acting by all the characters is just awesome. The screen-play is great. Not a single dialogue is wasted! The whole atmosphere is just totally cool! The ending is perfect!!!I forgive Tony Scott for tormenting us with his work since Top Gun. Maybe it wasn't his fault at all, and it was that jack-ass, Jerry Buckheimer who was the producer on most of those projects, and whose influence effected the talents and performance of Tony Scott. Hope he manages to stay away from Buckheimer in future! This movie is not just a good movie, but a GREAT movie! It is amazingly powerful movie, as it grabs you and moves you. Its going to be part of my collection soon!  "},{"Title":"aside from the one-liners, not bad.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  outside of some stupid cliches and predictable one-liners with references to, of course, body parts and sex; an ok movie.lots of action. robert redford's always wonderful to watch. sometimes movie seems to try too much its camera shots and editing effects. "},{"Title":"Best intelligent spy movie since Three Days of the Condor","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  We have not enjoyed a spy movie this much in years!  Don't get me wrong, I love James Bond and Austin Powers (for vastly different reasons), but truly intelligent espionage movies are few and far between.  This is a movie you don't leave to get popcorn or drinks.  The writing is wonderful.  The story is tightly woven and a seamless combination of dialogue and visual storytelling.  The acting is right on target.If you like espionage movies or just appreciate great writing, don't miss this movie! "},{"Title":"A MASTERPEICE PRODUCTION","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game deserves more credit and attention, but it likely will not receive it because smart, sweeping thrillers like this usually go right over the heads of the American public. It's taut, beautifully crafted, produced, edited and acted. This is a classic spy thriller and it makes Behind Enemy Lines look even more white-trashy and pretentious than it already is. It's my Best Film of the Year. Everything Tony Scott touches is GOLD. This is the CRAFT of filmmaking at its best.  "},{"Title":"flashbacks without purpose","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It felt like the director was trying to make the movie complicated with all the flashbacks and forwards just to confuse rather than a real story telling purpose.  The bashing of incompetent CIA got a bit boring. The movie was trying to sell you on this a deep plot, after a lot of deep thought, I figured it out, the whole movie was designed as a vehicle for Redford. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Hollywood","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Holywood action thriller yet tinged with intelligence that takes this movie to the next level.Very good production that screams for more depth and better make-up to turn into a masterpiece.But still,this movie is a classic action thriller for sure.Great study piece for the workings of the CIA and the compromises they do with the devil for the greater good.A good case in point at how we are at the mercy of the top CIA insiders.If you like these subject matters,this movie is for you.Not really into this stuff?Then if you are a big fan of these hunks Redford and Pitt,you will be satisfied too!Redford is a little on the grey side but still plays cool/sexy well and holds his own with Pitt.Major flaw is when they hardly age during the 1975/1985 flashback sequences.They must have known make up does wonders since the 90's.......  "}{"Title":"TOO Long","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was a really good movie, but it was really long.  I was sitting on the edge of my seat, only because I couldn't wait to get up. Brad Pitt's 80's hairdo was interesting as was seeing the inside stuff in the CIA headquarters.  If you're looking for action or romance, don't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"'It's not how you play the game. It's how the game plays you.'","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Some movies get better with age - just like the two main actors of this splendid thriller, Robert Redford (now 77) and Brad Pitt (now 50). SPY GAME as written by Michael Frost Beckner and David Arata and directed with distinction by Tony Scott reminds us how thrilling films of this ilk can be without the need for computer generated aliens, or vampires, or werewolves, or zombies or outrageous extraterrestrial effects, etc. The dialogue is smart, balanced with humor when appropriate, and played with a fine assemblage of actors who know how to terrify us simply by telling a visual story.CIA operative Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) is on the brink of retirement when he finds out that his protégé Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) has been arrested in China for espionage. No stranger to the machinations of the CIA's top echelon, Muir hones all his skills and irreverent manner in order to find a way to free Bishop. As he embarks on his mission to free Bishop, Muir recalls how he recruited and trained the young rookie, at that time a sergeant in Vietnam, their turbulent times together as operatives and the woman who threatened their friendship. There is of course the requisite female agent (Catherine McCormack), a top member of the CIA (Stephen Dillane) who allows us to see how corrupt that organization can be, and the ever grounded secretary (Marianne Jean-Baptiste) to remind us that the people involved in this world wide intrigue are really just human beings - even if they misbehave in their jobs.Made in 2001 this film remains a skillful winner - just the ticket for watching in the stifling heat of summer time. And it is such a pleasure to watch the magic that Redford and Pitt weave. Highly recommended and it is so VERY timely in 2013! Grady Harp "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Spy Thrillers","Date":"10 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game is a spy film thriller that stars Robert Redford and Brad Pitt. It was shown in 2001 - the same year the World Trade Center was attacked by terrorists.The plot involves CIA operative Nathan Muir,played by the multi-talented Redford,is on the brink of retirement.He then finds out that his protégé,Tom Bishop,played excellently by Brad Pitt,has been arrested in for espionage. No stranger to the machinations of the CIA's top echelon, Muir hones all his skills and irreverent manner in order to find a way to help Bishop. As he embarks on his mission,he recalls how he recruited and trained the young Bishop, at that time a sergeant in Vietnam, their turbulent times together as operatives. The film was masterfully directed by Tony Scott. This is one of the best films I have ever seen especially for a spy thriller.It works at all levels.The story was suspenseful from beginning to end.It was fast paced and interesting from beginning to end.All major and minor characters were interesting.The film has a lot of intelligence in terms of the story and characters involved.The acting was also exceptional.Aside from Pitt and Redford,it is also worth mentioning that Catherine McCormack,Stephen Dillane,Larry Bryggman and Marianne Jean- Baptiste provided excellent performances as Elizabeth Hadley,Charles Harker,CIA Deputy Director Troy Folger and Muir's secretary,Gladys with a lot of smarts and craft. Overall,the film simply works at all level for it was not simply a spy thriller but it also provides us an insight on how the CIA works and the insight on an emotional spy.Highly recommended for movie viewers who desires intelligent action thrillers.It definitely deserves a 10/10 rating. "},{"Title":"Redford seeks to free Pitt from a Chinese prison","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game is a 2001 directed by Tony Scott and starring Robert Redford and Brad Pitt. Redford plays Nathan Muir, a CIA man getting ready to retire. On his last day, he finds out that one of his operatives, Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) is in a Chinese prison awaiting execution. After a series of meetings, in which he recounts his relationship with Bishop, including his recruitment, it occurs to him that because of an upcoming trade conference, the CIA is going to let Bishop be executed.I remember this film receiving horrific reviews when it was released. In fact, with two great stars and top direction, it's not bad at all. There's a lot of action, and the complicated story, which could have been a muddled mess, is well told.My only problem with this film - I know this sounds shallow - is the way Robert Redford looks. I was around when he first became popular, and - well, even in 2001, he was looking pretty old. I find it sad that such a gorgeous man has aged so atrociously. I commend him for not going the plastic surgery route, and it's obvious he considered his looks a curse rather than a blessing. Thankfully, he continues to make wonderful contributions to film, wrinkles and all. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie . . .","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoilers!!! . . . well, at least currently my favorite movie.  My all time favorite would have to be Fight Club.  As you may have figured out, I'm a pretty big Brad Pitt fan, which is the main reason I saw this movie.Okay, we'll talk about the bad aspects first (there weren't many). Obviously this movie wasn't setting out to be the next James Bond or True Lies.  They were looking to portray a more accurate story of what spies do. I believe they succeeded at this on most levels, however, it still felt a bit like hollywood.  Also, Catherine McCormack was decent as the love interest, but not that great.  I don't really think she held up well opposite Pitt and Redford.Okay, the good aspects.  I thought that Pitt and Redford's performances were amazing!!!  I loved their characters.  Robert Redford was obviously one of the best spies that the CIA had.  Everything was by the book.  As far as he was concerned, if you deviate from the plan even a little bit, you run too great a risk of blowing the operation.  Perhaps my favorite scene was on the rooftop in Berlin after Brad Pitt had to leave one of his assets behind.Tom Nathan, what happened, what went wrong? Nathan Nothing. Tom Nothing? Nathan Actually, one thing don't ever question me again. Ever. Tom What? Nathan I give you an order you take it.  You don't ask why.  That ten seconds on the phone could have blown the op. Tom The Op was bringing Schmidt across. Nathan The op was setting up Ann Cathcart and your end had to look legit. Tom What are you telling me, Schmidt was bait? Nathan Yes. Tom Nathan, they executed him on a sh***y Cellar floor!!!! Nathan And it could have been you, and let me tell you something about Schmidt; he went to the Russians a week ago and said he had an American contact, someone he could use. Tom Don't tell me that!  Don't f***ing tell me that!!  You didn't look into his eyes!!!  Don't tell me that!!!! Nathan He was your asset, someone you use for information. Tom Ahhh, Jesus Christ.  You don't just trade these people like they're baseball cards.  This is not a f***ing game. Nathan Yes it is.  And this is no kids game either, this is a whole other type of game.  And it's serioius and it's dangerous and it's not one you wanna lose. Tom Nathan, we killed this man.  We used him and we killed him. (Nathan says nothing) Tom Okay, then you gotta help me understand this one, Nathan, what are we doing here?  And don't gimme some bullshit about the greater good. Nathan That's exactly what it is.  Because unfortunately what we do is very necessary and if you're not willing to sacrifice scum like Schmidt for those who want nothing more than their freedom then you better take a long hard look at your chosen profession my friend because it doesn't get any easier. You wanna walk -- You wanna walk?  Walk. Tom You shoulda told me about the op.  You used me. Nathan I did and listen to this 'cuz this is important if you were to pull some crazy stunt over there if you were to get nabbed I wouldn't come after you.  You go off the reservation I will not come after you. (get's up and walks away) Tom F**k your rules, Nathan. (looks back) Nathan Okay.  But tonight they saved your life.You'll notice from that scene that Redford's character, Nathan, followed the rules so strictly and was so careful about not getting caught or anyone he was responsible for not getting caught, that he was willing to sacrifice one of their informant's life.  You'll notice at the end of the movie, however, that Nathan did rescue Tom from pulling some crazy stunt.  This goes to show how much Nathan actually cared for Tom.Nathan also taught Bishop to put away some money so you can die some place warm.  Don't ever touch it.  Not for anyone.  If it comes to you or them send flowers.  Nathan had saved up $282 000 for his retirement that he spent without hesitation to get Tom out of the Chinese prison.Basically, Tom ended up changing Nathan.  The student teaching the teacher. Nathan wasn't following the rules so rigidly by the end of the movie.Whew, okay, I gotta go to class.  So I'm gonna write down my less inteligent thoughts really quick.  I thought that the blue and white jacket Brad Pitt had on during the scene where he was being trained was sweeeeeet.  I want it.  I thought the fact that the movie took place over sixteen years was convincing enough.  Pitt and Redford don't seem to get much older in real life either.  I guess Pitt was supposed to go from early twenties to late thirties and Redford from early forties to late fifties.  Convincing enough I thought.  Oh, and yes I'm aware that it's quite frightening that I knew that scene off by heart.  I've just watched the movie so many times.Anyway, I loved this movie.  Great acting, action, and plot. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Disappointing fare...","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game has the roots of a workable premise, but is sabotaged by bludgeoning pretentiousness, heavy reliance on stylistic gimmickery, and a complete lack of empathy-worthy characters. Described by some as an intelligent, thinking film, this ludicrous mess is anything but. The running length of the film would be barely adequate time to catalog the plot holes alone. Since I love a good spy caper, I had high hopes for this one, but I was left feeling manipulated, underestimated  and disappointed.***SPOILERS AHEAD***The trendy video-influenced camera work and editing can be appreciated aesthetically in and of itself, but as a substitute for style and pacing, it is merely annoying. The flashback scene transitions are heavy-handed. For example Redford's character begins his fond recall of his days in Vietnam, organising assassinations. So what do we get? Cue stereotypical 'Nam era rock-n-roll and (I kid you not) sepia-toned film stock! This is to suggest - what? That it is a flashback? Fine, but then one must use sepia-toning for *all* the flashbacks. To suggest it was the good old days?!? It's an empty stylistic gesture in a film packed to the limit with them.The entire framing story of the Chinese prison could easily have been jettisoned to concentrate on the more interesting story of of the two agents and the evolution of the surrogate father/son angle, ultimately ending with Pitt's character's change of heart about the business, and Redford's character's reaction to same. Which brings me to my biggest problem with this film why am I supposed to care about any of these people? Tom Bishop is a CIA assassin and spy turned rogue who may grimace a bit, but still manages to leave a trail of bodies. The girl Hadley is an admitted terrorist who has bombed a building and killed government officials. Nathan Muir is a black-ops specialist who freely spends lives and organises bombings in a cavalier fashion, but we are supposed to like him because he is nice to his secretary. And if I heard right in the film, Muir is the one who had Hadley kidnaped off the streets of Beirut and traded to the Chinese in the first place! What a pal, eh? Muir has some lines about being the good guys and having a purpose, but he is actually the most reprehensible character in the film, not discernably different than the terrorists he eliminates.Bishop and Hadley are, in actuality, both entirely guilty of what they are accused of, and the Chinese are within their rights to have imprisoned them. And Muir is supposedly redeemed at the end by the fact that he used his retirement fund to finance the improbable rescue mission? Pardon me, but didn't he make that money bombing and assassinating people? Then, having outwitted the lummoxes in charge of the CIA, he drives off into the sunset in his Porsche?Please.For an *intelligent* spy movie, see The Spy Who Came In From The Cold. I've seen detergents that leave a better film than Spy Game. "},{"Title":"eye candy for women","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is dull, the action in vision bytes, and the characters not developed.  The photography is grainy, didn't these guys attend a photography class? Good chick flick because of the eye candy.  Not a good movie for action or plot. "},{"Title":"Terrific Caper Movie; Possibly Redford's Best Performance","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is one helluva caper; a cat and mouse between Redford and his bosses at the Central Intelligence Agency.  One the last day before Redford retires, he discovers his estranged protégé (Brad Pitt) has been captured in mainland China during an abortive, and unauthorized rescue attempt.  Realizing Pitt is to be sacrificed for the sake of US / Chinese trade talks, Redford has 24 hours to clandestinely use government resources and contacts to free Pitt.  Thus, this is more a caper movie than strictly a spy film.Much of the story is told in flashback, but this in no way detracts from the suspense.  Redford is remarkable, creating the most lovable S.O.B. I've ever witnessed on screen.  Considering my built-in prejudices against Redford (I usually feel he acts like a narcissistic jerk), this is a special accomplishment.One major quibble there is virtually no chemistry between Pitt and Catherine McCormick.  This may be due to the story being filtered through Redford's memory.  Nevertheless, it does undercut the film. This is ironical, since a deleted scene shows QUITE A BIT of chemistry between Redford and McCormick.Spy Game is a keeper. I'd give it a 9. "},{"Title":"Pure gibberish","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Really terrible plot/ storyline and only mediocre acting. The writer obviously 'borrowed' some ideas from well known books and other movies (ie. the training exercise where Pitt has to appear in the balcony of a window is taken from a book about a Mossad officer (and possibly other sources)), and the facts are not accurate (ie. Embassy bombing in Lebanon where 211 civilians killed in mid 1980's? Maybe they're thinking of the Marine barracks that were bombed and 245 Marines were killed.)Besides all of that, the story just drags on with no real purpose. The idea is that Pitt has been captured by the Chinese in an attempt to free some political prisoner. The CIA wants to know what Pitt was doing when he got captured and then decide what to do about it - ignore/ deny it or try to help him. The whole movie is then just Redford rambling on about how he met Pitt, recruited, trained, and worked with him. None of this would seem to have a bearing on the alleged plot.Story line had many flaws as well (BEWARE - spoilers ahead) Why would a highly trained and experienced spy (Pitt) make a stupid mistake like giving chewing gum to some unknown prisoner during a dangerous mission?(Why would he even have gum with him?); Why would Pitt risk his life to save this woman he only barely knew some 6 years previous and who left him with only a 'Dear John' letter (as far as he knew)?; Why would Redford throw away his life savings/ retirement house in the Bahamas and risk jail time to get Pitt out of prison when they didn't even like each other and hadn't spoken in the past 6 years (not to mention Redford's 'rules' about not risking anything for 'resources')? Whatever - I don't mind far-fetched plots when that is the pretext for the movie, but when they try to play it off as factual and believable, then all of this gibberish is irksome.Last but not least - the acting is uninspired and bland. Personally, I think Redford is overrated as an actor and Pitt has had better performances.I could go on, but this movie doesn't warrant it. (I've already spent more effort on this comment than the writers, directors, producers, actors, et spent making the movie.) I rate it a 3/10. "},{"Title":"What I Did For Love","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In Spy Game, Robert Redford plays a spy with feelings. He's risen high in the Central Intelligence Agency and looking towards a nice retirement on some tropical beach. But Brad Pitt who he brought into the agency straight from being a sniper in Vietnam has gone off on an unauthorized mission that's not something the spy people usually deal in. He's gotten himself caught in a Chinese prison and is ready to be executed in 24 hours.The CIA has written him off, but Redford hasn't not by any means. As he plays agency politics, he also reminisces about his 16 year relationship with Pitt from Vietnam in 1975 until the capture which takes place in 1991.It's a particularly embarrassing situation for the agency because the president is just about to embark on a good will mission. More so because if you remember the president in 1991 was one George H.W. Bush who was both a former CIA director and Ambassador to China. Spy Game is a good, not great film. Unfortunately the film does not develop any secondary characters at all which in Redford's scenes at the Langley, Virginia headquarters would have been of vital importance. Spy Game is strictly a star vehicle.Why is Redford doing this, it could be any number of reasons, not the least of which is a not too subtle gay relationship he's having with Pitt. Also whereas spies are disposable people, and folks know that going into that field of employment, Redford is still operating as a military man from Vietnam who has a great distaste for not going back for his men on a given mission.Why has Pitt got himself in this jackpot in the first place. For that you have to see the film. "}{"Title":"Utterly overrated piece of cinematographic trash","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is trite, meaningless, unlovingly, unconvincingly put together, counterfeit, plain bad, and from the starting material totally disappointing. If you look at Redford and Pitt you will notice though, that they both have proven on more than one occasion, either that they are not interested in the material or that they simply are not really good at smelling B-film material.The script for this film is so utterly boring, filled with stupid and risible clichés it is mind-boggling. The way top agents deliver headline news from 15-20 years ago as if they were discussing top secret actions is almost funny. Otherwise it is very hard to keep your attention on this film, as there are no details that are even remotely interesting.Humanly the storyline is also quite poor in development and credibility. This is in part the responsibility of the actors or should I say the casting director. As often with Pitt and maybe to a lesser degree Redford, there is no chemistry. The story suffers as we are supposed to believe that the people in this movie are intensely involved with one another.Apart from the script and the actors I was appalled by the lack of pace in some parts and the forced pace in others. Especially the start of the movie tries to pull us by the shirt when we haven't even begun to understand what the pooha is all about. This is because all the cinematographic tricks in this phase and also later on are unimaginatively thrown in without any freshness. The action becomes lame and feels forced.I switched at 3/4 and had fun with the last half of When Harry Met Sally. That one's worth my time, at least.  "},{"Title":"Anti Americanism rampant in user comments","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Now about the movie..its pretty bad not because of the politics...Mind you I like movies even if I dont agree with their political views(Redfords Sneakers for eg).The movie is just too boring..Its vast potential of excitement and intrigue have been squandered by heavy handed political correctness and an incredibly dull romance betweeen Brad Pitt and whatsherface.I detested the predictable political correctness and its juvenile moral posturing.We are supposed to feel sympathy for that leftist lady who was once a terrorist herself but ridiculously disapproves of American intervention in Lebanon!!Of course she is portrayed in a positive light because of her leftist views!!Brad Pitt's character was a complete dumbass who didnt belong in the job in the first place.I wouldve liked to see them both rot in that Chinese jail for the rest of their lives. The CIA is portrayed unfairly,forget about the Chinese trade connection,they shouldve let him rot in jail just because he doesnt know how to follow orders!!He is also a goddamn idiot!Who needs such a person in the CIA?!Tony Scott should be ashamed.Shame Shame on you Tony Scott!Why dont you just quit and let your brother Ridley make films that are unapologetically heroic and noble(Black Hawk Down). "},{"Title":"Masterclass !  A clever thriller which is extremely Stylish.","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie will be liked by those who like thrillers sans gory actions.Maverick and his protégé.. Thats what i call Robert Redford and Brad Pitt..They are so similar in their looks and mannerisms.. maybe Brad looks more like Bob in the Moneyball..but here.. in little shades.Now coming to the story.. Its a concoction of Spys, espionage's, misunderstandings.. and above all, Love and Righteousness. Why Love Its what Brad does to show his love for the heroine..! Why Righteousness Its what Bob does against all odds to jail-out his protégé..This movie has crispy and memorable dialogs, nuances of CIA games and very focused direction. I think this is Tony Scott's best film to date .. considering little action but more character understudy with a tightest plot. Fans of Bob and Brad are going to watch this movie more than few times like myself simply because its a Superbly laid out story with twists and turns never leaving you off the hook.. I wonder why they cast Catherine McCormack when there were so many better Irish/English actresses around. She looks mummified and sick.. One thing which just sticks to you after watching the movie is the performance of Robert Redford who gives a collage of emotions during the course of his last day in his office.. Bravo Bob. "},{"Title":"Replace Catherine McCormack and the movie would have win an Oscar.","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am currently considering giving it a 7.5 or even higher, because it's apparently above the average. As a political/espionage thriller, it stands firmly on the core of story--friendship beyond politics and era.The highlight of the movie is not the action, although the actions are tight and well edited. Over the two hours of viewing, audiences will find Mr. Redford most fascinating. He is the real star here. In my opinion he deserved to be nominated by the main stream awards. He gave a performance very memorable, multi-dimensional and with good character development. Brad Pitt did his part OK, although from time to time he doesn't really look like a soldier more alike a cowboy. What really drags the film is the female lead, Catherine McCormack. She doesn't feel comfortable in the whole picture at all, and the romance between her and Pitt was totally a farce since she looks a decade older than Pitt, not to mention her manly tough look. Every time when she's on the screen a lame tenor song plays to coordinate her existence, that's really at odds with the entire film. Could they be deleted, I'd give Spy Game an 8.As a Chinese I also like to mention the portrait of China in the movie is not accurate. First off, the prisons would never be touched by foreigners, be it International Aid Org or Red Cross or anything. Secondly, Su Chou was not a coast city at all, and Chinese army would never allow their soldiers to have pet birds on duty...... For the negative portrait of the bureaus I can take that. But all in all, they need to do their homework to polish such details.Tony Scott is surely a master of thriller, at the same time he may need to improve on certain criteria like casting, more relevant film score, etc. "},{"Title":"Intellectual exciting   SPY  GAME","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game（2001） In 1991, the Cold War is almost ending. CIA operative Nathan Muir is nearly on the corner of retirement when he finds out Tom Bishop is captured in China for his secret agency. No one has an idea to rescue him in the CIA's top echelon. Muir hones his expertise for freeing Bishop. While he was searching and rescuing Bishop, Muir recalls how he trained him in many places. This is spy agency movie. But, this includes intellectual negotiation and diplomatic mission, never just action movie which guys loves. This is not only exciting, but also needs intellectual thinking. And, this shows what is real friendship among men. Bishop is struggle with friendship among him and Muir and love relation among him and a woman. This is a real issue for every person. Which do you choose friendship or love relationship? If you choose friendship, you cannot get together with a woman whom you love. In the other hand, If you choose love relationship, You cannot have a best friend whom you can talk without constrain. This movie looks action movie, but in real, thought provoking movie I think. "},{"Title":"Redford plays a great game of chess...","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film has a strong script, and a great narrative feel.As the perfectly cast Redford pits his wits against the CIA and other obstacles, you learn what drives him and the people around him, and the history that binds them. Each retrospective episode works as a mini film in itself, and there are some really surprising performances - notably the Doctor, who eventually gets involved in the war that Redford and Pitt are involved in. It is a tragic yet inevitable moment, and brings you into contact with all the peripheral casualties that a war includes.On the negative side, Tony Scott experiments with some glitzy and irritating camera techniques (v.fast pans, swoops, zooms), which add nothing to my mind. If it were a boring film, then maybe it would make it seem less so, but Spygame really doesn't need this.The music can also at times be embarrassingly corny. There is a Aled Jones type choir peace that accompanies one particular theme repeatedly, and simplifies the situation to a 'good v. evil' theme. When you are aware of all the numerous shades of grey in any situation like this (as shown in the film so well) this seems inappropriate.Conclusion a great film, complex, great characterisation, all actors earn their money! You need to concentrate on it though as there is a lot of detail, and if you miss any of it, it could get confusing. "},{"Title":"Average if enjoyable espionage thriller","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" On the day of his retirement, CIA handler Nathan Muir is asked for all his files on one-time protégé Tom Bishop &#150; a source tells Muir that the reason is that Bishop has been captured while on a mission. Concealing the majority of his files Muir gets himself involved in the meeting and finds himself desperately trying to help Bishop from the inside. With others within the agency seemingly happy to have Bishop executed as a criminal rather than reveal he is an agent, Muir tries to buy time while he tells the back-story of his relationship with Bishop and how he came to be where he was when captured.With average reviews all around this film I decided to not bother with it at the cinema and to wait for television to get it; almost four years later I finally got round to it and I must admit that I don't regret waiting that long. The first hour actually works pretty well despite being mostly very talky. It is interesting, slick, clever and quite fun to watch but it starts to fall apart at the halfway mark. At this point the back-story starts to become more important and less convincing at the same time, meanwhile Muir's clever manipulations start to become more and more outlandish and unlikely. This is a problem because a tight and enjoyable little espionage story becomes baggy and starts to lose the pace it had while also seeing the logic falling away at the same time. It is still OK but it became distinctly more and more average as it went on and settled into a rather unremarkable conclusion that could have been much better.The polished cast do reasonably well but not as well as the hype about the Redford/Pitt partnership would have you believe. Redford does well with his office based stuff even if he does look a bit old in his flashback scenes &#150; not a major problem of course, just an observation. He is confident and tricky and he makes for a good lead. Pitt is less able and struggles with some of the flashbacks while also being lumbered being a romantic subplot that, although key to the plot, just doesn't work. The support cast are all good although there are a few weak links in there (mostly down to the material they are given) but the film belongs to Redford on the whole and he does a pretty good job.Overall this is an OK film but nothing more than that. The potential shown at the start is never really fully realised and the second half starts to go downhill. Scott's direction is good throughout but he cannot keep the early pace and intrigue that the film had in the first half. It is still enjoyable but by the end of the film I was distinctly underwhelmed and could see why it had gotten so-so reviews when it was released in the cinema. "},{"Title":"An imperfect movie","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The movie has a very complex structure, with some flashback sequences that are very good but really do nothing to advance the plot of the movie. I ended up having to watch the movie again afterwards, skipping through the flashbacks to follow the plot more closely. Where the movie can spend twenty minutes on an incidental piece of background character history, important plot points are casually thrown out in single sentences. Perhaps the audience is expected to pick up these subtleties from the chaff - but I found it tiresome. There are other points which make the movie quite confusing. While its good to see British actors playing non-stereotyped roles in Hollywood movies, I was quite confused as to why so many CIA employees had London accents. In particular, at the beginning of the movie we see the very underrated actor David Hemmings talking in his Shakesperean British accent entering what is quite obviously LLoyd's of London; it took me sometime to understand that the character was an American in a building in Hong Kong. This strikes me as the equivalent of Clint Eastwood walking into the Empire State building pretending to be an Italian in Rome. Also, I couldn't understand why the movie was set in 1991 - why not make it present day? (Especially as no attempt was made to capture the period in fashion, technology etc). And its asking a bit much for us to believe that a military operation can be authorised simply by forging the signature of the DCI. The plot is thoughtful and interesting. However there needed to be much more character development and background (perhaps this rather than dwelling on the less-relevant set-piece flashbacks). For instance, it isn't immediately clear that Redford's character is trying to obstruct the CIA guys, and when it does become apparent, there is little explanation. This is especially odd as we are shown Redford in flashback as being a tow-the-line kind of agent, little more than professional respect for Pitt. I wish the movie had shown what made Redford want to take this course of action, why he felt the need to save Pitt. I really wanted to like this movie. In fact I think I would have preferred to read it as a Clancyesque novel. It has a very good premise, and there are outstanding performances by Redford and Pitt, while the supporting actors are all strong. The cinematography is also excellent, with innovative use of different framerate filming, angles, fast and slow motion, and some great use of locations. It seemed to me though, that this is prevented from being a polished movie by some rather amateurish errors in judgment. "},{"Title":"I don't believe it...","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Possible SpoilersI don't want to offend anyone, but there are alot of logical problems with this film to make it even impossible to watch. How the hell did they get Brad out of the Hong Kong prison? They totally disabled the whole electrical power of Hong Kong prison? This is the great minds of the American directing at work here. Having been living in Hong Kong for many years, now I can relate to those people complaining about American War films. They never research the place that they are going to film on. That is not the HK I knew, it must be some other country that they dreamt up and decided to put in the film. Why don't they use actual Hong Kong actors from HK? No, of course not. That would be too logical. They will of course use Asians that are from other countries that speak strange cantonese accent to play the part. And what do they show of the Hk prison? It looked like a third world corrupted country that can beat up anyone. I know that this is not supposed to be taken too seriously, but come on folks, this is alittle silly. It is also alittle insulting both to the viewers and also to other countries. We are not that stupid. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable nonsense","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Having been led to believe that 'Spy Game' was a film worth seeing I have to admit to being badly let down. Although the lead performers produced an average performance I found the rest of the film a complete disappointment.The plot was totally unbelievable and simply left the viewer with more questions than answers. Just to name a few items which beggared believe....'Beirut' looked suspiciously like 'somewhere in Florida or perhaps California', just how come a CIA operative became part of a medical team giving 'shots' to prisoners in a Chinese jail was never explained. There are a lot more points that I could pick up on but I cannot be bothered.The ending was predictable right from the moment that the 'operative' became a prisoner of the Chinese!In summary,if you are one of those who likes to sit and watch a film without thinking about it at all and accepting it as just a load of trivial nonsense, or perhaps have nothing better to do then this is the film for you. If on the other hand you are one who expects to get something other than unbelievable nonsense from a movie then you should defiantly look else where.Keith "}{"Title":"wake me up when it's over","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  a snooze fest, as far as I'm concerned.  Barely worth the price of the rental...but I was so glad I didn't pay at the theatre! Redford fans will admire his performance..even though all the clips back in time to Vietnam et al....never looks like either he nor Brad Pitt ever age much!  That could have been done alot better. "},{"Title":"Too cozy, too Redford","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If one wants to see a feel-good-movie, the presence of Robert Redford always is a guarantee. The plot here is rather clever, Redford is ironic, he's character is winning the game towards the CIA bosses, but the problem with this movie is that it is too much of 1985. This is an old-fashioned way of making a spy thriller.Brad Pitt has his limitations as always. Better playing, although mostly making a funny caricature, comes from Stephen Dillam. Anyway, there are better ways of spending two hours than seeing this film.    "},{"Title":"Just Plain Dull","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The problem with the movie was simply that it wasn't particularly exciting and had no other compensating qualities. The action scenes were nothing special and failed to draw the viewer into the situation. By the end of the movie I was so bored with the protagonists that I was rooting for the bad guys. "},{"Title":"Good thriller but lacked action.","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The spy game is a clever thriller that has some excellent dialogue and verbal sparring but for me , lacks the action that would have made this a great film. Brad Pitt and Robert Redford is as good a line up as you could hope for and neither make bad films but it is a shame that we dont see both in to many scenes together. If i had to pick the better of the two in this movie it would Redford. His battle , verbaly , with his superiors is the highlight of the film . It is a little far fetched too , especially the ending and without going into what happens , it is a bit of a cop out. All in all the film is very watchable and enjoyable but you come away with feeling that it lacks a certain something. 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"So much toil and complication to produce so little.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The best I can say about this movie is that it might be a good antidote for TV's Alias. In Spy Game the training, the setting up, the eventual execution of plans take forever.  Everyone, good guys and bad guys alike, looks painfully dubious about the effectiveness and/or the morality of actions contemplated.  After 30 seconds of this, each one just falls in line and does what he was considering in the first place.  There is so much mystery about who is on whose side and what the relations are, and for what? Some terrorist is almost accidentally blown up and the a couple of semi-competent agents have to be sprung from prison.  Everything in the movie points to Big Deal while the viewer keeps wondering who these people are, what are they doing that matters, and why should we care?I can't help compare this Redford movie with The Last Castle where scenes are so quietly underplayed as everyday occurrences but the issues of leadership, loyalty, and competence are brought out thoughtfully and forcefully.  "},{"Title":"About as entertaining as staring at an analog clock.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  (** Definite Spoiler Potential Below **) ****************************************I'm not exactly sure why this movie has achieved such a good rating.This film is slow, cliche and there are points that are so tediously dull that it makes me want to watch the McNeil Lehrer report as an alternative.However...The acting is top notch from Pitt.  Redford plays his generic character well (the top-o-the-food-chain guy that he played in his last ten movies). Redford is poker-faced, rough, and cares not about humanity.  His character is underdeveloped (perhaps we are just to assume we know the parts he plays by now) but he gets across what I believe is the point of this soon-to-be-retired CIA Agent.The story as a whole is moderately interesting but becomes quite ridiculous as you watch a CIA lifer constantly subvert his own organization, complete with forging documents and obtaining classified information, lying, and doing a lot of stupid things.  Don't get me wrong, I'm not against bucking the system but the problem with this idea is that Redford is obviously willing to kill others to accomplish a mission, or op, yet when the CIA has a motive to let Brad Pitt go Redford decides thats not right.  Seems not going with the character that was painfully created over almost two hours before anything interesting happened.This movie as a whole was not nearly as good as people made it out to be. Hopefully everyone will review this movie appropriately and bring it down to about a 5, which is what it deserves.  "},{"Title":"An average and overrated (spy) thriller","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The film began very promising but then I had to wait two long hours till something important happened. Director Tony Scott tried to create some action moments on international places but i think it didn´t work. The story between was boring and only the last five minutes this movie got really alive. Soundtrack and filmcolor was not the best. I gave only 5/10. "},{"Title":"One of the Top 10 Worst movies of my list","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was soooo horrible. When I went to see this movie on DVD at my girlfriend's house, I thought it was going to be a good movie loaded with lots of action, it was NOT.  The movie drags on for about an hour and 40 minutes. Even my girlfriend couldn't maintain her boredom and it became clear that she was bored when she exclaimed Where's the action?! It wasn't until the last 15-20 min. that there was action.  I did NOT even stick around to see the last two scenes. So for all of you people who like calm autobiographical movies, enjoy! If you're an ACTION guru like myself than this movie is NOT for you! "},{"Title":"Quite Interesting Spy Game!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game was okay action spy thriller. There were some scenes in the movie which I didn't like and I think shouldn't of been there full stop. If it wasn't for that I'm sure I would of enjoyed the movie much more. The two main performances from Brad Pitt and Robert Redford were both good enough though. All in all, quite a good movie, except for for the wrong scenes that I mentioned before. "},{"Title":"SPIES LIKE US","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPY GAMES (2001) *** Robert Redford, Brad Pitt, Catherine McCormack, Stephen Dillane, Larry Bryggman, Marianne Jean-Baptiste.   Excellent, intelligent and highly entertaining genre suspenser with Redford as an on the verge of retirement CIA spook whose loyalty to the agency is besetted when his sharp protégé Pitt finds himself in harm's way and has 24 hours to save his life or face the consequences.  Fast thinking screenplay by Michael Frost Beckner and David Arata keeps the kinetic storyline on track with staccato editing by Christian Wagner and Dan Mindel's gleaming cinematography adds key to the plot at hand.  Smartly directed by vet Tony Scott.   "}{"Title":"I'm giving this a 2 for the comedy factor alone.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A movie that makes 'Ronin' look good? I thought it wasn't possible! But again, we have a low budget production with too many familiar UK locations (the CIA HQ looked like a local Comp., the Chinese jail WAS actually an old prison in Yorkshire) and it was populated by British c-list actors ('Stephen' from Coronation Street, that chap from the Carlsberg ad and the mad guy from Banzai) with appalling American accents. The one decent Brit actor, Marianne Baptiste (from Mike Leigh's 'Secrets & Lies') was consigned to the role of wry-humoured secretary to Robert 'Bus pass' Redford.And how we laughed at the sub-Top-Gun script written, it would appear, by a committee of crazed Baywatch fans we need this like we need a third tit!, you must be f***ing crazy!, you're worried the lid's gonna come down with your hand in the cookie jar. The whole ruse of lining up a series of flashbacks (Nam sortie, Eastern Bloc escapade etc) against the countdown to Brad Pitt's final clash with a ketchup bottle was unbelievable, unengaging and cheap. Bob shuffled around with his zimmer frame whilst Brad looked mildly more animated & modelled various hairstyles & sunglasses from across the ages.We stayed to the bitter end and were rewarded with more cheese, cliches and some great shots of the Thames Valley and Guildford (?) multi-storey car park.The director is Tony Scott - Ridley's brother - but he sadly shares none of his financial clout, cinematographic eye or ear for good dialogue.Good for a laugh. "},{"Title":"The Spy who Loved Me,,,,,,,,,,,","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I have watched Spy Game twice now with a gap of six years between viewings. I felt that maybe i was a bit harsh first time around when the continuity errors really bugged me (as in erroneous dates, cellphones when they didn't exist etc). Having watched it again and even ignoring this carelessness, my core opinion has not changed - this is a turkey.Sorry but i missed to alleged tension and excitement that others somehow managed to glean from this. The Bishop character changes from a no questions asked baby faced assassin in Nam to becoming an idealist . Hardly the trait of an espionage operative. His initial training seems to consist of chatting up women on the street and blagging his way into an old codgers flat. When he is in the Berlin bar during the cold war he blurts out the fact that he and Muir are both spies. ooooooops,hope the KGB weren't listening.Once in the field our pretty boy ( come on he is just toooo pretty to convince as a spy) sees fit to drag Muir across an urban battlefield in Lebanon to get to a restaurant to snoop on a terrorist leader. Surely there was a safer route. Then when the suicide car bomb explodes he wanders moronically towards the burning building and the Islamic militia. A militia man then just shoos him away - very realistic - not.Apaert form the dreadful love story between Pitt and the human rights activist there is a lot of on screen Puppy Love between Pitt and Redford. In fact Redford gives Pitt a lesson in acting and Pitt seems gormless in his scenes with Redford . May have seemed like a good idea at the time but Pitt is totally miscast here and gives one of his worst performances running The Devils Own close.The very essence of this travesty is a love story and the message that friendship is paramount, not orders. Sorry did't i hear the word assets mentioned a dozen times.Watch instead the based on a true story movie Farewell to observe how dirty the spy game really is to see the fate suffered by an idealist spy and his idealist handler. There are no Hollywood endings. "},{"Title":"Why was this movie made at all???","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Brad Pitt gets captured by the Chinese, and handler Robert Redford has to fight internal CIA politics to get him free before he retires - in 24 hours. So far so good. But to stretch the running time, we get flashback after flashback about how their relationship started and what caused it to go sour, which totally undercuts the tension (such as it is). Moreover, there are several ridiculous plot developments which drag the movie down. In the end it's an extremely simplistic story  friendship is stronger than 'the rules' and self-interest. So much ado about very little, and moreover the film is told in a fairly confusing way, making it seem more complex than it really is. Redford is good, Pitt blah as always. I really don't understand why this script was chosen for being made, because it just doesn't have anything which I would consider appealing - except the two leads.   "},{"Title":"Lame Game","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spy Game may be labeled as a thriller, but it's really a drama/love story. Brad Pitt plays a spy who ends up in a Chinese prison facing execution in 24 hours, so it's up to his mentor, it's-my-last-day-at-work Redford to try and get him out. This is done sitting in an office reminiscing on past events for the entire length of the film.The focus of the film is not on spy training or even spy business,rather it's a film about Pitt's doubt as to whether or not what he's doing is right. How much fun is that to watch? Well, it isn't. It's pretty damn boring. I'm not a huge fan of flashbacks, and considering that this film is essentially one long flashback, it's really hard to like.Tony Scott tries to hide the fact that almost nothing happens over two very long hours with an array of helicopter shots, fast editing, and bombastic music. It may look exciting, but it isn't.Then there's the many illogical (or more like really stupid) plot holes that raises a lot of questions The film takes place over several years, yet nobody seems to grow any older/younger. If you're a spy, is it such a good idea to be talking about your job in public, all the time? How come that everyone at the CIA are morons? Does Robert My face is looking suspiciously tight Redford's spy training only include sneaking a peek at top secret papers (he does it at least three times)? Why did the script have to be of the kind where problems are solved by constantly using suspension of disbelief, (Hmm, I could really use a satellite photo of a shoreline looking exactly like the one I want to steal... But wait, I just happen to have one lying here in my desk, next to the money I just happen to need to bribe some Chinese guys to cut the electricity on a couple of islands, so that our choppers can fly in and raid a prison.).The ending also feels weird. The entire film establishes Redford as a smirking heartless assassin, who in the end is celebrated (with a choir singing on the soundtrack) for getting his not quite so ruthless protégé out of prison. Of course, he also made sure that Brad's terrorist girlfriend got out after a couple of years in prison, which was the right thing to do, considering that he put her there in the first place.On the whole, Spy Game may look like a critique of the dirty work the CIA does, but scrape on the surface, and you'll find that they really justify and glorify their actions. In other words, it's the same kind of propaganda as always. On the plus side though, it's not quite as awful as The Recruit. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Formula","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Utterly nothing new or surprising here.  Redford & Pitt and director Tony Scott sleepwalk their way through a completely standard action flick that includes standard cutesy dialogue between the two leads, routine explosions, the star outwitting everyone, and a one in a million shot ending.  Redford has a few good lines as the lead, but it just annoys me when these government agency-based movies portray EVERYONE in said agency as cold, heartless idiots and the star as the one character with the heart of gold, and is constantly able to outwit AND (this is most important) get the last and most clever one-liner in.  The romance Pitt is in is throughly unconvincing as well.  There is nothing horribly offensive here, but you've seen it too many times already. "},{"Title":"In the CIA, your word is clearly not your 'Bond'","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a 'guy' movie, definitely. And what makes a guy movie? Any movie where the hero has to call in 'air support' and there's a gratuitous fly by of an aircraft carrier, is a guy movie. Actually, these are elements of an American Guy movie, which slick-brit director Tony Scott is a past master at. Spy Game is so nauseatingly superficial at times, especially Scott's keeness to use digital effects, 'money' shots and camera techniques that went out of fashion on MTV a decade ago. There is one ludicrous seen where Redford and Pitt have coffee on the roof of a Berlin office building for no other reason it appears than to let Tony Scott lens it from a circling helicopter which produces such dizziness as to distract you entirely from the script. Actually, any distraction from the script is good, we like that, because the script and plot is along the lines of 'We are the Good Guys, but sometimes that requires us being Bad, so maybe we're not the good Guys'. This sees Pitt responsible for the deaths of several apparently innocent individuals, and Redford fighting at the cusp of retirement from the connivance of his CIA colleagues as they seek to hang him and Pitt out to dry. In reality, Spy Game is no less risible, vacuous or entertaining (though slower) than your average Bond movie. But it's the pretensions to some kind of moral and intellectual weight that annow, rather than just revelling in Kiss Kiss Bang Bang. "},{"Title":"Bottom line VERY VERY BORING","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was boring. It played out well, but it was hardly a spy film. I was expecting it to be full of espionage and action, but it wasnt. Brad Pitt is a young CIA spy who is kidnapped at the beginning of the film during a spy mission in China, and his longtime boss Robert Redford has 24 hours to save him before he is executed in the Chinese prison. The whole film, Redford sits in an office and nearly every scene in the film is a flashback, detailing how Pitt and Redford met and some of the very dull missions that Pitt went on. There was no spying in the film, so I do not know why it was titled Spy Game. Pitt is a spy, but he doesnt really act like one. There is not a single scene of action throughout the film, so if you want to see an action movie, rent something else. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"Never really starts!!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie should be interesting, when you consider the leads are played by such great actors as Redford and Pitt, but the result is rather disappointing and quite tedious.CIA-agent Pitt is captured during some rescue attempt mission in China in the opening scene of the film and you expect the remainder of the movie to be focused on his old mentor Redford trying to get him out of this capture. However, what you get is a very long series of flashback episodes featuring Pitt and Redford's previous experiences ranging from Vietnam to Berlin, combined with CIA-meetings, where Redford tries to rescue his protege from being sacrificed as a victim of international politics. The rescue mission itself lasts about 45 seconds and is completely devoid of any action of interest. So the film to me, never really kicks off. You have to be on some seriously strong stimulants, not to fall asleep during the Beirut scenes.The movie is in other words like a long flashback episode, which never really reaches a climax.  "},{"Title":"So Boring!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie with my boyfriend at the dollar movie theater. I didn't want to see it, and didn't think it would be very good.  It turns out that.. it was way worse than I thought it would be.  I was so bored watching whatever was going on with the plot (I can't even remember that's how boring it was) that I was longing to go out in the lobby and balance my checkbook, but I was hoping maybe it would get better.  It didn't though, it just made me want to go to sleep.  I mean, maybe some people would enjoy watching a bunch of old white guys sitting around a conference room arguing for two hours, but I am not one of them.  One of the worst movies I have ever seen. Redford and Pitt should have known better. "},{"Title":"schlock game","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  if only the word 'camp' were solely synonymous with a good time in the outdoors rather than as an apt description for this schlock!  this played out much like new year's eve . . . it's all great fun until the end - when the film ended in a vicious hangover of cliche.  the farther it went along, the further it drifted from any grasp of reality.  and what was the girlfriend doing in a male prison, anyhow?  gimme a break!  my only consolation is that it was '3 for 2' night at blockbuster, and one of our choices was 'gosford park'.  never thought id admit this, being the patriot that i am, but when it comes to film-making the british have it all over us. . . opening, body and closure.  perhaps this importance of a good end should be hammered home to american film students, they certainly could use it.   "}{"Title":"zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ok i'll give credit where it's due. OCCASIONALLY Redford gives us a film not only intelligent but also (gasp) ENTERTAINING.  This, however, is not such a film. Sneakers (which was wrongfully ignored), Butch Cassidy, the Sting, The Electric Horseman, and The Last Castle are among his entertaining yet still quality films. Although this film may depict the real-life goings on of the spy world, for those of us who, since 1962, have been treated to a very different type of spy, and this bye the way covers most if not all of the moviegoing public, when we see spy we expect a solid story yes, but with action and intrigue. This film, for the most part, had all the event and suspense of a Bill Clinton speech. BLECHH! "},{"Title":"Slick but boring","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  *Contains some minor spoilers*I saw this movie last night on pay-per-view satellite TV. I paid £3.50 (US$5) for it but fell asleep towards the end, as it was just rather boring.Spy Game is slick and fairly well made; the performances (particularly Redford's) are good, but the general lack of a sense of direction in the film make it rather hard to watch. The premise of the film is expressed rather too subtly, in my opinion. It's clear that Pitt's character is acting covertly and attempting to rescue someone in the movie's opening sequence, but from then on I found myself asking questions of what exactly was going on in the film.There is some interesting camerawork in the film, showing Beirut rooftops and Hong Kong skyscrapers in a mix of slow and fast-motion, and while this all looks nice its hard to take it as anything more than eye candy.The relationship between Pitt and Redford in the flashback scenes develops OK, but Pitt's love interest (on which the entire plot of the film rests) is so utterly underdeveloped that its almost impossible to understand how his character would get himself in such a pickle over the girl in question.Although I don't like to get bogged down in the technicalities of a plot, make-up etc, in this instance, I really must. For starters, we see Pitt being contacted by Redford in 1975, when Pitt is a sniper fighting in Vietnam. The main plot is set in 1991, some 16 years later. While I'm aware that no film maker can reverse the aging process, I don't think it's too much to ask for some decent make up and hair work to at least help the illusion along. Redford's hair never changes in style or color throughout the movie (apart from some little sideburns at one point), and Pitt is far too young to be playing someone old enough to have been a trained sharp shooter some 16 years earlier. Little nags like these (I had a similar problem with Red Dragon) make suspension of disbelief all the more difficult.All in all this movie is slick and subtle (often too subtle). The acting is good, the direction mediocre. The settings are recreated excellently and theres none of the over-the-top, hard-to-believe bull**** thats all too familiar in Hollywood spy-based movies. That said, Spy Game is really just rather boring, nothing really happens for almost an hour, and the make up and hair team could have at least turned up for work for the flashback scenes.Overall, worth seeing if you really like spy movies, otherwise, you're not missing anything special.5.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Bad...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There is very little redemptive value to this movie. The music is pretty good - that's about it. The acting is so-so. The story is probably fine as a book. I am usually a fairly forgiving movie viewer with regard to anachronisms and factual errors, but this one is just inexplicable. Why in the world does Brad Pitt and Robert Redford look exactly the same in 1975 as they do in 1991 (with the exception of some pasted-on sideburns)? I'll tell you why, because even with all of the magic Hollyweird can conjure up, they still can't make Robert Redford *not* look like he is 65 and Brad Pitt *not* look like he's 30-something. I just could not get past this, and found myself dwelling on make-up, anachronisms and other errors throughout the movie - it ruined it for me. Don't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"Boring. Extremely boring.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not going to say that Spy Game is the worst movie I've ever seen, but it's without doubt the most boring one. Very little action, no suspense, no drama and bad acting from Robert Redford. His younger co-actor Brad Pitt doesn't have to act great to be 100 times better than the (too) old Robert Redford. Please, do yourself and other movie-fanatics a pleasure and put another film-box in front of this one. This one is pure waste of time. "},{"Title":"An intelligent movie ?","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very strong play by Robert Redford, in his way as an rebelling intelligence recruiter, protecting his protege, Brad Pitt. However the highlight is to much on Brad Pitt. It's the way how Redford tells the story, which keeps you watching this movie. How he deceives his commanding officers and tells lies, while he feels the warm breath of capture in his neck. In conclusion Robert Redford makes the movie, but still it isn't a movie worthwhile watching. Therefore the spotlights are to much aimed at Brad Pitt. "},{"Title":"Excruciating Viewing","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  'Spy Game' left a rather bitter and confused taste in my mouth after its viewing, as I had no idea what the film was attempting to do. Were we to feel a sanitised comradery for Brad Pitt's distant character Tom Bishop? Were we to chuckle inwardly at Nathan Muir's (played by Robert Redford) 'ingenious' attempts to thwart his CIA superiors? Or were we simply supposed to be glad that we endured this film in air-conditioned comfort? Though the plot generally was able to drag itself above the unoriginal 'thrillers' that have been bombarding cinema-goers, it tried too hard. In its desperation, the annoying sub-plots, over used sub-plots, and bland characters just left me thinking, Why o why didn't Robert Redford moisturise?! Try harder...Rating 4/10   "},{"Title":"Spy GAmes like Reindeer games?","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think that if I would've stayed home and watch the Island of Misfit Toys, I would've had more fun than watching this yawn inducing C.I.A. infested SPEYE movie. First off, what the hell are all those damn flashbacks, flash fowards, and flashsideways all about. So the dude gets put in prison, GET HIM OUT ALREADY!!! And what's up with this island thing he did the switcharo with??? It was like, Hey, we pulled off something cool. NO, you're lame. Go see this movie if ya like to take dumps.(Note I did not really like this movie that much.) "},{"Title":"Out of Focus","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was relieved to see that this was not another patriotic ode to America as both the title and the plot may indicate. Sure, we are supposed to care about the story simply because there is an American (Pitt) sitting in an Asian prison, but instead of seeing the whole army going out of its way to get him out, the story is about Redford's character trying to con the CIA who is reluctant to save him. I'm glad the filmmakers took a slightly different approach than the obvious one, but unfortunately that is not enough.Now, we start off with Pitt in prison and we are led to believe that the film will be of the Great Escape kind. But no, from then on and almost until the end of the film we are mostly fed flashbacks portraying Pitt's and Redford's past. In my point of view the film forgets about the story for almost two hours, and picks it up again just to wrap it up the last 20 minutes. The focus of the story is completely misplaced. Another bad side of this flashback technique is that the time span is 25 years. Both Pitt and Redford look exactly the same throughout this time span. I'm sorry, but that is not as easy to ignore as it was when the actors in Schindler's List were speaking English. Tony Scott has made a stylish film, but he spends too much energy on the technical aspects. The colors are very cold and this distances the viewer.Redford and Pitt are both good and they save the movie from being completely uninteresting. I can't see why Redford's character had to be an agent just about to retire though. I wonder why every screenwriter seems to believe that all agents are about to retire.The ending of the film is good, and actually quite moving, but oh so late...Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Ponderous attempt at an intelligent spy thriller","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tony Scott's attempt to make an intelligent espionage thriller in the Le Carre mould comes off as turgid and ponderous. Creditable performances from Redford and Pitt are largely overwhelmed by stylised directing that detracts from, rather than enhancing, the storyline. Scott should stick to what he does best - big dumb action thrillers - and leave the MTV jumpshots and freeze frames to those who know how to use them effectively. "},{"Title":"ZZzzzzzzZzzz","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  okay so the beginning was pretty exciting when Tom Bishop (Brad Pitt) had to rescue the girl in a Chinese Prison but after Brad Pitt gets caught for espionage the story changes, It focuses more on the past of Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) and Tom Bishop on how they met, how he trained him and stuff and when they arent reliving the past they would be just keep talking and talking in the meeting questioning Nathan Muir which was soo boring. This movie talks way too much and moves really really slow, i couldn't wait until the movie was over. I saw people leaving the theater which i also kind of wanted to do at one point but i gave this movie a shot but man the ending is not worth it at all. I was more interested on what was happening to Brad Pitt in the prison instead of his past life and all this talking in the Meeting room.okay so the action scenes were realistic, if they didnt have them then we would all think this movie stink but they did do a good job of making this movie seem real but the story was boring.last note, the part where the asians were watching Baywatch was lame. Nobody even laughed at that scene either because they also thought it was lame but the movie made us soo tired we couldn't even laugh.5/10 "}{"Title":"A game you can count me out of..","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPY GAME C-SPY GAME is a confusing and busy movie. It can be said that this is a smart persons movie, but the fact is it is actually just a simple formula that wants to be confusing, thus it can surprise or stun its audience with a simple conclusion. It will just have people who completely understand the movie or people who just scratch their heads.The movie is about a soon-to-be retired CIA agent named Nathan Muir (Robert Redford). It chooses this route so that is complicates things for Nathan.Brad Pitt stars as Tom Bishop, a man who has been arrested in Hong Kong for espionage and will be put to death in 24 hours. Giving Muir a time limit also complicates things. In fact, the movie is so busy complicating things it forgets to entertain and thrill us. Muir spends half the movie sitting in a room talking to the board of directors and the other half in flashbacks with Bishop. Muir tell the board about how he and Bishop used to talk and how Muir trained him. We see different meeting and things between the two men. We see things from different missions and wars. We flash back and forth about ninety times and get lost in what story is what and what Muir is even talking about.The main problem is the movie has way too many cuts back and forth. It needs to stay simple and just do one thing at a time. It gets really busy as the movie progresses. The board of directors at first seem to care about Bishop, then just don't. It's never clear what side they're on. And really, we didn't even need to see any of the stuff with the board. The movie is about how he tries to free Bishop, but it never really gets to that until the last twenty minutes.It could have been a better movie. Instead of doing it in flashbacks, why not just start from the beginning? The first half hour or say forty-five minutes could have been about Bishop's training and what not. Then, have the rest of the movie be a race-against-time thriller where Muir works endlessly to free Bishop. That may sound formulaic, but at least it would be entertaining. But, no. They chose the boring way out.And another thing. The cinematography and camera work was really annoying. The camera zooms and zangs around while we are trying to see what's going on. This only works in one scene where Bishop and Muir are on a roof having a discussion. Also, the background music changes constantly. It's like the music coordinators just picked sounds at random and put them in. The vocalizing got on my nerves so badly. Then there's the wiz-tech music that just seemed out of place.SPY GAME has the feel of a better movie, but just sticks to the boring, confusing, annoying, and tiresome script that we've seen just way too many times.  "},{"Title":"An exercise in style over substance","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game is a movie that takes a roundabout way to get to the point.  The story is simple  Robert Redford, on the day before retiring from the CIA, must try to save Brad Pitt, his protégé, from being executed for espionage by the Chinese authorities.  Redford has 24 hours to talk and connive his way around senior CIA officials who are willing to sacrifice Pitt for the good of trade talks.  The film is mostly told in flashbacks.  We see flashbacks of Redford convincing Pitt to join the CIA.  We see Pitt on his first assignment.  We see Pitt on the assignment that lead to this incident. In between, we see Redford in an intense meeting with the clock ticking. Not all of what we're seeing is related to the story at hand, but, like a trail, it's testimony to the relationship between Redford and Pitt and Pitt's own work ethic (if you can use the word `ethic' when referring to the CIA).  For that reason, you sometimes wish they'd just get on with it. Remember, though, we are entering the Christmas season where movies are all about length and `character development' because the Academy likes both.Redford does a marvelous job.  You get the sense that his character is reveling in this final challenge the day before retiring.  He conducts himself with a surefire cockiness and a knowing smirk that gives him the upper hand.  You sense he is going to miss the business a great deal. Pitt, on the other hand, does his darnedest.  It just isn't always enough.  As an actor, he lacks the intensity of peers like Sean Penn or Edward Norton.  He just can't find the right note like he did so brilliantly in Fight Club, a role much more suited to his surfer-dude-cum-actor demeanor.  Pitt even sabotages one scene by turning to the camera and making a silly, bored face.Orchestrating all of this is director Tony (Top Gun, Enemy of the State) Scott.  And I use the word orchestrating literally.  Scott uses gels and color lens filters quite liberally to create mood and ambience.  He employs snazzy camera movements and freeze-frames that are reminiscent of the &#145;60s cinema.  Scott stages violence like other directors would stage a Wagnerian opera.  The shot of a hotel in Beirut exploding is stunning.  The camera slows down just a little to give you the full effect of the destruction while the music swells over the sound of the explosion.Sometimes movies are exercises in style over substance and Spy Game is just such a movie.  See it for the artistry of Redford's performance and Scott's direction.  As for the substance, you'll be disappointed that all of these characters and resources were used for an absolutely frivolous mission.  "},{"Title":"Why there isn't one single American movie that shows the world a real china??","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Why there isn't one single American movie that shows the world a real china?? As a Chinese, every time my country was on the Hollywood's big screen, I would have a really hard time recognizing it. The same thing happens in this spy movie. It's very funny that the 1991's china looks no different from the China in 1941 - poor old-fashioned clothes, corrupt officials who like to watch bikini-clad women, prison with almost no guard.... I think there is a gap between the real china and the china in Americans' imaginations, which is expanded by Hollywood movies like Spy Game and many other movies. In Mission Impossible 3, the local Chinese people still wear Chinese tunic suit which only appeared 30 years ago in Chinese history. I don't know if other countries' images have also been wrenched. However, I sincerely hope that Hollywood filmmakers could do more research before they show American people what other countries are like. In this way, not only can we enjoy a fascinating story but also learn more about the fact. Isn't that good for everyone? "},{"Title":"Needs a Deighton or leCarre","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Robert Redford plays George Smiley could have been the title for this film had it been given a better script. But with Redford in the lead, we know he has to be cool and superior to the dummies around him, and as soon as you read the cast list on the box of the DVD you know we are in for a happy ending, and one without the complexities that the two wonderful British spy novelist in my title give to their works.Brad Pitt, who seems to specialize in long, long films like this and Joe Black, is believable as the hot shot wonder-boy, but who's going to believe this hunk can be running around mid-eighties Beirut, looking no older than he did in 1975, and not draw attention. What he plays is ET, or Jeff Bridges' character from Starman....an alien who needs to be protected from the bad scientists at the CIA. Of course, they are not scientists but rather desk men protecting their fief, but the principle is the same.The old method was to put characters in cars and have them drive fast to keep an action plot moving; today directors ramp up the music, and use quick cuts to try to keep our interest. Sometimes this works; here it doesn't because every so often, the scriptwriters have to launch into a 'what's it all about, Alfie?' discussion between Redford and Pitt. In Martin Ritt's Spy from the Cold, the dirty business is not revealed until nearly the end, and with what heartbreaking force that revelation comes. Here Leamas and girlfriend survive....and like ET, get to go home. "},{"Title":"This Condor Won't Fly","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When Brad Pitt recently said I am completely bored with myself in films. you get the feeling he must've meant this one in particular. The direction is slow and plodding, the story is both dull and ludicrous at the same time, and the filmmakers are sloppy with the details. They don't pay attention to them and they hope you won't either.The film begins with it being the last day of work for the old pro (Robert Redford)at the CIA. He learns that an agent and good friend (Brad Pitt) that he personally recruited and trained, has been captured by the Chicoms and is scheduled to be executed in 24 hours. Of course, the CIA disavows any knowledge of Pitt and is willing to let him go down, so it is up to Redford to try and find a way to save his friend.The picture is far less interesting than this might sound. Told in a series of dull flashbacks from 1991, the filmmakers believe a little soft focus is all it needs to turn Robert Redford's increasingly craggy features from a man of  63 to a man of 47 again, and Brad Pitt from a man of 32 to one of 16? Wait, that can't be right. I guess he must be playing 36, so he was 20 in the flashbacks. Okay, but none of that explains how he manages to wear the blue baseball cap of the San Diego Padres in Beirut in 1985 while the Padres wore brown caps at the time. The blue caps were not introduced until 1994. But no matter. That is just a small example of the filmmaker's' aversion to getting the details right.A much larger example comes when Redford is questioned by his superiors about Pitt in a secure room where everything said is taped and transcribed. However, Redford successfully gets around this by talking on the phone! All this security and the phones are not monitored? Please. I have better security. Anyway, I think you get the idea. It's really too bad, because both Redford and Pitt are muy macho and good actors to boot. It's too bad they picked such a forgettable project to team together in. There's not even any good hotties to distract one from this slow motion machine.If Brad wants to stop boring people with his films, I would advise him to look for better scripts. For Bobby Redford, I would advise him to talk to his old pal Paul Newman about allowing himself to play older characters. Newman has managed a nice transition from hunky leading man to older leading man, and it is a transition Redford is overdue for.Finally, I advise you to skip this movie entirely and go rent Three Days of the Condor, an infinitely better Robert Redford-CIA movie he made in 1975, ironically the same year this movie has him training Pitt to be a CIA operative in Vietnam.  In that movie, Redford is a CIA agent code named Condor who becomes a man on the run when he returns to his New York decoding office after lunch and finds everyone has been murdered. It costars John Houseman, Faye Dunaway Cliff Robertson and Max Von Sydow. It is one of Senor Sock's favorite movies ever that does not star Denise Richards. SenorSock go.to/senor_sock "},{"Title":"Alright espionage thriller","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"   STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal  Instead*Avoid At All Costs Having already directed him in the 1992 flick A River Runs Through It,aging leading man Robert Redford stars alongside Brad Pitt in Tony Scott's new action thriller.It has poor character development,not the most structured or engaging of story's and it does have long,boring parts.However,there's a very nice frenetical,fast-paced feel in parts which makes it worth watching.*** "},{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was boring and ran way too long.  And what's with the cheesy techno music throughout the entire film?  I like both these actors, but certainly not in this movie.  The movie runs over 2 hours at which point my friends and I were struggling to stay awake.  The movie is predictable and Robert Redford has just gotten too old.  By the way did I mention the constant techno music in the background? Cause it sucks. "},{"Title":"long and boring","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It was way too long, made no sense, had no interesting characters, and was visually unappealing (all colors were washed out, as if the film had been shot with a filter on the whole time, or in duotone). Other than that it was okay. "},{"Title":"Boring & Not What I Expected","Date":"10 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I was pretty disappointed with buying this movie. Boring for the most part.The description on the back sounds better than what really happens. Most of the movie is about Nathan Muir (Robert Redford) talking about Tom Bishop (Brad Pit) in their past, to other members of the CIA he works with.Tom is captured in a Cheese prison while trying to save a woman he used to love. His ex boss Nathan tries to figure out how to get him out before Tom's execution in 24 hours.How the rescue of Tom turns out seems too easy. The way it happened seemed too quick and didn't have anyone after them. It doesn't show what happens when the Cheese realize Tom is gone.Had the movie not been mostly flashbacks of the past and been about people trying to get Tom out in a rescue mission, I would have enjoyed it.None of the people Nathan discussed his past with Tom to didn't do anything to help him. It helped explain Tom's job and the relationship with Nathan, but other than that, it is pointless. "},{"Title":"Some decent material, directed with pretentious stupidity","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game looks as though it could have been directed by Tony Scott's brother Ridley.  That wasn't a compliment.There IS the kernel of a good movie here  - we see it when Nathan is training Tom in the ways of spycraft, handing out snap tests (find out something about that woman walking a dog; bluff your way onto one of the balconies of that building within five minutes), telling us secrets about what spies do that are so intriguing it doesn't matter if they're true or false.  If Scott can't see that THIS material is gold, while everything else he has to work with is lead with the occasional streak of silver or iron, there's no hope for him.But in order for any of this material to shine, we have to be able to SEE it - and all we could see were pretentious, arty gimmicks, thrown together with no sense of rhythm or style.  They're not even GOOD pretentious, arty gimmicks.  Here's what passes for flair in a Scott film when we're told that the Chinese plan to execute Tom in just 24 hours, Robert Redford is frozen as a black and white photo with the legend 802pm printed underneath; this gesture, like most gestures, is accompanied by the metallic whoosh of a steel tub brushing the side of a wind tunnel, JUST IN CASE WE MISSED THE POINT.  Throughout the day we see more such photos of Redford with similar legends 230pm, 1134pm, or whatever; one of these photo legends even has in brackets beneath it execution at 800am - JUST IN CASE WE'D MISSED THE POINT.  The camera sweeps in when it should stay still,flies through the sky in fast motion when it has nothing better to do, zooms in on the trivial, and from start to finish the film is the wearying sequence of cut! cut! cut! that's the first sign of poverty of imagination on at least SOMEONE'S part.  Scott can cut all he wants; it won't disguise that none of his footage and none of his gimmickry has any life.  (Some directors can take equally vapid stuff and give it a soul.)  He has no ear for music, either.  The score is unspeakably dreadful.It's the kind of film which starts out looking a little bit lame and within a mere five, or three, or even just two years, looks crashingly, obviously, ludicrously lame. "}{"Title":"Drivel, drivel, drivel","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I did not like this movie. It was the WORST Robert Redford movie I've seen - and, as if that wasn't enough, the WORST Brad Pitt movie I've seen too.I won't bother describing the plot - something about rescuing a rogue CIA agent (Pitt) from a Chinese jail - suffice to say, it was pretty non-existent.  And, even worse, all told in cutaways and flashbacks, with an overdose of pointless helicopters, explosions and seen-it-all-before rip-offs of half decent war and spy movies.I suppose there could have been some tension building as to whether Pitt would get rescued - but there was none. It was obvious from about 5 minutes in that Pitt would be the subject of a rescue attempt, and the movie might have been watchable if we'd been unsure (or even cared) whether this would succeed - but hey! All I cared about was that the tedious and VERY LOUD soundtrack kept waking me up!! I kid you not - despite the continual noise I managed to sleep through most of it.Total rubbish. Thank God I didn't pay good money to see it! "},{"Title":"never mind the flashback can I have my cashback!","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There was a good film here struggling to get out but unfortunately it wasn't allowed to. When you spend most of the film trying to work out how old Redford is suppose to be and how old he really is and thinking when he's suppose to be 16 years younger that he does actually look a lot younger you know somethings wrong! Tony Scott has made some damn fine action movies but here he's badly misjudged things with excessively bombastic direction and tiresome uninvolving flashbacks that take up most of the film's two hours. There's one point about an hour in when things start to get interesting as Redford tries to fool the CIA but this lasts just a few minutes and then we're back to flashbacks. The only thing that keeps you watching is Redford who's still as charismatic as ever. (5/10)  "},{"Title":"Bad year for Redford","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spy Game was Redford's second bomb in 2001, the first being the completely unwatchable Last Castle.  Judging from Redford's performance in both these films it really might be time for him to concentrate full time on directing.  Really, this is an awful, awful film -- the kind that makes you grab anyone who liked it and shake them until they get some sense.  The worst, among many, of ludicrous sequences is naturally the ending when the US essentially invade China, kill a bunch of Chinese soldiers and free a guy who -- let's face it -- had no business being there and was totally guilty.  And to think some folks on this board call this the thinking man's action film.  Uh-huh.   "},{"Title":"Flash and Glitz are not enough","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, I like spy and action movies as much as the next guy, but this movie was pretty bad.If you were to assemble a list of the top 100 Hollywood cliches, you could probably find 99 of them here. It goes on and on with improbable scenarios and that horribly annoying zip around fast forward scene change technique. Oh, and that cliche boy's choir soundtrack.Redford is way too old for the flashback scenarios. How about a little makeup for those? I doubt there were many 75 year old operatives in Vietnam.More plodding and inane plot devices twisted it from a potentially good story to an overdramatized tale of inept bungling. Maybe it's real... we hear a lot about the CIA bungling everything.All right, it's not a total write-off, but I'm pretty sure you could find better things to do with your time than watching this. "},{"Title":"A big disappointment from Toni Scott","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is well directed and well acted , i have to agree with all the people who say this. But the plot is not good at all. After having seen Enemy of the state and seing the trailer of this movie , i was really eager to see this one . I was very disappointed . The movie was plain boring , and for people who lived in Beyrouth during the war , they would tell you that this movie has a lot of flaws representing this war. All in all , a good movie for people who don't like to get into details and don't care about misrepresentation of a civil war... "},{"Title":"In a word BORING!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was not like the trailers/ TV ads for it.It is a long boring movie with Robert Redford and a bunch of men sitting around a table for most of the movie. There are too many flashbacks back to the past about Redford's and Pitt's relationship.Eventually I got up and refilled my soda becasue I was bored. Since this a mainstream movie, expect a typical mainstream ending. I predicted the ending of this movie at the halfway point. If this movie did not have so many flashbacks, maybe I would'nt of looked at my watch often during the movie. This movie is more of a heavy drama, rather than a thriller. The only action in the movie is in the beginning and end.Other than that, it's mostly men talking around a table interviewing Redford. If I fell asleep, I doubt I would of missed much in this movie!The trailers and ads are misleading! Not a thriller but a long BORING drama! So if you like BORING long movies, see this movie, Otherwise wait for this movie to hit the cheap movie theaters or DVD/videotape. "},{"Title":"BORRRRRRRING","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Puhleeze.  This movie is so boring I had to fast forward through the whole thing and give up in the end. Robert Redford is a fine actor, but the story is so pathetic it generates no interest.  CIA assasins are just not the heart-warming people they user to be. Don't waste your money on this drek.... "},{"Title":"When will Hollywood do its homework?","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film had such potential & the acting wasn't bad -- although I still yearn to see Redford extend his acting repertoire by playing a bad guy! The basic plot, involving a world-weary veteran spy going out on a limb for his protégé, may not be original but is still pretty sound and also filled with potential. However, the shameful number of errors (as listed on another part of this site) & the unbelievable ending (which would make John Wayne blush) all contribute to make this the sort of film that would help you to sleep on a long flight. It does have its moments, although its premise that the old CIA was some sort of 'Lone Ranger' is hard to swallow. (Note the oxymoron on the certificate of appreciation Redford gets from the Director acknowledging his 30 years of honorable service -- since when has the spy game been considered honorable, even by those whose career it is! To sum up, if 'Spy Kids' was too intellectually challenging for you, then maybe you'll enjoy this film. Otherwise, if your rental store has only 2 videos/DVDs, this & one showing paint dry, choose the paint!  "},{"Title":"The director obviously did not do his homework","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is full of errors; the director is either too lazy to do some research, or think viewers are too dumb to realize the error. The movie is set in 1991, but the cityscape in China is more like in 1919. The setting is said in city of Su Zhou, but guards in prison speak Cantonese, their uniform is also wrong. Su Zhou is an inland city, but the satellite claims to be Su Zhou shown a coastline. Finally, I guess a thirty years vet of CIA would know better than make such a move just before US president would visit China. "},{"Title":"Waste of time...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is the first comment I have written at IMDB, I just wanted to warn people to stay away from this movie... If you have ever seen Operation Condor or Sneakers, this movie is the combination of both, the plot is far from thrilling and the CIA characters that Redford's character is supposedly tricking are pathetic, it is so un-realistic and it really is hard to concentrate on this movie as you want to get up and do something else. All the little things Redford's character are supposedly doing to trick his fellow CIA people is really stupid, you really need to suspend belief to believe that people that stupid could join the CIA, for example the scene where he leaves his cigarettes in another room to distract someone so he can steal some satellite images and their are plenty of other things to complain about but I am sure others have and will say it better then me.  "}{"Title":"Bad boring and nothing new 2 hours!!!","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very good actors in a very bad movie which is everything but not entertaining, you think its a joke that they put such good actors in this movie, the business information tells us the film has to be bad it costs 92 million dollar and grosses 62 million dollars. The film lost about 50 percent gross in the second week if you relate it to the opening weekend. I was very sad, i saw the film in the sneak preview and almost the half of the audience seemed to sleep after 90 minutes. I think hollywood made too much of this genre! "}]