[{"Title":"Looking back at my pathetic teenage self...","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The other day, I was looking through some old boxes filled with old stuff of mine. In this box was my original NES, some games, and all of my Pokemon stuff. Including each of the films on VHS (well, the first three and Mewtwo Returns).I remember watching the movies when I was still a Pokemon passionate, and wanted to see if I could get that same rush still, four years later.Well, with the first two, no chance. The third one, Pokemon 3 The Movie, however, was different.Again, this review is coming from an 18 year old high school graduate. And even four years later, Pokemon 3 still delivered the thrills.Loaded with excellent animation, some tense battle scenes (Charizard vs. Entei, anyone?), and a heartwarming theme that children can embrace, I recommend Pokemon 3 to anyone who wishes to rediscover their childhood or for anyone who is just up for some great animation.9/10 "},{"Title":"Even the Pokemon-illiterate can enjoy this edge-of-your-seat adventure.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm at the point now where I can name the well-known Pokemon, but I still consider myself mostly Pokemon-illiterate.  I never much cared for the TV show, and I don't play video games anymore.  So why, you may ask, would I go to see the movies?  Well, I confess that I love seeing animation on the big screen.  I don't know if they spend more money or what, but animation to me almost always looks better on the big screen.  I loved the first movie, didn't like the second.  And now that I've seen the third, I gotta gay I love it, too.The Pikacu and Pichu short is, just like its two predecessors, merely a showcase for more Pokemon.  Didn't leave an impression.  The feature, however, is great.  Entei is now my second favorite character from these movies, second only to Mewtwo.  Like Mewtwo, Entei has a reason for doing what he does, even if it is misguided.  Also, he (again, like Mewtwo) is one of the reasons why you must experience this film in the best sound system possible, because his voice comes out of all the rear surround speakers.  Ralph Schuckett does another good job with the musical score, and the two songs I heard I LIKED.  I also liked the use of the little girl Molly and her imagination as the reason for the happenings, and the inclusion of Ash's mom, no doubt making this a more personal battle for Ash.  Oh yes, the animation is quite nice (best of the three), and the action rarely lets up once it starts!No doubt some will bash this simply because it is Pokemon, but all I can say is if you can get past Pikachu and Pichu, TRY giving it a chance--even if you know nothing about Pokemon, you might still enjoy it.  I sure did. "},{"Title":"Hey it's the best one yet (That might not be saying much for some)","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Seeing how many adults despise Pokemon, my comments might strike those as the ramblings of a social oddball. But so what?My child likes Pokemon and I happen to like the Pokemon show, it's not always great but it good to see a show that teaches kids to strive for a goal that is not reachable in half an hour. Name any other children's show where the characters take an entire season to reach a stated goal. In a funny way this show is more realistic then any other children's show on American TV. The program is very tolerant of people's differences and celebrates everyone's unique talents. And I like the different Pokemon creatures and my son and I enjoy playing the N64 Pokemon Stadium 2 game together. He really enjoys explaining the different Pokemon to me as we play. I have a friend who runs tours at a local science museum using the Pokemon as a way to get the kids into natural history and sciences. It really sparks some of the children into learning more.That said, the movies have been a different story. The first was a very dark movie and the second, although better, still had a strange apocalyptic undercurrent more typical of Japanese animation for older audiences. I missed the light hearted nature of the TV show. The new one is different, the story is more suited to young audiences and it's mostly more coherent to adults who are with the young ones. (Although the kids will have to explain some plot elements to you if you haven't kept up with the show.) The film also has a much better story than the first two. There is still quite a bit of large scale fighting at the end but it's not the end of the world stuff of the first films.Do I recommend the film to regular audiences? No, but I do suggest to parents that you don't make excuses to not take your child. This should not be the torture you may have experienced with the first two. "},{"Title":"Personal least favorite of the series; still great","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pokemon 3 was definitely entertaining. I will say it was not as good as I thought it was going to be, considering how the first two were insanely enjoyable kids movies, but if you liked them you are sure to like this one for the same reasons. This movie, was still, great like the others, and I enjoyed watching the newly introduced Pokemon and characters. To me, the humor could have been left without, as usual, the sad scenes, were not as tear-jerking like in Pokemon 4Ever and the first movie, and the action was watered down a bit than what it was in the first two. There was really nothing spectacular, but every Pokemon lover has to know that it doesn't take a masterpiece to entertain, because of course the Pokemon series aren't masterpieces, but they still deliver great entertainment. The plot to this movie was that the new legendary Pokemon, Entei, in this movie was able to speak with his mind. He was guarding over this girl Molly, for she believes he's her father. There's the Pokemon called the Unown, who are causing chaos all across this little town in the mean time. This movie's plot sounds so corny and stupid, but it's really not. This was a great film, and anybody who's fans of the first two feature length films or Pokemon in general absolutely needs to see the third and fourth installments. "},{"Title":"Pokemon 3, I choose you","Date":"3 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is definitely the best of the pokemon films. Unlike the previous movie which depended mostly on juvenile action, this one gives us strong imagery, emotion, and a better use of Pokemon to advance the plot. Even though like Pokemon 2000, this movie feels a bit short, I think the story works well enough. Even though the dialog is juvenile as one might expect, somehow it feels less hokey than Pokemon 2000. Just as it was in the previous two films, Team Rocket acts as a comic relief, by constantly making reference to the fact that they are in a movie. In a way, they have become good guys, but I think the filmmakers are a little confused about what to do with them. The rest of the movie works fine. No movie will ever be as good as the show but, the Pokemon spirit does manage to come alive here for an entertaining hour and a half. "},{"Title":"The best pokemon movie ever!","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being a fan of the pokemon TV show, I really wanted to see this movie, and it was worth it. It told the wonderful story of a girl named Molly, and how her mom was taken by the Unown(by the way, in the original version, her mother was institutionalized instead of taken by the Unown) Molly's father loved her dearly, and he (too,) was taken by the Unown, and when the Unown saw Molly miserable, they made all her dreams a reality. The whole landscape was turned into ice and her home was a castle. The Unown created the legendary Entei, who took the place of Molly's father. Ash, Team Rocket and everyone else tries to convince Molly her world isn't real and she needs to get back into the real world.I really adored how innocent Molly was and how her parents loved her. She is my favorite pokemon movie character. Entei was well done, and I liked his purple fire balls and the battle he had with Charizard. Great to see Charizard back, by the way! (It returned again when Ash was getting the Rising Badge from Clair in Master Quest, but that's another story) The computer animation with the Unown was nice as well. The crystal tower was good, and it was kind of reminds me of Emerald City from The Wizard Of Oz. We also see Molly become older, and the first anime/movie appearences of Kingdra, Teddihursa and Flaafy. (Watch the credits, and you'll see she got a real Teddihursa)Pikachu and Pichu was another good short, with LOTS of interesting pokemon and all-around cuteness. Pokemon The Movie was pretty bad with the 2nd and 4th movies better, and this WAY better. Go see it! You won't be sorry! A 9/10. "},{"Title":"Much better than you think!!","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'll admit it.  I'm 21 years old and I enjoy Pokemon.  With that aside, let me say that Pokemon 3 The Movie is actually one of the better films I've seen this year. As usual the short, this time entitled Pikachu and Pichu, is a throwaway.  Pikachu goes exploring the big city and meets up with the Pichu brothers (cute little Pokemon who resemble Pikachu).  Together they have a series of misadventures, mostly running from a large dog Pokemon named Hounddower.  This short serves only to introduce new Pokemon for the kids to get excited over.  What makes it worse is that the short's running time clocks in at a lengthy 22 minutes.  However, if you can survive that, you are in for a treat. The feature, entitled The Spell Of The Unown, begins with a young girl named Molly and her father reading a bedtime story.  We can see that the girl loves her father very much.  We soon learn that the father is a famous Pokemon researcher who is investigating the ancient Pokemon call Unown.  While escavating a temple, where the remains of the Unown were found, he mysteriously vanishes.When Molly learns about her fathers disappearance, she sinks into a deep depression feeling that she is truely alone (her Mother had also disappeared several years earlier).  Molly happens upon the remains of the Unown (which resemble letters of the alphabet) in her father's study.  She spells out the names Mama and Papa with the Unown and begins to cry.  The Unown come to life and give Molly the power to create her own dreamworld where she can have anything she wants.  She brings to life an ancient Pokemon called Entei to be her surrogate father and promptly begins to turn her house and the rest of the countryside into a magnificent crystal palace.  Enter Ash, Misty, Brock, Team Rocket, all those cute little Pokemon, and some old friends and you have the beginnings to a great movie. This movie has a lot going for it.  The animation is well done, the colors are exceptionally vibrant, and even the American added CGI effects look much better in this as compared to the first two movies.  The story line in Pokemon 3, which borrows liberally from Star Trek, Alice in Wonderland and The Neverending Story, has a much more dark tone than the first two and feels more like an actual movie rather than an extended episode of the TV series.  It deals with such adult oriented issues as loss, loneliness, and depression.  However, it is still perfectly suited for kids as there is no language and very minor cartoon violence. All in all Pokemon 3 is  a great movie to take your kids to, or just to take yourself to if your in the mood for a great action/fantasy anime movie.  I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"The Equal of the First Movie - Watch It!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Spell of the Unown excited me just as much as Mewtwo Strikes Back. It has everything. New powerful Pokemon in the form of Entei & Unown (Plus all the rest.), Team Rocket, Pikachu, Tears, Laughter, Dreams, Battles, Awesome Animation, Totodile, Charizard. You name it. It contained everything that makes Pokemon great. Weirdly Wonderful. All Pokemon fans will love it, young & old. (I'm 23.) 10/10   "},{"Title":"One of the best earlier Pokémon films.","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" In my opinion, Spell of the Unown (2000) is one of the best earlier Pokémon films. It is my favorite as a child and still is today because of its hidden power; it has the ability to captivate with its rich Pokémon mythology and to move our hearts with loving messages.Compared to the first two films, this film can standalone without the aid of other short films or sequels to enhance the story. The film does feel short though, so additional scenes and increment of total running time would be nice because the story moves a little too fast in the beginning, which may be confusing to those who are new to the Pokémon Universe. Thankfully, the whole movie turns out an interesting fantasy dream. The visually pleasing animation and beautiful imagination would appeal the majority especially dreamers. There are also more action than before, more variety of Pokémon and it is fun to watch. Ending this post, I must mention that I certainly loved the animated short Pikachu & Pichu that comes with Spell of the Unown (2000). Featuring the Pichu Brothers and plenty of other second generation Pokémon, it is super endearing and light-hearted! Their lively adventure makes the whole animated feature perfect! "},{"Title":"Not Too Shabby","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I myself am not that big of a Pokemon fan. And it's not because I'm like all the other people who say it's juvenile. In fact, I'm not entirely sure WHY I don't like Pokemon. It probably has something to do with me growing up with SpongeBob and Mario and preferring things like comedy and kart racers over anime and RPGs. But really, this film has a touching storyline.A little girl's father is taken by a group of Pokemon called the Unown. Feeling lonely, the Unown create an Entei to serve as her father. However, this does not make her completely happy, and her desire for joy winds up being a pain for the rest of the world.I can barely remember the movie, but I do remember loving it. Even if you despise Pokemon, you'll like it (maybe). It has a good moral and beautiful animation. If you like Pokemon, anime, or are just looking for a heartwarming tale, then this is the film for you. I give it 7 out of 10, with the other 3 points being tacked for the short length and cheesy lines. "}{"Title":"what is everyone's problem??","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" how can this movie only be rated 4 stars?? it's not anywhere near that bad. i think some people just rate it low because it's a pokemon movie and that's just stupid. personally i love this movie. it's my fav out of all the pokemon movies. i mean seriously, what's wrong with it?? it's much MUCH better than the diamond and pearl movies. the story to this movie is great. it has some pretty unique battles in it. especially the underwater battle. i think the music is great too. the only thing i think they could have changed was team rocket's part. they were barely even in the movie. it also has some decent bonus features. so.... to sum it up.... this movie is great. it has a good story, good music, good battles, and good pokemon. if you haven't seen it yet i highly suggest you at least try it out. ^^D "},{"Title":"This movie is certainly NOT stupid","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I liked this movie a lot, when I was younger. Now, as I am... not so young anymore, I am surprised that I still like it. But, I guess you must be a Pocket Monsters fan to like it. The original Japanese version is slightly different, but still, slightly. The first PokeMon movie was heavily edited for the American release, as was the second one. In case of the 3rd, you get pretty much the original thing. The movie has a great story, superb animation, and awesome soundtrack (as usual). The music was exclusively composed for the western release by Ralph Schtukett, and it really does the film great service. If only it was released on a CD... Oh, well, you can still hear it in the movie.Whether you are a PokeMon or Anime fan, you should definitely pick this one up. "},{"Title":"Deserves much better then a 4.0!!!","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" What an enjoyable film! I don't understand all the hate and backlash this has gotten. If you hate Pokémon, and your insist on down voting, go do it on 7 or 8, where everything is bright, cheery, linear, Hollywood garbage. This is beautiful.The story isn't complex, but it's much more layered then other animated films. The colors are beautiful, and the animation is very well done, with tastefully placed CG, but mostly wonderfully detailed classic animation. The story contains good lessons about faith and family. The battle scenes are long and epic. The style is so dark and artistic that it's simply a treat for the eyes.My only complaints come with some the dialog being a little cheesy, and that it's way to short. (The feature itself is only 70 min) With more time they could have gone more places and really developed the characters and story arcs more. But all in all, a wonderful film, defiantly among the best of the Pokemon series, and among my favorite anime films of all time. A must see for all young people, anime fans, Pokémon fans, and anyone with a general interest in animated film! 10/10 as far as Pokémon is concerned "},{"Title":"The movie Pokémon loathers will love","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If we have to chose the weirdest Pokémon movie for the big screen, this will be that movie. First of all, we must despite that non-intentional subversive message of zoophile status. What??? Yes, that message represented by the dog father and the human mother. Is not clear enough? Lord of unknown tower (I refuse to call it The spell of the unown) is a movie that, again, makes a critic to the Pokémon massive phenomenon. This time, the critic is for those children, trapped into the video game, that don't want to communicate with anybody else but with their own dreams. That annoying girl is just a victim of her own acts, and like a drug-addict makes everybody around her suffer the consequences of what she desires. If there is a movie that Pokémon loathers will love, it can be this one. Is just a movie that Pokémon lovers trapped by the phenomenon will hate, because it's a clear critic to them and their now ridicule admirers status. With this movie we receive another message, this time a RIP message. Pokemon is dead. The last amazing visual ideas are mixed with the school-boy-redaction screenplay, but the balance between well written plot and the visuals are so different that it really works. When the plot doesn't work, the visuals do the rest. So we have a hollow movie with a beautiful production design and a nightmare/dream look. "},{"Title":"The greatest in the saga even those beyond don't match it!","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is my favorite anime film which I was lucky to find at my local EB store. The reason its the best of them all is that it has more story and a bit less action (some may be too intense for youngsters). Consider it a mixture of The Matrix and The Neverending story (sorry no Matrix-style stunts however). Spoilers below.... Basically, A little girl named Molly is feeling lonely since her parents disappeared courtesy of the Unown. The Unown then try to help Molly out by creating a crystal fortress to bar her from the real world (Matrix anyone?) and create Entei to be her father. Entei kidnaps Ash's mother for her to be Molly's so now Ash must not only figure out how to rescue his mother and Molly, but figure out how to stop the Unown before the entire town of Greenfield turns into an icy Salvador Dali world. Charizard makes a return and in the end, he along with Pikachu and Entei help battle the Unown, to try and restore peace. The DVD is hard to find now these days so if you find one, if your a fan of anime or Pokémon buy it and watch it. It will be worth your time "},{"Title":"A vast improvement over the second pokemon movie, but still pales to the first....","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The second pokemon movie was terrible, and when I saw this one I thought it would be equally as bad - I am happy to say it is not! It is a very short movie, but that it used to its advantage, as it jumps straight into the action, with a plot that it similar to that of a childrens fairytale. It is straightforward and cliched, but you would expect that from a pokemon movie, and this is lighthearted entertainment, sure to please. "},{"Title":"Basicly, what happens is this...","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Basicly, what happens is this. This film is Pokemon 3, Spell of the Unown, and it's all about a little girl called Mii. (Mii is Molly in the english version). Mii's papa is a scientist, who tries to discover about the ledgendairy pokemon, like the annon. But then, he disapears. And Mii's mama disapered a few years before, so Mii is now all alone in the world. Then, she finds these little tablets from the ruins of alph, and spells out Mama and Papa. The annon the create Mii an alternitive Papa, just as she wished. Even though Mii's new papa is a pokemon, she is happy, until she looks at a photo, and askes her Papa to get her a mama. And as luck would have it, Satoshi and his mother are in the negbourhood...... I loved this film, and as usual, Team Rocket were hilarious, and there a deeper meaning to this film, but I'm not going to tell you what it is. You'll just have to watch the film yourself. The graphics are brilliant, and I think that little Mii is soooo sweet! I give this film a 10 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"A Warm Fuzzy adventure for kids... *Spoilers*","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It seems to me that most of the bashing for this movie so far is because of two reasons 1. The person hated Pokemon to begin with, or 2. The person looked at it expecting something entertaining for adults. Anyway, I saw this movie, and I found it entertaining. I found I could  sympathize with the character of Molly, as she has everything before her except happiness. Her only fault was she wanted to be happy, and for that the Unown grant her wish. Sadly, to make her happy, they had to make others unhappy. Molly simply wanted to have fun and have a place in this world. Unfortunately, the Unown create more psychic energy than they can control, which results in disaster. In the end the Unown retreat and leave everything as it was before... almost. I wouldn't recommend seeing this in theaters, but when the video comes out, it's worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Don't bash it just 'cause it's Pokemon","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to se this movie opening day, just like I went to see the second movie, only this this time I didn't take my nephew as a shield. Instead I went with two of my friends from college. That's right, I'm a 20 year old Pokemon fan... a true child of the 80's. Why watch Pokemon you ask? I'll tell you. It's a good show, and the movies are pretty darn good as well. It's become pretty in to bash Pokemon just because it's Pokemon. Instead look at it for what it is, a funny cartoon that beats out just about any cartoon America has produced in the last five years. Yeah, I grew up with GI Joe, Scooby Doo, the Smurfs, and all that... but nowadays... the crap they put on TV just plain sucks. And people wonder why Pokemon is doing so well???Now on to the movie... I started watching Pokemon with the first movie, and have seen all three so far. Pokemon 3 The Movie had some great animation, great battle scenes, and a lot humor to mix in as well.*mild spoilers for those who haven't seen the trailer* Pokemon 3 begins when a famous Archeaologist disappears, leaving his young daughter, Molly, all alone. A mysterious group of Pokemon called the Unown find their way to Molly and she accidently releases them. They tie themselves into her dreams and start to change reality into her dreams. They summon Entei, a lengendary Pokemon, to fill the place her father left, and when she asks for a momma as well, Entei kidnaps Ash's own mother! From the action builds, with battles and adventures galore, including a surprise return for those who follow the series. Team Rocket finds their way into the mix, mostly adding to the humor, as when James says, upon seeing the Unown, which looks a bunch of odd letters, I haven't seen this many strange letters since that time I placed a personal ad. *end spoilers*Pokemon 3 is a strong G.. but is sure to delight any children, and even the child inside you. Go see it and judge it for yourself. Take your kids, take your friends, take yourself! "},{"Title":"What??!!!!","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" How did this get a low score this movie was so good, the only reason it gets minus a point because its pokemon.This movie was so amazing. There is nothing better than a talking giant dog making a girl a god.There seriously isn't anything better.Ash can get annoying because of his stupid little voice but thats it. Even pikachu and pichu short was good. This one had a great plot, unlike the first. I watched this movie like 10 times when i was a kid. I suggest watching this and the second movie then the anime first series. Nothing besides that.THE BEST POKEMON MOVIE, ONE OF THE BEST ANIME OVAS. "}{"Title":"Why is this playing in the theatres?","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon 3 is little more than three or four episodes of the TV series, strung together without the usual commercials. The story is typical of Pokemon (conflict, fighting, and a resolution where all are happy in the end), and there is nothing original or unusual in the animation. Some of the holes in the plot are filled in (over the closing credits!) without explanation, and everything is just a bit too sweet.Why see it on the big screen? The only reason is to be a part of your child's world. Both of my sons enjoy Pokemon, and by my showing an interest in what they like, we are closer. Seeing a film in a theatre is still different than seeing it on the tube, and my sons enjoy the full movie-going experience. I gave the movie a 4, mostly from my children's point of view. "},{"Title":"Pokemon 3 is a poor, dull effort.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This third Pokemon movie is too abstract for younger kids to follow and too repetitious to entertain older kids. The message of the film-- about dealing with loss-- is subverted by the return of the young girl's father during the film's credits. Team Rocket provide some amusement, but they're not really part of the small plot, so they don't appear very often. "},{"Title":"A vast improvement..and an excellent film","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon The Movie 3 Spell Of the Unown Is a wild action packed adventure that finds Ash Kecthum, out to rescue his mother from a pokemon named 'Entei. This could've been a great action movie, if the idiots at Warner Bros hadn't choped it to a mesely 91 minutes. However the much darker feel, and fasted paced dramatic story reamin intact. I recomend this one! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Darker and More Serious Than the Usual Pokemon Fare, and That's What's Great About It","Date":"5 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" NOTE I AM EVALUATING POKEMON MOVIES AS POKEMON MOVIES, NOT AS REAL MOVIESThe third time was definitely the charm here. This was a great Pokémon film for several reasons, not the least of which is it being a darker and stranger adventure than usual.The plot involves a little girl named Molly who lost her parents and is granted wishes by the unknown. She now lives in her strange little world with Entei as her father. Entei captures Ash's mother to grant her wish to have a mother.The story is more serious than you would expect from Pokémon, and the film benefits from it. The sense of tragedy was there as you could really feel for Molly. Of course, it was also quite personal for Ash.The weird dream-world Ash and the gang go through is very strange and gives the film a surreal quality. The whole film takes place in virtually one setting, but they really manage to make it work.The Pokémon battles were top notch. The battle between Charizard and Entei, in particular, is one of the best and most nail-biting battles ever in the series.The ending where Molly finally comes to her senses (and is reunited with her real parents during the end credits) is very moving, and the music is as good as you could expect.The best Pokémon movie so far; it just barely beats out Pokémon 2000. The dark tone of the movie might not appeal to younger fans of the series, but for older fans, it really is a stand-out.9/10 "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie!!!","Date":"11 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have not seen this film in years and once I saw it again it was just as good if not better than I remember it as a kid. As a kid, I loved watching the battles and the visuals. Now that I am older, I admire not only the incredible animation but also the creative use of the Pokémon, the battles and the surprisingly complex message about dealing with grief. Also, the execution is perfect and the reason I am not giving it 10 stars is that the scene with Charizard is a little out of nowhere. And I can't believe how little 4Kids changed in this movie. In conclusion, this movie is basically one of the best Pokémon movies there is. It is a film that can be enjoyed even by people that are not familiar with the show or any of the movies. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the Pokemon","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Onto the third Pokemon movie in my Pokemon movie marathon! Need a backstory? Check out my review on the first movie.The Good While both previous movies gave some good fight scenes or Pokemon battles, this movie's fight scenes stand out. I'm currently watching the 13th movie, and I'm not entirely sure if a traditional Pokemon battle has even taken place yet. It's kind of hard to explain why they're good, but trust me. Probably the best battle of them all in the movie is fan favorite Charizard vs. Entei (a Fire Legendary Beast). This battle in particular will keep your attention.This movie also tackles the issue of having one parent. The little girl in this movie lives with her father, I'm not entirely sure what happened to her mother but I think by the end credits she makes an appearance. This deals with some good emotional turmoil and essentially sets up the reason why the protagonist is fighting Entei. Not going to go into detail, just a review.The Bad Unlike the previous movies this movie actually doesn't have anything negative about it. Though this is partially due to the fact there may not be an antagonist in this movie. If I had to pick I guess Entei would be the antagonist, if not him then the Unown (hate those things...that is also how it's spelled btw, no K). So it's up to debate.The Ugly Nothing so far.So overall this is yet another, for a third time in a row, must watch. Other people will say this is as good as the first one, and that is something I can agree on. "},{"Title":"Pokémon 3 The Movie (2000)","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Returns some of the darkness of the first film. Here we find a bunch of legendary Pokemon making one young girl's dreams come true. Not as nice as it sounds when her imaginary world is a nightmare for the rest of the earth. Pokemon 3 does a lot of things right, such as limiting the number of Pokemon, allowing for more story. It also brings Ash back his Charizard for a while, which only makes sense, since he doesn't have any powerful Pokemon at this point in the continuity. Team Rocket are reduced to such a joke that even they question their appearance by breaking the 4th wall. More CGI, which doesn't quite mix with the simple anime style, adds something new but not essential. "},{"Title":"Best of the Best!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of the best Japanese film that I have ever seen. Too clear things up to people who think that Pokemon is dead, it's not. If it was dead people would not go watch the movies, watch the cartoons and buy toys and games. I went and saw this movie opening night with my 13 year old daughter and her four Poke-mania friends. At first I went in there thinking that I would hate this movie because it is Pokemon. But I came out liking it. So don't judge a movie by what it is, because if you go into a movie convinced that you won't like it, you want, so you should go into movies with an open mind. My daughter is now 15 and still loves it, and me too. Her friends aren't because it has faded away, but still we continue to watch, while I learn more about it from here. And, this is coming from a 45 year old women and a 15 year old teen.  "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Warning May contain Spoilers.    Even Pokemon naysayers will have to bow down to the plot and story of Pokemon 3.. The mighty Entei and the twisted daydreams of his adopted daughter provide quite a hayride.  To viewers with emotional presence and empathy, this film will come off brilliant, perhaps even shocking.  It presents a realm of fantasy and child-logic that is so universal, but has rarely been explored by film.. It is similar to The Neverending Story in its escapism, but presents the little girl perspective.  So incredible is the vastness of Mi's imagination, made visible as a crystalline fortress right in the middle of the real world, and slowly enveloping it.  This juxtaposition is beautiful and original (something I, personally, have never seen in a movie before.)  It is escapism, but also a symbol of the fantasy/reality conflict that Mi suffers and wants to resolve.  Intertwined is her longing for a mother, her inability to cope with the pain of real life, and of course her preference for the safe and protected fantasy world that the mythical Entei provides, materializing her every wish and whim.      Throw in all our staple heroes, new legendary Pokemon, Team Rocket and a townful of onlookers, and you get perpetual motion with lots of twists.  The morals and messages in this film give it the same taste that Mew vs. Mewtwo had, but this one is much more relevant to the human experience.    It's great to have Charizard in the action, and the battle scenes with Entei are riveting.  The only technical problem is the manual animation glaring on the CGI effects and backgrounds, but this is still the best Pokemon film to date because of its lovely, complex plot and splendid resolution.       Pokemon 3 is probably too deep and psychological for the kids, though.  Freud would have a field day and you will too, if you have the ability to get into Mi's shoes and really feel this film.  It's a wonderful experience for anyone who is willing to appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Better than the first two, and best film this year so far.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Despite the childish dialogue the movie was very enjoyable, the best of the trilogy. I was surprised that when I went to see it I found the adults more interested in the plot than the kids. I think that the odd plot captivated the adults and left the kids scratching their heads. Pokemon 3 focuses more on the mythology of pokemon with the Unown and Entei, that's why its the best of the three. The previous two films focused more on preaching morals to the young people in the audience. This one had a moral but its not up in your face like the first one and doesn't take away from the plot like in the second one. Overall this was the best-animated film I've seen this year (monkeybone and recess schools out were disappointing), but I have high expectations for Shrek, which I still haven't seen. Oh well seconds not that bad ) "}{"Title":"gotta catch em all","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was a great addition to the pokemon legacy but only for the addition of the unknown's visual effect. It strayed very far from Ash Ketchum's destiny of becoming the ultimate pokemon trainer which kind of bummed me out. Oh sure he got a great battle in with an insurmountable enemy but it sure didn't help him win any badges. Oh well it was good for experience points I guess. "},{"Title":"Not too painful.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I only saw this movie because my son wanted to and the movie theatre wouldn't let me drop a four-year-old off without supervision.  All that said, it was much better than I expected and 100x better than the first movie.  The animation was done well and the plot was more congruent than the first movie.  There were only two problems I really had with the movie...1.  All the spiral chase scenes left both my son and myself dizzy for about half-an-hour after the movie. 2. How did the little girl's mother reappear?  We are told she disappeared two years ago, then she reappears in the credits.  What's with that?  Oh, well, I guess they had to put in one loose end for it to be a true Pokemon. "},{"Title":"pokemon is some of the best childrens entertainment today","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am an adult.  My nine year old and I watch Pokemon movies and the television show together all the time.  I enjoy playing the video games with him also.  I enjoy a game where you have to problem solve rather than have the fastest hand-eye co-ordination.  Although the game features battles, the characters faint rather than die, when a loss occurs.  The movies and show teach respect for the enviornment and tolerance for the differences of others. Long live Pokemon "},{"Title":"an older perspective","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  i have read that there are no fans of pokemon left, but i disagree, i have been following the series since in its inception, and being 18 years old, i see some things that younger kids might.the movie itself....seems to be darker than the first two, and not as grand of a scale as they were, with the world at stake, this time its just a little girl, and......well that i will save for aspoiler. Entei, the legendary dog, is featured center stage, which is GREAT. some old friends show up......although tracey is only there for a cameo, but new freinds are made, and new pokemon are revealed........ this movie also had a lot more pokemon battles, and they were more intense, so you can see some of the new NEO pokemon's skillz.now earlier what i said about it being darker than the others, is where the others dealt with an epic scale, this is really close to home, and deals with loss of loved ones....and being alone. the unown are quite different from any other pokemon seen so far. very amazingly done in CGI, so they stand out on their own, which is also creepy. the crystal towers are done like a twisted dream....... one thing that stood out, is ash and co. are in life threatening situations during this movie, its not simply getting K.Oed, its falling to their death that is worrying them. sharp objects and no mercy is the theme here. many times we have worried that our heroes are gona be hurt, but this is the first time when we are afraid they will be killed!overall, a great movie, the music is more appropriate than brother my brother in the first movie, action packed orchestration, telling you the mood of the scene, very clearly, matrix style, tense moments fill the last half hour.like i said 8 out of ten, the only things keeping it from being a 10 is(minor spoiler alert!!!!)ok read onash not getting any new pokemon or something monumental...the short being kind of campy.and the unnown not really being explained....but i guess thats why they are unknown "},{"Title":"I give it an 8","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am not a little kid. I am 15 years old, and I am PROUD of the fact that I like this movie. Does that REALLY sound so crazy? Not only is Pokémon far from a dead craze, it is NOT only enjoyable to zombified 5-year-olds. Nor am I alone, nor are all the Pokémon fans I know part of the Dreaded Unpopular Clique at the high school I go to. I am saddened to see so many people blindly criticize everything even remotely connected to Pokémon simply because they don't understand it. (I think that if joe_don_baker_jr actually WATCHED the movie, he might not think it was so horrible.) Incidentally, you can tell just by reading the pans that all those so-called professional critics never actually watched the movie. They just fell asleep during the previews, woke up during the end credits, and just went home and immediately wrote the most scorching reviews they could think of. You could tell they really had to work hard to make it sound so terrible while still being vague enough to avoid revealing that they don't have a clue what it's about. Isn't there ANYONE who agrees with me when I say that all smart people do not automatically hate Pokémon? That I don't know what possessed the critics to say the movie had sub-saturday-morning animation? That you do not have to be a mindless 2-year-old or a drooling crackhead to enjoy this movie? "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow, this was awesome.  I have been a Pokemon fan for a while now, and this just takes the cake.  I notice a lot of people saying go see Spy Kids instead, and that this film is no good.  However I bet a lot of those people haven't seen both this and Spy Kids, to tell which is better.  I have yet to see Spy Kids, so I can't compare them.  Go see both, then you can make a decision.I should note that this film (with the exception of the mini-movie) cuts down a bit on the cuteness of Pokemon, but it actually helps the film! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but better than the second.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went and saw this movie today, and I liked it for the most part.  I still think the first movie was the best, but I liked it better than 2000. It's nice to see Charizard again, too.Where the first two movies involved Ash saving the world for the greater good, (the first time, Ash stopped Mewtwo from his rampage, then he stopped the three Legendary Birds from destroying the world)this time it's more personal for him.  *basic plot outline, may have small spoilers*  This time, Ash needs to save his mom from a young girl and her father, Entei, one of the new legendary dog Pokemon.  I like the moral they give at the end, it teaches kids to work as a team, like a family.Nintendo, it seems, can do no wrong with Pokemon.  The only way they could do bad, I think, might be if Nintendo makes Pikachu pull a Conker (Conker's Bad Fur Day, which started as a friendly kids' video game, but later became vulgar and scatological).  But, I know Nintendo, they'd never do something like that to Pokemon.The short cartoon, Pikachu and Pichu, was another super-cute Pokemon featurette where Pikachu babysits two Pichus (Pikachu's new pre-evolved form, they're awfully cute).  To me, Pikachu's Vacation is still the best, but this short made more sense than Pikachu's Rescue Adventure.The good Brock's back, the Unowns are chilling, the aforementioned moral, the appearance of Charizard, captures the feel of Pokemon better than 2000, the Pokemon Johto remix.  (Tracy appears in two scenes, if you liked him.)The bad No Squirtle (Ash has Totodile in this movie, but he's not the same), the Unowns might be a little scary for very young kids, the critics' unchanged views.fave line (coming from Meowth) Do you think we'll get a bigger role in the next movie?The Japanese already have the fourth Pokemon movie, involving the 251st Pokemon, Celebi.  I'm there for that one, too...If you hate Pokemon and only type to rip on it, my question is...Why did you bother paying for it?  (to lovers and haters alike no 50 movie was awesomes or Pokemon suxes, or any equivalencies, like the reviewers on Yahoo! Movies with Pokemon the Movie 2000, please)  These flicks are far from the worst animated movies.  If you really want a bad animated movie, try Rock-A-Doodle.  I think I speak for everyone when I say that had to be the worst animated movie.Pokemon forever! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie...","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Why reviewing this movie, when you haven't see it, and is based your review on being an Anti-Pokémon , saying that Pokémon is fading, is dead and all that...see the movie and then review it...Anyway, to don't make things long, the movie is better than the originals, with more quality in art, more and better FX, better and interesting storyline...Anyway, the movie is cool, excellent and if you are a Pokémon fan, you better see it!!(this review is based on the original Japanese version, from how are the things, the movie will not change by much so it still be great and excellent!!!) "},{"Title":"The worst of the first three, but still good.","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie is good, and anyone who doesn't like Pokemon is an idiot! I really enjoy Pokemon when I watch it. BEWARE, SPOILERS! Ash's mom is kidnapped!!!! It's all because this girl who has lost both parents found the Unown Pokemon tablets her father found just before he vanished, and wished she had a father and a mother. The Pokemon Entei appeared and became her father and then Entei went and kidnapped Ash's mom right in front of his own eyes. He tried to stop Entei, but it was too fast and Ash couldn't catch up. You are NOT going to believe this, but Ash and the little girl Molly were friends when they were both younger!! She and her father and mother would come over and the two kids would play together!!! I have already told you too much, so I will keep my mouth shut about the rest of this movie except for one more thing, I was really happy for Molly when her father came back, and I was thrilled when her mother was found and brought home, that was probably my favorite part. ) Well, JA-NE! 6/10 "},{"Title":"9 stars- very heartwarming","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I entered the theater a few years back to see this movie, I expected that I would only see this movie once; I didn't feel that I would be driven to buy the movie when it come out on home video. As I watched the ending credits, I couldn't have possibly felt more different. I am SO getting this movie when it comes out on video was one of my thoughts. In several aspects, it is completely different from the previous two movies. It wasn't about a quest to save the world, or about some malevolent pokémon seeking to conquer the world (there isn't really even an antagonist)- it was about a young girl who dearly loved her parents, her efforts to compensate for their absence, and their joyous reunion. I feel that the movie was very heartfelt and moving. I give this movie 9 stars. I'd give it a ten, but I think that my opinion may be a little biased because I like pokémon. I only lower my vote one point because I feel that even someone who doesn't like pokémon will still enjoy this movie. However, if you're prejudiced against pokémon, then you won't like it after you see it, but only because you hated it before you ever saw it- "}{"Title":"The Best of them all (so far!)","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie opening day with by buddies, (Who AMAZINGLY still hold Pokemon to their hearts, despite one of their mom's persistant request on how bad it is for kids) anyway, I saw it just like the other 2 on the first day. (It's a little vow I have made.) This one is so far the best of them all. Good use of computer animation. Best story plot. Awsome music. Dubbing still amazes me. The short was good. Excelent Drama and Coreography. There are still 2 to go.  (Yes it has been announced, Pokemon 4 and 5 are coming out) yet 4Kids Entertainment has broken away with Kids WB, (Good, bad, you decide) and the thing that makes me INFURIATED is that they're thinking of making the next 2 Pokemon movies directly to video. But non the less they are coming out. P.S It's pronounced Po-kay-mon. NOT Pok-ee-man or whatever.  "},{"Title":"Not half bad","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Here we've got a Pokemon movie that, so help me, has Emotional Resonance.And if that doesn't float your boat, than forget that it's a Pokemon movie entirely, turn the volume way down, throw on some trancy music and enjoy the gorgeous, Dali-esque backgrounds.  You are obligated, by the way, to fast-forward through the Pikachu and Pichu short at the opening. "},{"Title":"Nice job!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After watching this movie one Saturday night, I breathed a sigh of relief. 4Kids finally did a good job on a Pokémon movie. Despite many a naysayer out there (you people know who you are), I must say this movie was handled better than the first two, not in terms of advertising and hype, but in the actual dubbing.The short, Pikachu and Pichu, wasn't much of a hurdle to write English lines for, as it is all in Pokémon dialect. It has a pretty good message about putting aside conflicts to solve problems, but wasn't without humor, as the two street-wise Pichu brothers lead Pikachu on a wild romp across town. Especially well handled was the party and the end, since it is a special day for Ash and Pikachu both. I won't spoil it for you; just see it for yourself.Spell of the Unown gives a touching story while also having nice animation effects. The fight against Entei and the grown-up reincarnations of Molly is a bit long, though. (Says Molly No more fighting!) Ash's Charizard makes a return appearance, as well. In sticking with tradition, 4Kids even kept the original music and sound effects. The best part? No annoying pop music! Even the ending theme, To Know the Unknown, isn't as mindless as most songs today.All in all, worth the price of admission, especially if you like Pokémon, and even if you paid just to get the promotional Entei card.My score 8/10 "},{"Title":"Quite good","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't mind this movie Pokemon 3 The movie. I did see the first ever pokemon the movie and i did find that boring. I never saw the 2nd one and i didn't i'll ever see it because pokemon isn't my cup of tea. Although i did watch the 3rd one and it did get me into it. I give this movie at least 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Third Time is Even Less A Charm.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pokemon 3 (2000) Dir Michael Haigney, Kunihiku Yuyama / Voices Veronica Taylor, Rachael Lillis, Eric Stuart, Madeleine Blaustein, Ikue Otani Usual silliness regarding these uneducated meatheads throwing balls into the air that become Pokemon creatures for no other reason other than to beat each other up. It is like a retarded Fight Club. After that fun and games bores viewers to tears the hero, Ash must rescue his kidnapped mother because a little girl believes that she is her mother. I say check the birth papers sister. They could have convicted her in juvenile court but she could counter with an insanity plea from being part of this film. Climax features candy coated violence that is aimed at children that conservatives fail to acknowledge. Directors Michael Haigney and Kunihiku Yuyama must have a lot of free time on their hands if they are able to create three of these bullshit animations. Characters move their mouths all one way and another kid never opens his eyes. Ikue Otani is given the task for providing the sounds of the most famous Pokemon and that isn't something anyone should have tied to themselves. Pokemon speak gibberish that one could imitate by farting. There is no reason to subject children to this garbage. It is nothing more than sugar coated violence with no real moral purpose. Terrible animation should be placed in a vice grip and crushed to pieces. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Simple and uninteresting kids film","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Even as a former fan of Pokémon, I can tell you that there's very little value in this film. Its full of flat jokes, wooden characters, painfully simplistic dialogues and as a whole it just doesn't deliver. I was dead bored while watching this.Though yes, it's a movie aimed for children, I get that, but even as a children's film this movie has very little to offer. The action scenes and the various battles that come with the Pokémon franchise are not horrible, I suppose, but neither do they manage to provide us with anything new or exciting. They're just on par with the battles from the TV series, which is really neither a plus or a minus. Furthermore, from a fan's point of view, I guess that it's nice to see more of Ash's mom and Charizard, one of the most popular Pokémon of the franchise. But both of these characters have very limited screen time, barely even having any dialogue in Mama Ketchum's case or having any cool battle scenes in the case of the latter.The biggest flaw of this movie is its villain though. Entei, the big furry monster in the cover, has some cool scenes, I admit, but the entity behind him/it is very... nonthreatening and uncool. Like a big pile of floating Scrabble pieces. And it never talks, which just manages to underline just how boring it is as the main antagonist/conflict.And of course the Team Rocket is in this movie to provide cheap jokes and unwanted slapstick. They were awful.So yeah, bad movie that has very little to offer to anyone over the age of eight. But there's really nothing malicious or harmful in this film. It doesn't teach your kids any bad morals or anything. As a film it's harmless, though not very good. That being said, don't show this to your kids. There are plenty of children's films out there that are vastly superior in quality. "},{"Title":"Okay getting a little too much now....STOP!!","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Ugh this film made my head reel. BADLY. But i will admit it, it wasn't bad from the last time I watched it. Fun new Pokémon. Ash is acting a little more like a teenager then the ten year old he really started out to be. Pikachu, which Im glad to say is still with us with his famous sayings. (even if we don't really understand them - but hey, if it ain't broke don't fix it!!) The only part that I didn't really like (which is a shame as its the main part) is the character Molly Hale. Who really I think came off a little too spoilt. Now I know its the main part that she bends the world to her will as her father died and she never knew her mother. But for me that never quite did it. She just ended up annoying me. Entri also REALLY annoyed me, (carm down dear irmalicious, your getting a little annoyed over a cartoon you probably haven't watched for the best of five years, anyway) couldn't the unknown created a better father figure? I mean kidnapping Ashs Mom Delia was probably not the smartest thing to do. After seeing Ash and his trusty crew save the Pokémon world, wouldn't be the smartest thing to do. It would be like kicking a rhino in the backside. Also Entri sounded liked a microphone!Not a bad movie for a Pokémon fan. If only they made Molly a tragic tearaway and Entri a hot six foot then yeah I might watch it a bit more. "},{"Title":"dreams can be powerful","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I liked the pikachu short. It gets you into the movie. The last few days have been spent watching pokemon 5,6 & 7.Family and friendship were mentioned throughout the movie. As she lost both her parents she tried to make up for it by creating her own which didn't work out well.The unown are quite powerful. Even in the mind of a child a lot of damage was done. Her father disappeared as soon as he came into contact with them, he might have had better control over them.The were a few battle scenes. The Charizard and Entei fight showed how strong Entei was, though not a real pokemon just her vision from a book.A movie about friends and having dreams to achieve. "},{"Title":"Overall great! More Team Rocket pleez...","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The 3rd installment in the Pokemon series is surprisingly sweet! I'm 24years old and started watching the Pokemon videos about 7 months ago & what can I say...I'm hooked! The humor of the TV series is exceptionally well, especially that of the subversive Team Rocket! The one gripe I have had with the films is that they tend to be more action oriented & therefore lose the the fun & humoresque appeal. Also Team Rocket tends to get the shaft. They use little or no pokemon in the films...I think Weezing was in the 1st for all of 15 seconds & in 2000, Weezing & Arbok show up for about 30 more seconds. Both are absent in 3 as well as Likitung & Victreebell (love that woman's scream!) but some other Pokemon pops up as an annoyance. Meowth said it right...Hope we get more screen time in the next movie. Overall though it was a great film...the Molly character was well developed & it is always nice to have Brock back...nice touch of having Tracey make a small cameo, too! Can't wait for Pokemon 4! "},{"Title":"Decent adaptation, keep an open mind!","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Contrary to what some have said, Pokemon is NOT dead.  If it was, Pokemon Stadium 2 would not be one of the biggest renting videogames right now, nor would this movie would have made it to the big screen at all.  Before I go on, I'm 31 years old and have been a die-hard Pokemon fan for the last couple of years.  There have been both good and bad episodes of the show, and I've had mixed opinions of the two previous movies.  I am back to review Pokemon 3, which, like its predecessors, consists of a cutesy Pikachu short (Pikachu and Pichu) and a less flighty feature (Spell Of The Unown).I'll admit that Pikachu and Pichu is nothing more than a showcase of some of the new Pokemon from the Gold and Silver versions of the videogame; pretty plotless and pointless, but it IS darn cute.  I was really looking forward to seeing the Pichu brothers on screen for the first time, because I just ADORE Pichu.  After seeing the short, I'm even more anxious to have a plush doll of the Little Brother Pichu (if you were paying attention, he's the one with the little tuft sticking up on his head) than I was before.The main feature is called Spell Of The Unown, and is a much more fleshed out story.  In it, Ash and friends must save his mother and a Pokemon researcher's daughter from being held prisoner in a crystal dreamworld created by the ancient Pokemon called the Unown.  Why and how this dreamworld is created would reveal too much of the story, but it's one that shouldn't be a massive snore to the adults in attendance.  You feel for the people involved, even though you know that they're only animated characters.  You feel their pain and frustration.  Okay, yes, many of the Pokemon do nothing more than speak their names, but I'll bet the more jaded of you would find it even more dumb if the Pokemon actually spoke human language (which a couple of them actually do), and it may still seem like the maker of the flick is doing nothing more than to attempt to empty the pocketbooks of American parents, but do not blindly dismiss this movie just because it has the Pokemon name attached to it, and do NOT blindly rag on it just because you didn't want to see it in the first place.  As with the other two, go in with an open mind, and you just might have fun in spite of yourself. "}{"Title":"An improvement over the first two","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yeah, there still is the annoying chant of gotta catch 'em all, there still is the blatant merchandising angles, the little critters are just as annoying as they always have been, and the whole disturbing cockfighter mentality is still very much intact.What sets this film above the first two is the sometimes imaginative and visually impressive use of CG, and the story in itself.  Yeah, the story is every bit as hypocritical as one could expect from Pokemon (fight, fight, fight, but then state that brutality outside of the realms of good friendly sportsmanship is bad).  But there actually is some substance in the plot, which is essentially about a lonely little girl who is very much intent on separating herself from the harsh reality of not having her parents around.  Yes, there actually are some very thoughtful moments in this movie.Granted, it is not enough for me to take back every bad thing that I have ever said about Pokemon, but it was a rather pleasant surprise.  This movie still is far from being a classic, but it is easily the best thing to ever have come out of the whole Pokemon craze.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Poke-saga marches on.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ah yes.  Pokemon 3.  Exactly how many adults really wanted to see another sequel be born out of this Japanese phenomenon?  Well too bad.  Kids still occasionally get to rule the box office and even though the second Pokemon movie didn't do close to what the first did, the animated pictures are easy and cheap to make.And yeah, they sure look it.Each of the Pokemon movie has thus far been preceded by a short cartoon. While these used to be standard fare for moviegoers decades ago, now they are really only gimmicks used to hype a movie.  In Pokemon shorts they are used exclusively to stuff as many characters into the shortest amount of time.  Children who are fans of the popular game each have favorites and producers of the movie wouldn't want to disappoint any of the youngsters by casually omitting the best Pokemon EVER.Unfortunately these shorts generally have very very VERY loose plots and hardly feature the children Pokemon trainers which keep the actual motion picture together.  In other words, unless you're counting Pokemon or are a big fan of silent cartoons (well silent other than the more than 53 ways of saying Pikachu or various other nonsense) you're going to start your shared movie going experience with utter crap.When the actual Pokemon 3 movie does finally appear, the mythos begins. Parents and children alike are thrust deep into a largely sentimental tale of a girl who's mother is missing and father is often away studying legendary Pokemon. (Yes, even the adults in these films are Poke-fanatical.) Obviously the creators of this script wanted a more meaningful story and included quite touching and often equally troubling plot points concerning single and zero parent homes.Ash and his friends (as well as his quasi-enemies Team Rocket) have to save the girl as well as Ash's mother from the out of control dreamworld the girl puts everyone in due largely to the help of some legendary Pokemon. (Appropriately titled The Unknowns.) Battles are fought, animation grows shoddy, and parents start checking watches.  Kids, however, sway between exhilaration and near boredom as the movie uneasily shifts from over exaggerated meaningful drivel to over exaggerated meaningless drivel. Eventually things all turn out okay and children are bounding for the exits refreshed with the idea they Gotta catch them all and the coffers of some rich Japanese animators are refilled.Parents may have sacrificed a few dozen brain cells, but there was at least one hour and twenty-eight minutes of peace and quality time spent with their children. (If they'd actually take up the game and played with their children, however, that would be remarkable.)Grade C- "},{"Title":"I still feel good I was raised on TMNT and Muppets","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For me and my generation of people (well most of us), were raised on a steady diet of Muppets and Ninja Turtles.  Looking now at the desperate kid scene, I feel glad in my youth I was able to indulge in caricatures who not only had some partial education, but also didn't say they're name every single frickin'n time they talked.Because, after seeing this third enstallment in the Pokemon saga (I was a little lenient for the first 2), I keep on getting the feeling that what Trey and Matt on South Park were showing in that episode of Chinpokomon wasn't satire, but is as proportionally correct to today as is the billboard on the beach in Jaws.  That is the feeling I got watching this movie.  I haven't watched Pokemon in a number of months (needed a break really), and I realized now why I stopped watching.  The pokemon each say there names every time they talk, they do stupid little dances, and teach things that were already learned in the first 2 Pokemon movies (that tire sequence at the beginning is as original as the formula in See Spot Run).  Not to mention if you are one of the few somewhat smart people watching the movie that don't know the names of the creatures, relax; the kids in the theater mention they're names every time they come on the screen.  At the end I came to this conclusionUnless you have zombified kids (the type that wander around the house repeating the 'gotta catch em all' slogan that gets repeated more than the word kill in David Berkowitz's mind) who love the show, I suggest staying home and using natural paioti to get halucinations instead of watching the repeated pokemon here.  And for kids who might think they want to see this but haven't watched Pokemon in a while, stay away and see Spy Kids.  F+ (for some so-so anime). "},{"Title":"Eww.","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Wow. I don't even really remember that much about this movie, except that it stunk.The plot's basically; a girl's parents neglect her, so this sicko PokeMon pretends to be her dad. Am I the only one disturbed by that? Then, this weirdo PokeMon kidnaps Ash's mom to pretend to be the girl's. I don't care if he was trying to make the girl happy, that's just gross.There was no real plot. The girl was just a whiny brat who wanted things her own way. She played with Unowns, was the daughter of Entei and apparently could grow and shrink in age on a whim with the help of her dad.That's pretty much all I can remember, but I think you can take it as a hint, and not see it. (Or if you do see it, don't expect much.) 1 out of 10.Seriously. If you want a PokeMon movie, rent PokeMon; the First Movie. "},{"Title":"Not the best of 'em","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Pikachu and Pichu short cartoon was better than the earlier ones, but the main feature was only average.  When the Unknown Pokemon were turning the whole town into crystal, it was really boring.  The new Pokerap was especially good. "}]