[{"Title":"Sick...demented...hilarious!!!!!","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"70 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Screw all those crappy reviews!  This is a wonderful film!  First of all, I was hoping to one day see a movie about the actors behind a children's TV show who are completely nuts in real life.  Well, I got my wish.  I would say that Adam Resnick (the writer) stole my idea, but I had no exact thoughts on where to go with the premise.  Well, Resnick went really far with this wonderful premise and in result we have this dark, alluring, hilarious comedy!The cast is absolutely topnotch!  I read one review slamming Edward Norton's performance in the film, saying that he phoned in his performance.  Sure, his performance in this film doesn't QUITE measure up to those in Primal Fear and Rounders, but he did one hell of a job, and I can tell he researched the role very well to the point where he completely disappeared into the character.  Whether it's a dramatic or comedic role, Norton always immerses himself in his roles.  Though you can classify him as the straight man in this wacky satire, he says and does a lot of things that had me cracking up, without any humorous intentions.  The only thing that disappointed me slightly was that Robin Williams didn't have as big a role as I expected.  In the first 45 minutes, we only see him intermittently. Actually, Norton really has the starring role and if Robin weren't a more popular actor, he probably would've been billed first.  Norton's one of my favorite actors, but I believe if you're gonna bill an actor as the star, he better be the star!  But Robin Williams was still in top form.  Catherine Keener is beautiful, yet entirely convincing as an ego-driven TV executive. Jon Stewart doesn't have too many funny scenes, but his goofy Jerry Lewis haircut was enough to make me crack up.  Danny Woodburn--Mickey from Seinfeld--shows off his fine acting skills, playing more than just the little guy.  The always-amusing Vincent Schiavelli makes a few appearances towards the end.  Michael Rispoli is both hilarious and likable as the simple-minded ex-fighter, Spinner.  Danny DeVito proves yet again that his skills behind the camera match his talents in front of the camera.I don't suppose Death to Smoochy will be receiving any major Oscars, but it should at least be nominated for Best Art Direction.  The sets, lighting and color pallette are absolutely incredible.  As grim as it is, it's a beautiful film to look at.This is an R-rated comedy with a well-deserved R.  There's tons of profanity and some truly crude (though not disgusting, thankfully) sex gags. If you're in the mood for an old-fashioned, Cary Grant-type screwball comedy--you will be sorely appalled.  Nevertheless, the humor is smart and witty, just drenched in cynicism.  When Norton was doing the show and pulled out a cookie shaped like a man's genitals and Robin started screaming at the kids what it really is, I was dying with laughter.  You may not feel good about laughing at some of these jokes, but the sense of humor doesn't lie. But as cynical as it is, I didn't feel the movie was mean-spirited. Because I'm often turned off by mean-spirited comedies.  I guess it's because as scummy as these characters prove to be, there's at least one redeeming quality about each of them.  Sure, Rainbow Randolph is a loud, obnoxious drunk.  He lost his TV show.  They snatched his dream, because of one little bribery slip-up.  So he's not a saint.  Is Mister Rogers a saint?  As far as we know, but how do we know for sure he wasn't in the same theater as Pee Wee Herman, disguised in a fake moustache and beard, pleasuring himself as well?  Whatever the public don't know can't hurt them.I was glad to see that the movie averaged a 6.9 rating on the IMDB.  I was expecting a rating much lower, after its poor box office records and countless bad reviews from major critics.  Well, I had a blast!  It's an energetic, upbeat, fun-filled journey with a ton of laughs.  I surely hope it one day reaches cult status.  And the sequence over the closing credits is perfectly delightful.  If you love Robin Williams and think he's one of the funniest men in the planet, if you're a fan of the great Edward Norton, if you think Catherine Keener is really hot, if you think Danny DeVito is a genius or if you simply wanna have a barrel of laughs--Death to Smoochy will keep you alive with pleasure.My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"An Original Adult Comedy","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to Smoochy pushes the envelope of comedy, only to fail because it couldn't find the right audience.  This comedy is amazing for its intensity and biting scenes that run side by side with comedy, there are dark scenes, harder dramatic elements not usually seen in regular comedies.  Yet, this fun, entertaining, and cerebral comedy has great elements of timing, acting, and directing.  Not for children, but the nature of plot (doesn't automatically capture any other audience), this sleeper comedy is a must see, because it breaks out of the mold of funny comedies into a more sophisticated, grown up form of laughter and comedical relief. "},{"Title":"Hillarious dark comedy","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"56 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is a dark comedy directed by Danny DeVito about the cut throat world of children's television. In this film, a popular children's show host (Robin Williams, more madcap than he's been in ages) gets caught taking a bribe and is fired, being replaced by the squeaky clean Smoochy the Rhino (Edward Norton, who is excellent in the role). Of course the former host wants his job back and sets out to get Smoochy... Of course everything but the kitchen sink gets thrown into the plot from organized crime to Nazis.. and everything is hillarious. A very dark film that is rated R for language, this film is bound to be somewhat controversal as some may be offended by the language and view of childrens programming portrayed here, but if you have an open mind going in the film is drop dead funny.. It does tend to drag a tad in the midsection as a subplot about a disabled former boxer gets tacked on, but the film is very entertaining and worth catching at the theatre. GRADE A- "},{"Title":"I smiled through the whole film (when I wasn't laughing)","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"38 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've never seen a Danny De Vito film I didn't like, and Smoochy is no exception.  Original and creative at every turn, with great performances from Edward Norton, Robin Williams, Catherine Keener, and everyone else in the cast.  I smiled and/or laughed through the whole film.  What more can you ask from a bent and twisted comedy, I ask you? "},{"Title":"Smart, subtle and smooth(-chy)","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It figures that Death to Smoochy didn't get too much advertisement and recommendations...it handles about a sensible and often occurring topic. Entertainment programs for children that are turned into big business, rules and controlled by people who don't care about anything but money, fame and commercializing. Death to Smootch shows how it's perfectly possible to cover up a world of bribery, fraud and blackmail behind the curtains of a colorful and jolly kid-show. Edward Nortons stars as Smoochy the Rhino. His character is dragged head over heals into the business when old-timer Rainbow Randolph is convicted of illegal actions. Smoochy is a pure character and his only intentions are to educate children and enlighten them with some important values of life, but he soon gets faced with the facts that the producers don't care about this at all. Death to Smoochy really succeeds in critisizing the greed in the media-business and manages to portray the producers and sponsors as a real bunch of vultures. It also gives a good image of the downward spiral of insanity someone is going through when he's borne down on the lee shore. Certainly recommended for the intriguing story and surrounding but in the very first place, for the brilliant characters that are involved in this story. The Irish mobsters impress and entertain the most...The sequences where they're taking care of everything are the funniest parts in this movie. Director DeVito (his fifth movie as a director and maybe the best of them all) cast himself terrifically as the greedy shorty who introduces himself as the new impresario. Jon Stewart's character is memorable because he has the dorkiest haircut I've ever seen. And then there's Edward Norton of course...needless to say that he's a very solid actor who acts like a true professional, no matter if the production is huge or not. Give Death to Smoochy a watch...it'll certainly be one of the most sparklingly satires you'll ever see.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good, And Nicely-Filmed Black Comedy","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm almost embarrassed to say it but I really enjoy this film. I say that because of the humor is sick, mainly the tirades spouted by Robin Williams (especially with kids nearby). Otherwise, this black comedy offers a really wonderful character as the lead good guy Smoochy the Rhino, played well by Edward Norton. How Norton could deliver some of these lines with a straight face is beyond me. He must have required numerous takes. He's a real hoot in here.Despite what you might have read from national critics, there are a lot of laughs in this film. I also thought the cinematography was interesting with vivid, fascinating colors and some nice closeup shots. For a comedy, I don't expect photography to be as good as it is in here. Kudos to the director and cinematographer.Williams, as the bitter dethroned kiddies TV host,  'Rainbow' Randolph Smiley, is, well.....Robin Williams, which means very profane and very funny. I expect that sort of profanity out of him, and he gets away with it here and there because of his great comedic talent, but I hate to hear it from female leads who are supposed to be likable. That's the case with Catherine Keener, who seems to play a lot of these hard-looking, foul- mouthed women.....although Smoochy finally softens her up by the end of this story.At any rate, you have to appreciate black comedy and this kind of almost-perverse humor, to like this movie. Of acquaintances who have viewed this film, I am the only one who liked it "},{"Title":"Hilariously intelligent and original satire.","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" With a brilliant cast, well written script and precise direction, this black comedy is well worth watching. I can understand that some people didn't like it, as black comedy isn't for everyone; especially black comedy set around the business of children's television. But Death to Smoochy is an intelligent and well written film that is completely original.Edward Norton is spot on as the moralistic Sheldon Mopes and Robin Williams is absolutely hilarious as the off the rails Rainbow Randolph. This doesn't however, take away from the rest of the cast, who are also all perfect.The story line is tight and entertaining to the very last second. I've looked very hard to find fault with this film - and I can't find any. Even the ending, which could be construed as sugary sweet, fits into the fantasy type world of the film.The important thing to remember about this film is that it's a satire, and taking a satire seriously is a big mistake. A funny and interesting satire is very hard to do, but in this instance it's something that Adam Resnick and Danny Danny DeVito have achieved brilliantly. "},{"Title":"A great comedy flawed only by too-dramatic character arcs.","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I would be wrong if I said that Danny DeVito's films were made with full intent to capture the realisms of life, and it is because of his ability to portray an eccentric world (or relationship) that he is able to made the most original and entertaining characters known to film.For example, although he didn't create the character Matilda, he was able to portray the girl with telekinetic ability in a very effective manner in the film of the same name. And also the characters in 'War of the Roses' were thoroughly over-the-top, but it was because of this that the films directed by the short man were so entertaining.'Death to Smoochy' was no exception. It is because of the over-the-top characters that it is so funny. Edward Norton's character in particular is hilarious just because of the OTT reactions the 'atrocities' of the world draw out of him, and the overly-nice attitude he oozes.There are other things that create humour. The lines are hilariously witty and even the facial expressions created by some of the characters give the film replay value. So IS there anything wrong with it?I, personally, don't believe the dated storyline creates an obstruction, but I do feel that there is a problem with the dramatic character arcs. The biggest example of this is Robin Williams' character who goes, in one scene, from being ridiculously hateful, to wanting nothing more than to save his ex-arch-rival. This is where the over-the-top obstructs believability, although it doesn't do enough to make me dislike the film even partially.The film, although flawed only by the very dramatic character arcs, is thoroughly enjoyable, and DeVito sprinkles just enough dramatic camera angles to support the extremity of the storyline. It is a rare gem, battered at the box office, but very safe in my collection of favourite DVDs.Enjoy.-Stoate.  "},{"Title":"Great film - if you're looking for a laugh out loud affair","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film's been released on DVD for a while and at my local blockbusters, i noticed it quietly sitting in a corner next to Day after tomorrow and dirty dancing 2. But as i work in blockbusters, i get free rentals every week so thought i might as well rent it out. Man, was i in for a shocker!! Talk about totally hilarious.Some of the gags in this film were quality - Robin Williams is at his comical best. I'm not saying it's Williams' best ever film (cough good will hunting cough) but certainly he's never been this funny. His gag about the abnormally shaped cookie was so funny. In fact, i've never laughed this much since Dumb and Dumber.Edward Norton was actually very believable as the clean cut good guy. I didn't expect it from him after watching Fight club and American history X but he carried out his role really well.Catherine Keener also looked really beautiful, she played her power-hungry turned nice chick character to a tee.Even though the story is about a kids show, there's a lot of dark comedy in it e.g. the involvement of the Irish gangsters (by the way also very funny) showing what a good job Danny devito has done directing this film. Credit to him. All the characters in the film served a purpose and above all, did it well!! All seemed believable and Robin Williams was the star.If you watch this film, persevere for the first 20 minutes because after which the jokes and plot come in hard and thick.Top stuff, rent if you want a comedy with original storyline and a little bit of good humoured smut thrown in for good measure. "},{"Title":"Latest version of NETWORK","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Am I the only one who sees this as a modern spin on the movie NETWORK?!?  The parallels are extraordinary.  Both are about executives finding a new talent that they want to exploit to the general public, but when he becomes too popular, they want to get rid of him.  Sure the outcome and general details vary, but the basic theme is virtually identical.I'm going on the record to say I actually enjoyed this story a lot.  The light fluffy delivery made a good contrast to the deep black ideas being played on.  The leads played their characters to the right tone, and the supports showed off brilliantly.  A wicked treat. "}{"Title":"Zappa The Play Within","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Danny DeVito is the Frank Zappa of Cinema. He makes meticulously crafted films, so finely designed that they really impress. These are fine products at the technical level with lots of cinematic tricks. They are also finely conceived in terms of the narrative placement. Heck, one of his films revolves around a Nabokov novel. But like Zappa, all that craft is deliberately hidden under an unappealing, inhuman noise.In this case, its the narrative conception that makes this worth while. I say that even though I am dying to report that at long last Williams, poor man, has a role that fits.That narrative structure relies on a currently popular device of plays about plays. Here, it is a film about an ice show about a TeeVee show. All three are equally abstract and stylized; all three an equal `distance' from the viewer. But unlike Lynch or Depalma or Greenaway, the casual viewer has no problem sorting out which is which. That's because of the talented Keener and how DeVito uses her as our surrogate. Walking through this, we have a fight over the TeeVee show in which a fighter in `real life' is murdered.We have essential nazis controlling the TeeVee show, disrupted by `real' Nazis which are a threat to the player and which he turns around in the iceshow parody. (This is a nod to Brooks and his similarly structured `The Producers.')Watch this. It lacks the inviting warmth in which many films wrap themselves, in fact it pokes a stick right in that tradition. But it is intelligent in both cinematic and literate ways.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it but&#133;","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When Death to Smoochy (DTS) came out I'd heard nothing but bad things about it from film critics and never paid it much attention. But after stumbling upon it on the IMDb several years later, and reading numerous rave reviews about it, I decided to take a risk and give DTS a shot anyway.For those who have spoken highly of the film's concept, acting, look, or uniqueness, I agree with you on those points. DTS throws out most of the conventional comedy mold and attempts to do something different and off the wall. The cast is also a great ensemble, including Edward Norton, Robin Williams, Catherine Keener, and Danny DeVitto among others.The problem for me was the delivery of the humor just didn't work. DTS relies too much on the uniqueness of itself to generate laughs. A theoretically good concept can't make up for the lack of substance of the greater product. The movie just drags on and on for nearly two hours, despite barely having enough humorous material to fill half that time. The only scene that I really found memorable was Robin Williams's rant about a certain phallic shaped cookie.Maybe I'm overlooking some deep inner meaning or something, but for me this film just didn't work and while some will no doubt like it for being different, it's a tough sell. "},{"Title":"OK satire, liked the skating diva","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death to Smoochy is a fair to middling satire of the media and those who play in it. It certainly bears the slightly warped touch of director Danny DeVito, who surrounds himself with like minded performers such as Robin Williams, Edward Norton and Jon Stewart. His choice for the ice skating opera diva is also in keeping with this theme, choosing the unconventional (and somewhat controversial in opera circles) Lauren Flanigan to poke fun at her genre. Although the plot centers on children's television, the language is certainly more for an adult audience, hence the R rating. By the way, a note to the Julliard School's Alumni Association, rumors of Ms. Flanigan's demise, as listed in your latest directory, are grossly exaggerated. "},{"Title":"Dated already. Has good moments but fails to come together","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rainbow Randolph is the top draw of daytime children's television; that is, until he is caught by the FBI taking cash in exchange for getting children onto the show.  With the sleaze hurting the studio, the execs look for the cleanest replacement they can find - enter one Sheldon Mopes aka Smoochy the Rhino.  Sheldon's clean cut approach rubs some of the execs up the wrong way as they try to push the usual marketing stuff through.  While he makes enemies within the studio, Rainbow Randolph is fuming and planning to destroy Smoochy and get his show back.I really wanted to love this simply because I am one of the few people in the UK who will have bothered to see this film since the collapse of FilmFour and poor US box office pretty much meant it barely reached video stores here.  However the overall film doesn't really manage to do what it sets out to do.  The plot seemed interesting to me a few years ago when it was first released in the US, but since then it's topical edge has been lost and what is left is a basic dark comedy.  Within this there are a handful of good moments but generally it just doesn't work out; the jokes are dark to be sure, but it has far too few laughs - and not for the want of trying. The film throws in violent gags, slapstick gags, outrageous gags and so on, but too many of them slip by without eliciting laughter.The plot is looked at to provide humour simply on the basis of how `unusual' and `darkly comic' it is, but it doesn't manage to provide laughs - but it does do enough to hold the interest.  It has far too much going on and far too many characters to adequately control.  As such it loses focus and, when it ended, I was unsure what it had been trying to accomplish but knowing for sure that it had failed.  Too much is unstructured and the script would have done better to lose a lot of characters (who only exist to drive the plot occasionally) and focus on the main strands.The cast is impressive but largely poor I'm afraid to say.  Norton is a powerhouse and is one of my favourite actors as a result, but here he can't carry the whole film.  His performance is good but only on the one level - when it goes beyond the comedy hippy, he loses it.  Likewise Williams just tries to swear and shock to be funny - his best moments are the more serious moments where he is falling apart but the film doesn't allow him time to do it.  Keener has good timing and a good role and she is worth watching here, as is Stewart, although he has little screen time.  DeVito is OK as actor and his direction is good in terms of interesting shots and frames, however he can't bring it all together.  Small roles from the Schiavelli and the dreaded Fierstein don't really add a great deal - and don't even get me started on the Irish mob caricatures!Overall I have been interested in this film for about two years and had forgotten it by the time I chanced upon it in the video store.  It had some good ideas and some potential but it was lost and the result is a film that is fragmented, unsure of it's self and, sadly, not very funny in either the dark sense or the laugh-out-loud sense.  Missed by most of the UK and seen by me - and I think the majority are right on this one. "},{"Title":"Someone toss me a beach towel because my head is swimming. How is this movie, a bad movie!? Death to Smoochy was pretty entertaining.","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Allow me to untangle this web. I don't care if Danny Devito's last movie was about jugging rubber balls for a hut full of pygmies on the outskirts of the Congo! This movie fits the bill, and you need to watch it! And that's why the rhino's going to get exactly what he deserves. Death to Smoochy is a mix of Barney the Dinosaur and over the top gangster films. Death to Smoochy is an acquired taste, that has since release, got a large cult follow. In no way is the movie perfect, this movie does take something so sacred like kid-televisions shows host, and turn it incredibly dark. Most of the characters are pretty unlikeable and mean-spirited, and their turn around to good, a bit far-fetch, but I have to say, that the movie isn't trying to be squeaky clean, it's trying to show that even the greater of good can still fall in the mud. The movie felt like a remake of 1939's Mr. Smith goes to Washington with its similar plot. The movie is about, a good-All American boy, named Sheldon Mopes AKA Smoochy (Edward Norton) who is hired by a network station to replace, corrupt children's television show host, Rainbow Randolph (Robin Williams) whom just got busted for taking bribes. It's seem like the television producers, M. Frank Stokes (Jon Stewart) & Nora Wells (Catherine Keener) charged with finding a squeaky clean replacement for Randolph, under-establish how squeaky clean, Sheldon is, as he's not willing to forsake any events that is funded by criminals such as the Parade of Hope, who hide under a charity organization. Now, Sheldon must try to keep his 'I want to do good, mentality believable, under the pressure of the harsh realism of corruption, leaded by attacks from both Rainbow Randolph, Parade of Hope, and the Network. Making a dark comedy is difficult to write, it's so easy to slip into a really depressing drama, or horror, if not handled correctly. I think the movie is well-written. It is crass, crude, and hilarious. It shows the depths of ugliness, but isn't too mean-spirited to be unlikeable. Still, whatever commentary there was supposed to be about American mass media consumerism didn't really come through right. Without the great gifted acting from both Edward Norton and Robin Williams, this movie wouldn't had work. Edward Norton's Sheldon Mopes is a lovable and friendly character that's so nice, so friendly, so naive, he played all those layers of the character so well we start to believe a guy like that can really exist! He was a bit annoying at times, but overall, he did great as the moral stone needed for this film to work. Robin Williams is just ridiculous, most of his jokes were funny as hell. This is the first role, in a long time of playing the good guy in the 1990s, that he was alright as the rude and irascible with a propensity for violence, type of a bad guy. The supporting cast was just as funny as them. I love the character of Spinner Dunn (Michael Rispoli). He was such a lovable funny character. The witty one-liners, harsh physical comedy and dark, biting tone force the audience to laugh out loud while squirming in their seats. Still, it's weird that Neo-Nazis are huge fans of a cartoony rhino. The music that goes with the film is just absurd, but great to hear; Step-father, one of Moochy's songs about being patient with mom's new husband, is pure brilliance. Even the Friends Come in All Sizes, song by Robin William is pretty impression with the opening tap dance. The whole ice dance event toward the end was very well-done. I got buzzed off of orange juice watching it. Death to Smoochy is known for its outwardly vulgar and profane humor, particularly Williams' profound cursing outbursts throughout the film. I wouldn't say, this movie should be watch, by children, at all. It was unfair of critics to call it one of the worst of the year. Overall Death to Smoochy is screwed up satire, but in a squeamishly delightful kind of way. Plus, for those of you who harbor a secret, pent-up, homicidal hatred of Barney, will love this movie. Death to Smoochy can't change the world but it did made a dent in some people lives. I was surprised to find that this film has so many rabid fans. "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The casting is perfect, the acting is superb, the dialog is sharp, the story is ingenious and hilarious, the editing is crisp (Bravo! Danny DeVito), and the music is just great. I loved it. You will, too.It is very hard to do justice to this movie in a summary. First, Smoochy gives a dark twist to children's TV programming and especially to children's charities, portraying them more as crime syndicates than do-good organizations. In one scene, Sheldon (Ed Norton), who is Smoochy the Rhino, declines to do an ice show, thus cutting off expected revenues to a well known children's charity. He is severely warned, They are the roughest of all the charities.Ed Norton is superb. You first meet an impossibly sincere, saccharine character who sits at a bar drinking orange juice spiked with liquid alfalfa---and gets buzzed. And you believe him. But, there are a couple of moments when he reveals the potential for insensate rage, and you learn that one time in his life he had to learn anger management, thus giving an entirely different spin to the character.Norton is exquisitely supported by all the others. Catherine Keener is a revelation. Early in the movie, Nora (Keener) is a hard-bitten TV exec who puts Sheldon (Norton)in his place, I didn't discover you. I delivered you. I have a bigger emotional investment in my nail polish.Later, she reveals a vulnerable woman who was used and hurt by the cads all around her in the children's TV business. Rebuffing Rainbow Randolph's (Robin Williams) suggestion they take up where they left off, years ago, Nora ripostes,Nora I was young. And stupid. Randolph And limber.The acting quality runs deep, including the bit players. Michael Rispoli is masterful as Spinner Dunn. And for sheer visual impact, the prize goes to Vincent Schiavelli. What would a lecherous, heroine-addicted clown, hired to assassinate another clown, look like? He would look like Buggy Ding Dong. You have to see him to believe it. You will burst out laughing.That the critics hated this movie brings up what I call the Bulworth effect, which I first noticed around 1998, when that awful movie came out. So, Bulworth is to movies what shoe leather is to filet mignon. But for the young Halle Barry, Bulworth would be unwatchable. However, it is politically correct, and that is the only possible explanation for the raves it got from critics.Death To Smoochy is politically very INcorrect. And that is the only possible explanation for the hammering it got from critics. If you have ever wondered why your own impressions of a movie differ so greatly from that of the critics, politics is the likely explanation. Movies like Death To Smoochy and Bulworth make it very clear that many of the critics are looking at the movies for something other than a great story and great acting. "},{"Title":"Out of the closet.. a little gem. And that's MAY contain..","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" No, I mean this movie not FILM is like one of those things you discover when cleaning out your closet. Maybe you didn't even recall ever having it, but a treasure of sorts.I wont go into any plot or meanings of them..just some observations1. Norton in NO way played this over the top or disinterested... he captured the character perfectly a pure idealist, neither really innocent or naive, nor stupid. He KNOWS what's what.. just wants nothing to do with it.2. DeVito plays his favorite role... a really nasty little conniver, so what's wrong with that? 2a. Robin Williams plays yet another variation of robin williams.. and is well cast. Much better than his low point Father's Day3. I'd seen Ms Keener before, but don't recall thinking, wow.. she's sexy! Well, she is.4. Maybe the TV show scenes were a takeoff on Barney.. but, guess what! There's a polish and wit and GOOD VIBE there that Barney never ever approached.. even in the silly little songs; like an order of magnitude better than the real thing. Hear what I'm saying this only reinforces why so much scorn is still thrown at Barney the Dinosaur, because the spoof, as often seen in Weird Al's takeoffs on MJ, is MUCH BETTER DONE!And yes... it is not a kiddie movie, it's an adult dark comedy and has language to match, but if you've ever run across one of these kid-show personalities off the set, you wont be at all surprised.There's only a FEW belly-laughs in the movie.. but, as others say, a smile all the way through. "},{"Title":"Are you okay? I don't know, I'm kind of f*cked up in general, so it's hard to gauge.","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Throughout the years of cinema, a certain dilemma has remained unresolved how to market a black comedy. Elusive to categorize, it remains equally difficult to articulate exactly what such films are offering, and to which demographic. Certainly such an obstacle arose when marketing Danny DeVito's Death to Smoochy. With a misleading trailer boasting a broad comedy Robin Williams vehicle, the film was greeted as a scornful box office failure that few seemed to know how to approach and proved miles away from what they had expected. Yet this reaction proves all the more disappointing considering the rare treat the film offers - one of a steadily decreasing few which genuinely subvert viewer expectations. While far from perfect, Death to Smoochy remains the sort of fundamentally bizarre yet gloriously daring picture which seldom makes it to theatres, offering a gleefully warped, macabre wit almost guaranteed to please those willing to take it for what it is.The fact that the word 'death' being present in the title of a mainstream comedy is a rarity should be indicative of exactly how offbeat and downright sinister the film is. Despite a sparkly visual palate of pastel colours, the film could hardly be more dark tonally, with its infusion of frequent brutal violence and sadistic, uncomfortable humour making it about the farthest thing away from the safe, mainstream comedy its trailer attempted to depict. Yet its shady sensibilities cannot possibly quench the film's manic, wickedly sadistic wit, and the enormously quotable screenplay delivers such a varied slew of humour that the viewer cannot help but consistently be caught by surprise. DeVito amplifies such an ambiance with bizarre, off-kilter camera-work and a continuous transitioning from satire to the deadly serious to goofy slapstick and back again, leaving the viewer uncertain when to roar with laughter or to cringe uncomfortably. In fact, the blurring between the two becomes poignantly indiscernible, with DeVito seemingly impishly suggesting that whether cinema makes us laugh or cringe, either way it does not deter our fascination with watching, and that perhaps the boundary becomes simply redundant in the end. Nonetheless, as fresh as such a fusion of the comedic and the grotesque may be, the lack of obvious prerequisites also results in Death to Smoochy suffering from certain design flaws. The film starts off as a devilish satire of network television, with Norton's sickeningly wholesome entertainer Sheldon Mopes thrust into the fish out of water figure in a sea full of greedy, merchandise obsessed execs. Yet about halfway through DeVito loses his pace, and the film begins to feel more like a chaotic jumble, continually stuffing in new characters and plot twists, and with at least three seeming climaxes uneasily leading into further narrative development. Similarly, the film's treatment of Robin Williams' vengeance obsessed TV host Rainbow Randolph remains equally indecisive. Perhaps due to Williams' star casting, DeVito appears to struggle with exactly what to do with the character, whether to situate him as protagonist or depraved quasi-antagonist. As such, Randolph appears uncomfortably stuck between the two, and the film's ensuing rocky focalization makes it harder for the viewer to maintain their emotional bearings. The addition of a rather conventional romantic subplot also feels somewhat out of place in so uniformly dark and vindictive a picture, making the third act feel all the more unnecessarily chaotic. Nonetheless, despite this mishmash of content, somehow DeVito's loopy pace and zany, twisted sense of humour never quite loses the audience even at its most imbalanced, but instead only becomes more bizarre (often appealingly so) without sacrificing the entertainment front. DeVito also delights in inverting the typical characters his stars would play, resulting in a deliciously unconventional tweaking of expectations. Despite the publicity hyping Williams, Edward Norton is the most firmly situated as the film's 'main character', which works, as Norton is unreasonably hilarious, superbly counteracting his usual intensity as charming yet irritatingly well intentioned children's entertainer Smoochy the Rhino, who goes out of his way to refuse merchandising money in favour of promoting organic, sugar free foods and respecting hostile step-parents on children's television. Norton is careful to keep the character crucially likable, even at his most simperingly moronic, crafting an enduring emotional centre and grounding the calamity of the film around him. Similarly, fans of Robin Williams' less family sanctioned stand-up act will be enthralled by his performance as unhinged Rainbow Randolph. Retaining his usual flair for colourful improvisation, Williams lets loose in a twisted, exceedingly dark fashion barely glimpsed before, and while he unquestionably rockets light years past being over the top, his slew of bitter, incensed, profanity-fraught rants are just about worth watching the film by themselves.Catherine Keener's credible charisma and warmth also help acclimatize a shaky character transition from nihilistically jaded producer to earnest, hopeful young woman, making the potentially weakest point of the film instead burst to life with a quirky spark. Danny DeVito himself delivers a familiar but still enjoyable lampoon of the greedy agent figure, and an early performance by TV comic Jon Stewart delivers a tantalizing taste of a gestating talent. The film also offers a collection of memorable character bits worthy of the Coen brothers, from Michael Rispoli's blustering, often incomprehensible lovable nitwit of a former boxer, Danny Woodburn's sardonic children's television actor, and an utterly hilarious Vincent Schiavelli as a narcoleptic, heroin addict assassin.While certainly not for all tastes, Death to Smoochy delivers a unique, daringly morbid and raucously hilarious product which manages to continually dodge expectations while remaining enjoyable. While its unfavourable reaction is perhaps typical of so unconventional a picture, such a rare delight deserves to be enjoyed and appreciated, flaws and all, and those willing to take in a different kind of comedy are unlikely to be disappointed.-8/10 "},{"Title":"Comedy?","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I picked this up from the video store not expecting much from it, but keeping an open mind because quite often underrated movies really surprise me. No luck here. I simply did not find it funny at all. I watched the entire movie with a straight face, occasionally checking the clock. For a dark satire this sure doesn't get very dark, I couldn't believe how tame the whole thing was. I found the comedy to be at the same level as a Disney film, only with F-words inserted. And yes, I got the satire and adult jokes. That doesn't mean they weren't tired and incredibly overused.So many big names! Robin Williams has pulled out the occasional flop (Flubber), Danny DeVito as well (see What's the Worst that could happen?), but I honestly didn't expect Edward Norton to sink this low. Time to change that theory. Now I can easily see why this went straight to the back of the weekly dvd shelf. "},{"Title":"You Know What To Do With The Hand Creme!","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadAll great comedy flows from situational or existential incongruence, just the sight of a children's television Icon, Rainbow Randolph, using rather unusual banter,You want your little bugar eater on TV? Then shut the F up and let me do the thinking. The movie is filled with the cut-throat world of children's television, as you know it really is, behind the placid, happy land surface. The movie is funny from the first frame, where Rainbow gets busted by the Feds for taking bribes for prime seating for the little darlings, through to my personal favorite, when Rainbow books his replacement at a Nazi rally. As Smoochie comes onto the darkened stage, he is leaving Rainbow with some lobotomized mantra, Rainbow muttersWhatever the hell that means you F'ing hippie,'he pushes him out onto the dais. Smoochie asks for the house lights to be brought up and it is three hundred brown and black suited Nazis. As the speakers blare, Deutschland, Deutschland Uber Alles, the press and police run in and bust him. Suffice to say, he loses his job the next day. The movie is filled with hilarious characters, remember, I am not a big DeVito fan, I loved War Of The Roses but detested Hoffa. This was his best effort, it is funny all the way through. There is an Irish gang led by Tommy, the fiery red headed woman, you don't want to say no to.She has a punch drunk relative you better book on your kid's show, when Mopes tries to refuse the gang surrounds him. Tommy says,Boys, I am feeling really upset right now, One answers,Who is it that is upsetting up Tommy? She says,I don't want to mention any names, Sheldon quickly agrees before losing many teeth. The most hilarious is the charity Parade of Hope, that is skimming the ice show, you better come through, trust me. When Sheldon tries to refuse, he is ejected from their limo with Fierstein intoning,As for the ice show, I suggest you start shopping for skates. The movie follows Rainbow's determination to regain his lost kiddie show, whatever it takes. Norton plays Mopes as a likable but painfully quixotic, hippie throwback. He doesn't mix well with the tough as nails producer who turns out to be a kiddie show groupie, sleeping with everybody in an outfit. She has some of the best lines in the show, the movie is replete with funny characters, witty sarcastic dialog; when placed in the context of children's programming, it increases the hilarity. Rainbow breaks onto the set, steals the cookies and replaces all of them with phallic shaped cookies. I am not a big William's fan but he is at his funniest here. The movie gets serious near the end with the killing of Spinner and the attempted killing of Sheldon. I won't spoil who rescues Sheldon but, after this, comes my favorite line. The header is second, it is spoken by Rainbow when Jon Stewart gives him a sample bag from a Rain Forest fund-raiser. I still love when Tommy gets Devito and Stewart together, before killing them,So, have you two traveled together before? DeVito evinces a look of realization of what's coming next. Played tongue in cheek, the majority of the violence is off camera. Keener gives her best performance in any movie; actors I never was wild about (Stewart, Fierstein, Williams) are great because the writing is so good. It definitely is not for children, no way. The language is rough with plenty of bloodless violence. The jokes often wander into the sexual activities of Keener and different kiddie stars that would traumatize little pee wees. For me, it is one of the funniest movies all the way through, the scenes I shared are my favorites, there are many equally great ones. Make sure you eat before watching this or somebody better know the Heimlich maneuver. A Great Comedy. Q.E.D. "}{"Title":"As A Director Danny DeVito Has A Good Sense Of Humor.","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent comedy film which can be enjoyed with your family and friends. Danny DeVito doesn't go overboard with the black comedy elements in the film and keeps it at a level for family viewing.This film stars DeVito along with notable actors Robin Williams and Edward Norton. The film is about Rainbow Randolph Smiley (Robin Williams), a happily corrupt children's television host, who is disgraced by an FBI sting for making deals with parents who want their kids on the show. He is replaced by the squeaky clean Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton) and his character, Smoochy the Rhino. Thus a feud starts between the embittered, ruthless Randolph and the pacifist Sheldon. Who will emerge victorious? See the film and find out.Both Robin Williams and Edward Norton put on a show that will leave you in side-splitting laughter. Danny DeVito has a darker role in the film as Burke Bennett who is an agent with connections to Burke and Merv Green the heads of the corrupt charity. Supporting actors Catherine Keener and Jon Stewart also put in good performances. Danny DeVito Films To See Romancing The Stone, Jewel Of The Nile, The War Of The Roses, Batman Returns, Renaissance Man (DeVito's best and most heartwarming film in my opinion), Twins, Throw Momma From The Train, Ruthless People(very good film). Robin William Films Mrs. Doubtfire, Jumanji, Hook, The Fisher King, Awakenings, What Dreams May Come, Good Moring Vietnam, Bicentennial Man, Insomnia, One Hour Photo, Jack. Edward Norton Films To See Red Dragon, Primal Fear, The Incredible Hulk(2008), American History X, The Italian Job, The Painted Veil. "},{"Title":"Williams vs Pink Rhino","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was hated by critics and bombed at the box office, but I actually liked this movie, It's my biggest guilty pleasures of all time. The story is about a puffy fascia rhinoceros. As Smoochy catapults to fame - scoring hit ratings and the affections of a jaded network executive Randolph makes the unsuspecting rhino the target of his numerous outrageous attempts to exact revenge and reclaim his status as America's sweetheart.The good things about this movie The movie is a dark comedy and to me that worked, because when you got a story about Robin Williams trying to kill or ruin a kid friendly pink rhino called Smoochy, you really can't take that seriously and the movie is aware of that and takes it like a joke. Edward Norton and Robin Williams both did great in this movie. Trying to beat each other to win the kids hearts by taking some dark turns. The thing that didn't work As I said before about the dark comedy and how it worked for me, well some scenes it lost that dark but funny tone and goes full serious at times. Some jokes didn't work for me and Danny DeVito directed this, now let me get something straight here; I don't hate Danny DeVito directing in this movie or any other movies that he did, his a good actor and a good director, but everybody can agree that most of his films allow on awkward close ups of actors looking straight into the camera or goofy and weird scenes with characters doing awkward stuff, all that is is this movie and let me tell you it's not pretty.Overall it's not a perfect movie but to me it's a lot of fun, but it's not for everybody, but if you want some cheesy, goofy fun than Smoochy is your film. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, and dark.","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film starts dark as the children's TV star Rainbow Randolph is shown taking a bribe to allow a child special status on his show in a sting operation... or rather, dark before that, with the emphasis on the sales of his likeness and candy style breakfast foods... or maybe just in the innuendos of the song he sings at the beginning... or dark when we watch a figure being beaten to death at the very opening.All of the above less than 5 minutes of screen time. This dark as the grave comedy just keeps getting darker and darker.WARNING With the loss of one of the stars by his own hand, this may be too dark for the fans of Mr. Williams. I thought I could take it. I was wrong. Too soon for me, but I will go back again.It is, however, as brilliant a piece of dark comedy ever made, and with his untimely loss, maybe some that ignored it then will find it now. Brutal, unflinching and bordering on bitter (but never sweet), this is a grand film for all involved. Read the cast names... yes, this one somehow got away from us. "},{"Title":"Dark and ridiculous fun","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are a fair number of negative reviews for 'Death to Smoochy.' Now, if a film has a title like that, it tells me that it's a 'cult film' made for a niche audience. So, I can only assume that mainstream moviegoers didn't think that much of it.If you're a fan of Robin Williams' quirky, light-hearted performances, then you may be disappointed. His role here is one of his darker, more serious ones (think 'One Hour Photo, only more openly psychotic). He plays a disgraced children's TV show presenter who vows - lethal - revenge on his successor - the mild-mannered and good-natured 'Smoochy' (his stage name), played by Edward Norton. Also, it's fair to say that, despite Robin Williams being billed as the 'star,' I was surprised at how much screen time was given to Edward Norton - really he should be billed as the star.There are mob hits, beatings, murder, blackmail and Nazis in this film - hardly the stuff of your average family comedy. Therefore, the humour is pretty black. It's also a satire - showing you the 'dark side' of something so allegedly pure as children's TV.If you like your movies dark, satirical and slightly over the top, then give this one a go. You won't forget the sight of gangsters performing a 'hit' on a giant, cuddly rhino in a hurry.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I signed in with my Facebook account and gave this movie a ten after checking out the movie's page and finding out that it has poor score. The movie is not like the comedies of today and I found myself loving it for what it is even though I am myself part of that new generation and myself have seen tons of those vulgar,grotesque going to extremes toilet humor type of comedies. I have to be objective that I have enjoyed some of those latter mentioned type of movies. Death to smoochy is great. The characters are fun, there is a very mature theme going along with the bonkers plot. Conversations are smart on the point and make sense, I guess that can be a turn off for a certain type of movie goer. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizingly Twisted Comedy","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death to Smoochy is one of the most unappreciated comedies of the last decade. When released, people hailed it to be absolutely god-awful. It topped Roger Ebert's list of the worst movies of 2002. It fell way under the radar, frequently aired on Comedy Central and then finally disappeared. Almost everyone involved in the production of this is ashamed for having released it. But why all the hate? Yes, this is a rather bizarre concept for a dark comedy and it changes the way you look at children's TV ever again. But more that often, its hilarious. Robin Williams delivers possibly his greatest performance as Randolph Smiley. He manages to capture a man whose bitter hatred grows to the point of insanity. Robin plays crazy in every comedy he does, why not actually make him actually crazy. Edward Norton is as charming as ever, especially when he's in that dopey purple rhino suit. Its a fine movie and I think a lot of people should give it a try. "},{"Title":"Ultimately a Victim of Bad Timing","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a very comical and heavily cynical look at a fictional side of the kids television show industry. It uses concepts of corrupt children's charities, degenerate kiddie show hosts, and predatory marketing techniques to smack around the commercialism of television shows that target kids.Unfortunately this movie came out only six short months after 9/11 - a tragedy that shook the world and made cynicism take a back burner for a desperate need for hope. Well ten years of political uselessness later, that cynicism is back and as strong as ever.Its a terrible shame this film was overlooked because this film is really enjoyable from start to finish. Its twisted, vulgar and charming all at the same time. Danny DeVito, Jon Stewart, Danny Woodburn, Edward Norton, Robin Williams, and the beautiful Catherine Keener all bring their A-Game to this feature and it works on nearly every level.Very few movies can make you cheer for the Irish mob.Final Grade A "},{"Title":"Funny as hell","Date":"16 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have been updating my movie knowledge of Ed Norton movies and came across this film that I'd never even heard of. Then I read some of the reviews and thought aah, this might be one of those really bad B-category craps but I watched it anyway. Well, first of all, this movie really is funny! Totally over the top, colourful, cheesy, sticky sweet mess of fun, black comedy and drama. I loved the characters, and Smoochy (Edward Norton) is absolutely adorable. He looks like he really enjoyed being this goofy guy in a rhino costume and he's having fun with it. The medical centre scene is so hilarious I had to watch it again and again, as well as the scene when he has to improvise in front of the kids. Brilliant. Hysterical. I loved every minute of this movie. Of course, it's just a sidelined little project, never became a blockbuster, and it does need a certain mood to be enjoyable, but it still got on my ultimate funny-movie top list. De Vito did a good job directing it, so well done! "},{"Title":"Dark comedy  with lack of thinness by actor-director Danny DeVito","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The picture follows a battle of clowns, one evil named Rainbow Randolph(Robin Williams)and one good named Smoochy(Edward Norton). Rainbow is the drunk star of a children spectacle but is fired over a racket scandal and substituted by the kind, cloying Smoochy. Ambitious exec(Catherine Keener)under direct orders her mean boss(John Stewart)hires to Smoochy from underground shows.This is a madcap and frenetic dark comedy with lots of humor though plenty of profanities, frantic situations, some of violence and good performances. It's a children show satire becoming vengeance-comedy with little fineness and subtlety and however some ugliness. Actors give vigorous acting, as top-notch Robin Williams, he makes a true recital, he puts faces, grimaces, dancing, leaping and overacting, but he's outstanding though some ranting. The authentic starring is Edward Norton, he sings, dances and plays magnificently. Furthermore, Vincent Schiavelli and Harvey Feirstein in sinister roles as mobsters and Michael Rispoli as a sympathetic mentally handicapped boxer turned clown. Jolly and lively musical score by David Newman fitting perfectly to spectacular music-shows for kiddies. Colorful cinematography, full of lights and shinning, by Anastas Michos. Director Danny DeVito doubles as a cunning agent. DeVito is a dark comedies expert, such as he proved in 'The war of Roses','Throw momma from the train' and 'Duplex'. The motion picture will like to Edward Norton and Robin Williams fans. "},{"Title":"Yankee Doodle Smoochy's Libretto","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The centerpiece is the homage to George M. Cohan -- Devito slaps us upside the head with this. Note Smoochy draped in the flag after accusations of fascism, and redemption through the Battle Hymn of the Republic you're really seeing Yankee Doodle Dandy.What it makes it so cinematically enjoyable is Devito's eye for establishing the pecking order in every relationship *visually*; great stuff there.It is all about itself how Devito sees Smoochy seeing the movie of his career as a musical on ice. An angel descends and crowns Norton; he is persecuted by midget devils with pitchforks and swastikas; Rispoli is given a ghostly farewell (set to Wagner and Puccini!) The problem here is Williams...not the one most people believe they know from three decades of movie goop. Those of us with longer memories know who he really is, and his fig leaf doesn't fool us...which is why the critical dupes didn't get it. A shame, on two levels. Not brilliant, but still satisfyingly dark. "}{"Title":"the dark side behind kids TVshows","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This hilarious dark comedy, directed by the genius Danny DeVito, shows the evil side behind cute and cuddly kids television programs and their lovable hosts. The film contains top-notch actors that just add to the greatness of the script.Don't be scared off when the movie starts off with singing and dancing from Robin Williams's character Rainbow Randolph, who in the following scene gets in trouble with FBI after accepting bribes and loses his television show.Network executives are quick to bring in a replacement kids program, headed by Edward Norton's character, Smoochy the Rhino. Smoochy is an innocent child entertainer who throughout the movie gets corrupted by the evils behind the child entertainment business.Along with the Irish-Mob being thrown in the mix, and a corrupted children's foundation called The Parade of Hope Foundation, everyone wants a piece of this up-and-coming children's entertainer, Smoochy the Rhino.With hilarious one liners thrown in everywhere in this film like Can you guess how many original compositions I have in the Smoochy songbook? Over 300, on subjects from the deliciousness of vegetables, to the importance of donating plasma. When we were kids and my brothers and I played Cowboys and Indians, I was always the Chinese railroad worker. Let's go prey and get sh-t faced. The more you watch this film, the more you take in the hilarious tiny details. I highly recommend one to rent or even buy this film because it never gets old, rather it gets better after every time you watch it. "},{"Title":"Not just great, NERD-CALIBER great!","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Don't get me wrong, I can see how the unimaginative dregs that hate this movie are coming from. It's very off-beat; more of a funny noir film than a black comedy. The audience is meant to identify with Sheldon Mopes (Ed Norton) as an outsider who discovers that children's television programming is more of a criminal enterprise akin to a 1930's era Mafia than what Sesame Street would have you believe.There are levels of complexity in the characters that most people who consider the likes of Scary Movie to be classic comedy will likely miss. It's easy to hate Mopes at first He is, after all, representative of the epitome of all hated kid TV mascots, Barney the Purple Dinosaur. He is more than he appears, however. Sheldon Mopes has a violent anger within him that finally threatens to erupt by the end of the film. Despite that, he's a genuinely good guy who is pushed to the brink by an industry insane with corruption. Robin William's Rainbow Randolph is a man miserable with his own corruption who shifts the blame for his position to Mopes simply because Smoochy inadvertently benefits from his downfall. Randolph's insanity eventually leads to a sort of impish super-villainy until he is ready to accept the blame himself. Catherine Keener plays the evil bitch beautifully again, until Mopes helps her to remember why she got into the business of children's entertainment in the first place (she seems a little delusional too; when she mentions that Harvey Firestein's character Marv Green grabbed her ass at a benefit dinner I had to say, yeah, right. Sure, Firestein's character isn't explicitly gay in the film but c'mon, it's Harvey freakin' Firestein). Danny DeVito is his usual charming self as the astoundingly belligerent Burke Bennet, a conniving rat who conspires to have his own client bumped off.While the production is amazing, and it is certainly so, it pales when compared to the amount of acting and comedy talent in this film. Though I will admit that John Stewart is wasted here as a witless straight man, there are nuances to the comedy that are hard to pick up on a single viewing. My favorite example is when Rainbow Randolph dupes Mopes into playing a Nazi rally to discredit him Williams shifts between no less than three accents including Scottish, Australian, and Irish. The fact that the characters (and many of the viewers who watch the film) don't pick up on this is to me one of the little joys (of many) of the film (another is Rainbow's theme song which is filled with sexual innuendo). Oh yeah, and Vincent Schiavelli is awesome as the extremely creepy Buggy Ding Dong, but then again he's always awesome.My one gripe (and it is a minor one) is the ice show at the end credits. It just seems a little forced.This is one of the most complete films I've seen in the last ten years, and is one of those rare comedies that I can bring myself to watch it again and again (like MP and the HG, Clerks, and other nerd-fests). If you get the humor you'll find a favorite for life. If you don't, well, go watch the newest Sandra Bullock/Hugh Grant rom-com train wreck. "},{"Title":"Great Lost Gem","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Once upon a time, Robin Williams was funny. No, really. Then he submerged himself in a quagmire of sentimental sludge. But with this scathing black comedy, which regrettably died a box office death in 2002 in the US, he rediscovered the knack, as a homicidal former kids' presenter who plots to kill his rhino-suited replacement, Ed Norton, reminding us that he doesn't just do dramas.Director Danny DeVito over-cranks the grotesque camera angles, but this combines spot-on satire of kids' TV and some funny set-pieces &#150; including Smoochy's inadvertent appearance at a Nazi rally. It deserved a better reception than it received.Bold and deeply messed-up, this is a great lost gem unjustly overlooked at the box office. Rediscover it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" We avoided seeing this movie in the theater simply because Roger Ebert, who is a very reliable (in our eyes) reviewer, just dumped on the film. We rented it today and thought it was the funniest movie we'd seen in a long time. If you like black comedy, do yourself a favor and rent this film. I suspect one factor that killed this movie at the box office is the title. Death to Smoochy just does not sound like an attractive flick. The poster was not attractive either. Kill Smoochy? Kids Show Hosts Happen? Maybe. They both are better than the final title. Suffice it to say that Robin Williams was absolutely in top form as the homicidal kids show host. The whole company successfully skewers the business tie-ins that kids' programming has in American society today. I just regret that it took so long for us to discover this gem, and I hope Danny DeVito keeps mining the black comedy territory. BTW, the only other film that we disagreed with Roger Ebert to this degree was Raising Arizona. It too was a great movie and we scratch our collective heads to figure out how RE got it so wrong. Sorry, Roger. "},{"Title":"An unaffecting mix of familiar comedy and serious thriller for William's new career path","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsSet in the (no doubt) cutthroat world of children's television,this is the tale of 'Rainbow' Randolph (Robin Williams),the nation's (America) favourite kids TV entertainer.....until he is busted by the FBI for taking payola.He subsequently loses his job,and discovers he is to be replaced.Hard faced network executive Nora Wells (Catherine Keener) is assigned the task of finding said replacement,and eventually discovers it in the shape of Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton,in a seemingly permanent mime-like facial expression throughout) a kindly,well to do man who later comes to be known as Smoochy the Rhino.Smoochy is pretty much an overnight success,much to the anger and bitterness of the dejected Randolph,who plots numourous ways to exact his petty revenge fantasies.As his success continues to grow,however,Sheldon finds himself forced to reveal his principles and ideals as the unfeeling Nora tries to force him to endorse crass,tacky Smoochy merchandising and product brands.In his disillusionment,Sheldon finds himself drawn to the lure of Burke Bennitt (Danny De Vito,also directing) a rival exec who can seemingly guide him in a more positive light.But,as his success continues to grow and grow,everyone soon seems to want in on his act and,in the bewildering disarray that follows,his friends and enemies emerge as not all they seem.This is a film that's been held back for so long now I became almost certain it was going to go straight to video.Quite why,I didn't know.Sure,De Vito has been on a downward career trajectory lately (directing wise,anyway) with the likes of What's the Worst That Could Happen? on his CV,but with an A list cast like that?!?What are the odds?Alas,a disappointing Stateside box office performance is probably not the reason for Death to Smoochy's so far none-existent UK release,as much as it's due to the dissolvement of UK based film company Film Four.However,having seen the film,I really can't say that if I was the man in charge of such decisions,I wouldn't have sent it STV on account of it's quality.This is a dreary,meandering and,worst of all,rarely funny tale with no soild foundational core.The plot is incoherent,and really lacks any sort of substance at all.The characters are totally inconsistent,and,probably on account of the the hazily written script,are never featured at the right intervals or disappear for long stretches of time to prevent any of them (probably with the exception of Smoochy) from having the lasting impact that they might have had.There are also some rather tasteless moments.Shameless indecent exposure to children is something no one is ever probably going to accept,let alone find funny.Neither will Nazi worship by a lot of people.Norton,being the extremely talented actor he is,adapts to his comedy role very well and is able to play off quite impressively with Williams,the master of the manic.Doing his wild,whacky impressions and zany prancing,he is as much a joy to watch as ever.Another good point might be that some of the soundtrack is pretty memorable.Despite this,however,Williams fails to blend his standard wild mugging in with his new found serious actor path,De Vito fails to guide his moving train with any cohision and,despite the irrisistible cast line up,if in the (unlikely!?) event this never washes up on these shores well,to be honest,you've missed much of a lot of nothing.** "},{"Title":"Death to Watch","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ugh, Danny DeVito...as a fellow New Jerseyite, I am embarrassed.  You took a good cast, a conceivably good premise, and made a stinking rathole of a movie, and probably spent a ton of money in the process.Its not funny, its not insightful, its not anything that needed to be put on film and shared with anyone.  I did laugh once, at something Robin Williams said, and I'd bet it was improvised.  2/10.  "},{"Title":"awful, just awful","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most unfunny, boring, comedies I have sat through in a long time.Any attempt at humour is so obvious as to be unimportant.  This is one of those movies where the concept is so good that people forget you need to write a decent story to back it up.Edward Norton is badly miscast as the lead character.  As good an actor as he is, he just is never believable.   He, along with everyone else, never really creates real characters.I heard mixed things about this movie before renting it.  I heard it was terrible.  But then I heard people say they really liked it.   I should have believed the box office on this one.  The theatre going public smelled a turkey when they saw one.Avoid this one at all costs. "},{"Title":"Uneven and unfunny","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wretched attempt at dark humor is a complete waste of time. Edward Norton seems to base his character Smoochy on two Tom Hanks films. The adult/boy in Big and of course Gump. Robin Williams is up to his recent annoying performances as all he does here is scream at the top of his lungs. The big surprise here is the fact that Danny DeVito directed this tripe. DeVito is a good director but the material has no appeal at all. Who would find this appealing? Then they try and end the film on a sappy upbeat note. I guess the problem with the film is that it wants to be a dark comedy but has a traditional heart at its core. Someone needed to make up their mind! "},{"Title":"Terrible Waste of Time","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe that no one involved in this travesty ever had a sense that it was all going terribly wrong.  With the talent involved, you'd think someone would say, this just isn't very funny.  I know others have said this is hilarious black comedy and that was what tricked me into giving this a try--I wish I had my rental money back.  This is just awful--easily one of the worst movies of the last twenty years.  Everyone is trying so hard to give this script some life, playing it straight, that it never comes to life.  The only chuckles I got were from watching some of the outtakes and deleted scenes on the DVD.  This whole thing is in such bad taste from start to finish that it's a puzzle why some of the deleted scenes were deleted.  One, in which a stream of blood flies through the air after Harvey Fierstein's character is decapitated, would have been perfectly in keeping with the bad taste of the rest of the film, as would several others.  Avoid this like the plague, unless you have a seriously deranged sense of comedy. "},{"Title":"technicolor vomit","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was abyssimal.  It was one of the few movies that actually pained me to watch.  Don't get me wrong, I love Edward Norton, and don't mind Robin Williams, but never before have I actually wanted to destroy all memory of something.  There is absolutely nothing good about the film.  Watch it and you may just stop watching movies altogether. "}{"Title":"Just watch the trailer","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I saw the trailer for Death To Smoochy, I thought it looked hilarious. I went on the website and everything, I got really excited. This seemed like a promising, very funny movie. Then when I actually saw it...it wasn't good at all. It was stupid. I can't understand how a movie with such a great cast and a director who has proved he's the king of black comedies could be so disappointing. To me, at least.Here's where my problem is The parts with Rainbow Raindolph trying to sabotage Smoochy are hilarious. I admit that. But the whole plot about the mob, and the 'reality' behind children's TV shows is just retarded. What the hell kind of satirical statement is that? It's sort of funny to think, hey, what if the makers behind Sesame Street are really insane drug addicts with ties to the mob? and things like that, but Death To Smoochy takes that idea too far. It would be a lot funnier if it was just about Rainbow Randolph VS. Smoochy. I'd recommend just watching the trailer for this one. I'm not sure exactly how long the actual movie was, but however long it was it felt TOO long. The trailer gets all the best humour of the movie in just 2 minutes.My rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"The only thing worse than Barney is Smoochy...","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was reading through the numerous positive reviews for this film and I find it amazing that different people can watch the same movie and get totally different things from it.  I will give you that it points out that Barney and such may have been started for a greater good but then get thrown into the gutter for profits, but I didn't need this movie to show me that, it is obvious.  This movie has a stellar cast, a decent director with a track record, but fails miserably at being FUNNY.  Yeah, I got a chuckle out of the step-dad song, but one chuckle does not make a movie.Let's start with the positives.  Edward Norton is Smoochy and surprisingly handles the role well.  He seemed to take the character he played throughout Primal Fear and turned him into a guy who wants to change the world for the better.Catherine Keener is the girl, who is all about the money until Smoochy walks into her life.  I like Keener, who was wasted in her role, but did a good job with the part she was given.There are your positives, now to the negatives (I don't think IMDB gives me enough space to truly handle them all, so I will condense them)Jon Stewart's role was pathetic and his acting was as bad.  The scene with Williams and him in the car was just disturbing, and he brought nothing to the table.Danny Devito tried like always, but I don't know if it was a problem with directing himself, but his performance seemed flat and his direction...Robin Williams tried TOO HARD TO BE FUNNY.  His character was horribly written and lacked the depth that was necessary to create the illusion of caring for his down-on-his-luck Rainbow (unlike One Hour Photo, where his performance was perfect).All the rest of the cast stunk up the joint, but I really don't think it was from lack of trying, I think the material just didn't merit this movie to be made.  I mean the script has Irish mobsters, clowns, midgets, a drugged out hitman who was an ex-children's show host, a character named Rainbow, a character named Smoochy, a charity organization doing mob-like tactics, a retarded former prizefighter who rings a bell, and Nazis.  It was not funny at all.  It was not insightful, unless you didn't know that people (including those behind children's shows) try and make money.  It smelled of a Shakes the Clown rip-off, and anyone who has seen that movie knows that a rip-off of that movie has to stink (especially Mr. Williams, who was in both).I don't blame Mr. Devito, I think he directed a movie made with a horrible script as well as could be expected.  His choice to take it very dark was the only way to salvage an absolute mess.  It didn't work, but at least he tried.The real problem for me is that Barney is ultra-annoying and should be an easy target to lampoon.  This movie instead became as annoying as Barney and on top of that offensive to downright obscene in parts and it couldn't make me laugh.  The entire ending ice-capades sequence was so over-the-top (not the credits one which was even MORE over-the-top, but the actual ice show) it just made you want to scream in disgust that someone greenlighted this piece of trash.  Tack on the credits sequence which screamed FILLER, and this movie just overstays it's welcome.  Actually I think I should have just shut it off after the first half-hour because it wasn't going to get any better.If you actually liked this drivel, Hollywood has a track-record of making these types of movies ten times more often than a really good movie, so you are in luck.  I can't believe I agree with Roger Ebert, this movie was horrible and I am in shock that this movie is averaging a 6.6 on IMDB. That shows you how bad movies have become, but I gave this movie what it deserved a 1 out of 10.  DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME, life is too short.  If I can save one person from wasting time watching this film, this review has been worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Permanently in my top ten comedies of all time","Date":"2 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the first time I've reviewed a film, I thought this was a great one to begin with. Im not sure how or why I missed this movie the year of its release. I don't remember ever seeing it playing at the cinema.Robin Williams, Edward Norton and Danny Devito?? Are you kidding me? So in saying that, when I did stumble upon it a few years ago, after first viewing i wasn't convinced i totally 'got it' in regards to the dark humor. I knew I missed something. Second viewing however, I realized it was a comedic gem, with subtle humor all the way through, and some outright hilarious scenes that are one of a kind, perfectly executed, and great acting. Robin Williams is a kids TV host and character that loses his job, for taking bribes off parents that want their kids on the show. So he gets canned, loses everything, goes nuts, everyone rejects him. Ed Norton, a rehab motivational guitar playing nice guy, gets his job as the Smoochy character, and Robin Williams wants revenge. Robin Williams plays the role of the mildly insane bad guy perfectly, just hilarious and unpredictable. The 'cookie' scene has got to be one of the greatest scenes ever. The restaurant mascot,owned by the Irish mob, is named Spinner, and is a very funny ex- boxer thats punch drunk,and every scene he is in just makes me laugh every time. All in all, great writing, great acting, and a very clever and hilarious take on the corruption in big business, but the first time I've seen it based around children's TV! I give this a solid 8, for repetitive value, uniqueness, and great writing and directing. If you have a clever sense of humor you will smile for a while after watching this movie..Enjoy! "},{"Title":"All is not well in Smoochyland...","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have watched this movie four times by now, and it still keeps on being funny. And there is just something uniquely odd about the comedy in the movie which makes Death to Smoochy a fantastic comedy movie.The story told in Death to Smoochy is just hilarious. It is about a vindictive former children show star, Rainbow Randolph (played by Robin Williams) who seeks revenge on Smoochy, the new star who replaced his time slot on the network TV. Smoochy (played by Edward Norton) is a gullible person unfamiliar with the way of running children's TV.There are tons of hilarious situations throughout the entire movie, and they are well-played by the acting talents, and also accompanied by funny dialogue. The characters are colorful - literally and physically. And they all have very real and lovable qualities. I especially love how Rainbow Randolph's appearance becomes more and more ravaged throughout the time.Death to Smoochy is, in my opinion, one of Robin Williams best movies.There is an impressive ensemble of talents in this fine comedy, and people deliver where it counts.If you are not already familiar with Death to Smoochy, then it is a movie well-worth sitting down to watch. Great fun and laughs all around. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant.","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is remarkable. This is a film that requires multiple viewings. There is a lot of symbolism in this film that most people miss. For example, in the boardroom scene when Sheldon introduces his new agent (Danny Devito), observe the way Mr.Norton's character is framed. He appears to have a halo around him, as he sits at the long narrow table. Now observe Mr. Stewart's character- similar framing, but his 'halo' is red and sinister. The messianic undertones are far from subtle in this movie,but the film's true intent is left purposely vague. Are they ironically comparing children's TV hosts to a modern day Jesus? Or is there another layer of metaphor? Either way, this film is infinitely entertaining. I disagree with the assertion that it's a black comedy-it's dark, and oddly funny, but mainly, it's art. It defies genre and popularity polls. This is one of those movies that rewards attentive viewers.This is also a great performance by Robin Williams. If you don't like this movie, perhaps you would prefer to watch a different Robin Williams movie-such as Old Dogs. Cretin. "},{"Title":"Loved every sleazy minute of this excellent black comedy","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Danny Devito's Death To Smoochy is the epitome of mean spirited, acid tongued black comedy, and I love every sleazy, delightfully offensive goddamn minute of it. It's incredibly underrated, and don't believe for a second the bad mojo about it. It's an all star pisser that fires on its alcoholic, manic depressive cylinders for its entire running time, and doesn't let up with the demented antics for a minute. Robin Williams plays dirtbag kids TV show host Rainbow Randolph like a bat out of hell on crack. He's a force of fast talking nature in the role, dominating every scene with a gleeful scuzzy, lovable nastiness that's just wonderful. When he's fired for being a scumbag, the ratings obsessed manager (Jon Stewart of all people) replaces him with upstart fool Smoochy The Rhino, aka Edward Norton. Norton throws himself knowingly into the wicked comedy and gives us a naive, vegan, borderline retarded sap, and owns every minute. Catherine Keener plays the slutty network recruiter with her typical scary sass and underlying warmth, with a slutty side (she likes to make it with the hosts when they're in costume). Randolph then does everything in his power to sabotage Smoochy, going to some shocking, perverted lengths. This is a full on, risky, extremely R rated comedy and that could be why it was so hated on. Don't listen to a word of naysaying. It's an absolute riot. Devito, who has a god given gift for these mean spirited comedies, shows up as a sleazeball agent. There's awesome work from Vincent Schiavelli, Robert Prosky, Pam Ferris and Harvey Fierstein as well. If pitch black comedy is your thing, then check out this rager that would give Barney and Big Bird nightmares. "},{"Title":"Unique and wacky, but not enough laughs","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" (53%) It's no real mystery why this failed financially. Just look at that DVD cover, doesn't look much like an R rated black comedy featuring criminals and murder now does it? This is very much a mixed bag of dark humour intermixed with kid friendly fluff that does have some quite fun contrast, but the gags aren't as plentiful, or as good, as this really needs to properly satisfy. Robin Williams has a good proportion of the laughs, but he is a bit underused here, while Norton's character is just a bit too goody-goody to be a relatable person. There are some fans of this out there, and I can see why as it does have appeal in its talented cast and quite bizarre sense of humour, but a universal comedy for the masses this ain't. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Awful That It Is Fun To Watch","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Danny DeVito steps behind the camera for this darkly funny satire that combines elements of Barney and Friends with the real-life Pee-Wee Herman scandal while recalling the director's previously twisted black comedies Throw Momma From the Train and The War of the Roses in this film Death to Smoochy.Robin Williams stars as Randolph Smiley, a popular children's show host known professionally as Rainbow Randolph. Dismissed from his beloved job when he's caught taking payola, Randolph becomes increasingly mentally unhinged and the target of his delusional revenge fantasies is Sheldon Mopes, otherwise known as Smoochy, the fuchsia rhino character that has replaced him and soared to national popularity. Randolph soon learns that his ex-girlfriend and network executive Nora Wells is sleeping with Sheldon, so he sets out to kill Smoochy, egged on by an unexpected ally corporate president Marion Frank Stokes, who should be profiting from Smoochy's rise to fame, except for the fact that he and his cronies are unable to control the idealistic Sheldon's on-air agenda.The talent involved can't save a script that has nowhere to go with its promising premise.Death to Smoochy is often very funny, but what's even more remarkable is the integrity of DeVito's misanthropic vision.I'm sure that some country, maybe France or something, will hail this as a work of genius, because it is so incredibly awful.But nevertheless,Robin Williams' manic energy is put to perfect use in this amusing and twisted comedy.And Edward Norton never fails to deliver. Overall,it is still a good view only if one does not held high expectations for its awfulness is what makes it a must-see. "},{"Title":"You Can't Change The World But You Can Make A Dent","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was a lot better than the final destination or final destination 4 do not see that movie it sucks. but death to smoochy is awesome. rainbow Randolph is kicked off of his time slot for his show and is replaced by smoochy the rhino who has never done a bad thing in his life. Randolph does anything to get him kicked off the air like taking him to a neo Nazi rally and the famous cookie scene. so definitely check this movie out for some laughs.Rated R for language and sexual humor 35 uses of the F-word 1hr 50min/110min****/**** "},{"Title":"Lots of wasted potential","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Who knew that kids entertainment was such a cut-throat world? Well, maybe it isn't, but Danny DeVito sure thinks it is in his darkly comic film Death to Smoochy. It is about an idealistic purple rhino named Smoochy, created by Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton) who replaces another star, Rainbow Randolph (Robin Williams) after Randolph gets busted for a bribery scandal. Sheldon strives to make big changes in the world of children's television and he wants to keep all of his business squeaky clean. But everyone else tries to thwart his idealism, opening up a world of dog-eat-dog scandals. The film tries to be outrageous as possible and unfortunately misses the mark.Death to Smoochy has a great premise. Taking such a loving and colorful medium like kids television and then adding such a dark twist is a hilarious idea. This thought satisfies all of our adolescent fantasies of disproving the lovey-dovey side of Barney. It harps on the thought that maybe there was a darker side behind the scenes of Sesame Street. It is hilarious adult satire. But, as always, the best ideas receive the poorest executions. Death to Smoochy falls flat in its spoofing of the world of kids television with a mafia like twist. The film starts out great and it cruelly tricks you into believing you are about to watch an ingeniously clever satire. But the film then starts to move to a more narrow and clich road until it completely falls apart in the end. Death to Smoochy attempts to create complex conspiracies and scandals all through the Barney-like medium. But the film loses control of itself and goes too far. When the dust finally settles, a plethora of plot holes open up and we see just how poorly this story is constructed. It gets too ridiculous to enjoy by the end, losing the clever satire and falling to mindless comedy.But Death to Smoochy isn't all bad. Danny DeVito directs in a very cartoony way that is amusingly entertaining throughout. The film also boasts all kinds of vibrant colors and exuberant set pieces that ironically contrast the darkly humorous tone of the film. The characters do the same thing. The first character we are introduced to is Rainbow Randolph and his multi-colored sparkling vest as he dances, surrounded by lollipops and rainbows. Then we meet the real Rainbow Randolph who is a foul mouthed, deranged drunkard that Robin Williams portrays excellently. The film delivers an all star cast that do a great job, but in the end are wasted potential. We are delivered the comedic stylings of everyone from Williams, to DeVito himself, and even Jon Stewart who I won't call a great actor but as a huge fan of The Daily Show I couldn't help but enjoy seeing him in this movie. However, these high points of Death to Smoochy don't save it from being a very weak film.Had there been a little more thought put into Death to Smoochy's plot it could have been an incredible comedy. It has an incredibly original premise that bears a world of potential, but this film leaves all that potential on the side and instead goes for a very lackluster plot. It's a shame to see such great actors give it their all in this film, only to have their effort tattered by the weak storyline and the plot holes so big you drive an eighteen wheeler through them. I laughed and I was entertained by Death to Smoochy but it frankly isn't a very good film. "}{"Title":"Great casting, just not a great black comedy","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The idea of this movie is pretty creative, but besides that there really isn't anything positive about this movie besides Edward Norton being in it. He is a great actor and enjoyed some of the films he was in, in fact he is one of my favorite actor. In fact the main reason why I decided to watch this movie is because of Edward Norton, and already knowing about the plot revolving around the rivalry between Ed and Robin Williams made me want to watch it even more. But for the most part was let down, it just went too much in the narrow and predictable direction. The start of the movie began pretty well though, but besides that I found the plot to be pretty dull. It wasn't even smart, clever or witty in anyway, although I wished it could have been, mostly it's a wasted potential of a movie. It did have a good message though and it did have it's moments although very few. Overall it really isn't a good black comedy and hardly has any funny parts in it. On a main positive note, the casting was brilliant but that is about it, there is little to no elements that grabs the attention.4.8/10 "},{"Title":"One of Robin Williams' best comedy movies","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw Death To Smoochy I was skeptical. After all, it seemed like a B movie to me. Once I watched it, I realized that I had seen one of the best Robin Williams comedy movies ever done. Quite simply - he is brilliant. Williams plays Rainbow Randolph, a kid's show host who is fired for taking bribes. The studio demands he be replaced with someone squeaky clean. Enter Sheldon Mopes (Norton) as Smoochy the Rhino, a character so sugary sweet that diabetics should be careful watching him.Smoochy immediately becomes a hit, much to the ire of the now defamed Rainbow Randolph. Bitter and angry, he makes it his mission to screw over Smoochy and get himself back on TV. Williams is perfect for this role, and handles it with a quirky glee that makes him a joy to watch. He looks like he's having fun the entire movie, whether being beaten senseless by the Irish mob or dancing in the streets when Smoochy is taken off the air.Toss in Harvey Fierstein as the head of a crooked charity, DeVito as the scheming manager, and Jon Stewart as all around toad Marion Stokes and this movie is complete. My only complaint, if you can call it that, is that the ice show scenes seem to drag out a little, but otherwise this movie is a comedic masterpiece.Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Big Bird, I hope your'e looking over your shoulder...","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If all children's programing is like this behind the scenes, I want a job !!! I thought Death to Smoochy was the funniest thing I've seen in a long time... And the funniest I've seem Robin in a while. While this is not Sesame Street You get the feeling that if it was, Burt and Ernie would be outed, Oscar would carry a switchblade, and Big Bird would be packing a 9mm. And Spinner? He was so special, it hurt when he bought it, even though I was laughing my butt off. Good performances all around, but I think the only reason Harvey Firestien was in this, was as a favor to or for Robin Williams. He was wasted in this role. It should have went to an actor without that much skill. 8 out of 10 ! and a new DVD in my collection! "},{"Title":"Less fuschia than coal black","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This wicked trashing of children's television tanked at the box office but may well become a cult classic thanks to the crisply sardonic script by Adam Resnick and the acting of two top-drawer players, Ed Norton & Catherine Keener.  Norton is a goody-two-shoes kiddy entertainer, Keener a coldhearted witch of a producer at KidVid, the Nickelodeon knock-off of this film.  Robin Williams almost --but not quite-- goes over the top as a sleazeball former star whose timeslot Norton's sickeningly-sweet plush rhino character (Smoochy think Barney with an acoustic guitar) has taken over.  He's obsessed with destroying this decent guy's life & career in a variety of despicable ways.  Pam Ferris, who stole the show from director Danny Devito in another minor classic he directed, Matilda, gives great support as a tough & foul-mouthed Irish mob leader whose brain-dead (but lovable) ex-boxer brother Spinner (Michael Rispoli) becomes a part of the Smoochy show.  Absolutely not for children, but definitely for their parents, particularly those sick of those ooey-gooey kiddie-show hosts they know are full of beans. "},{"Title":"The soft underbelly of children's television","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Director Danny DeVito uncovers the soft underbelly of children's television in this dark comedy starring Edward Norton and a manic Robin Williams. This is a mean spirited piece of work, so dark and profane you have to give Mrs. Doubtfire and the guy from Taxi credit for making it work. With a lesser cast and without a steady hand behind the camera this could have turned into an unredeemable mess. Instead DeVito and cast churn out a comedy that does something unusual, they remain likeable &#150; particularly Williams playing against his recent family-man image &#150; while delivering unpredictable laughs for those who like their humor with a mean streak. Maybe the `Posterboy for Bad Taste' Tom Green should study this movie before he writes his next screenplay. "},{"Title":"Rude, crude, hilarious","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It doesn't surprise me that many people did not like this movie. Any movie that compares Captain Kangaroo to Jesus is going to get into trouble. Not to mention the line Big junkies come from little junkies.The film has a couple of flaws some of the pacing in the film is off so that scenes that should be snappy drag, and we are never entirely sure why the spirulina loving Smoochy Edward Norton gets the hots for Nora though one could argue that Catherine Keener has never looked better in a film.Danny DeVito was depressed by the poor reception this film got, but eventually he will have the last laugh; like Used Cars, another forgotten gem, it is a comedy satire that will stand the test of time.The painfully earnest Sheldon Mopes, played by Ed Norton, and his kiddy Rhino act hits the big time when Rainbow Randolph, in one of Robin Williams' best performances, implodes. Little does Sheldon know that he is seen by the children's television network as its new cash cow -- I mean rhino -- and not the second coming of Captain Kangaroo. In an amusing twist, Sheldon is saved from the bad guys not by the forces of good, but by the even badder guys. Glorious moments abound Robin Wiliams and Jon Stewart together be sure to watch the outtakes!.Needless to say, this is not a film for anyone who is not yet past puberty.  "},{"Title":"A comedy based around an indictment of today's children's shows on TV.","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Danny DeVito's track record as a director isn't all that great, with results like `Throw Mama From the Train' marking his performance.  However, this movie is one of DeVito's better works, not necessarily due to his directing but because of actors who play the three main characters (Ed Norton, Robin Williams, Catherine Keener).The movie revolves around a children's show on a network named KidNet. `Rainbow Randolph' (Robin Williams) plays the main character on the TV show and is the adulated star.until he gets caught accepting bribes from parents who want to ensure better placement of their child/actors on the stage.Randolph is quickly fired and Frank Stokes (Jon Stewart), the producer of the show, is directed by the corporate heads to find a replacement whose ethics is beyond reproach.  He decides on a relatively unknown bit character called Smoochy, who is played by Sheldon Mopes (Ed Norton) and orders his assistant Nora (Catherine Keener) to sign him.  Nora, barely hiding her jadedness, gets Sheldon to agree to star in KidNets children's show, with him playing Smoochy, a creature of Sheldon's creation that looks like miscegenation between a rhino and Barney.  Sheldon, being a nave, politically correct altruist, doesn't seem to realize what he's getting into - he expects the show to be a platform for him to promote worthwhile values to his viewers, the children.  Norton plays the naivet part well, much like his performance as the stuttering murderer with multiple personalities in `Primal Fear'.  He portrays a look of innocence with his eyes and body language, as someone who is gullible and innocent, yet good of heart. Sheldon does not expect to encounter the crass commercialization of children's TV nor of the various unseemly characters who want to profit from the TV show thru kickbacks and graft.  He is shocked at what really goes on behind the scenes at a children's show.Meanwhile, Randolph, who is now destitute after being fired by KidNet, goes off the deep end. Upon learning of Smoochy replacing `Rainbow Randolph', Randolph's jealousy of this usurper transforms him into a raving maniac fixated on destroying Smoochy's career and getting his old job back on the children's show.   With his strong and sometimes contorted facial expressions, his verbal rapidity, and his demented wit, Williams does a very good job portraying the unbalanced, obsessive psychotic bent on getting back at Smoochy.Catherine Keener also adds to this movie as Nora, the cynical and jaded assistant producer.  This role is perfect for Keener's trademark, a personality of sarcasm and surliness that gives her character an edge. She fights Sheldon's attempts to de-commercialize the children's show, at one point locking him out of a meeting room so he cannot complain about the show pushing new `Smoochy' products to the kids.  Sheldon describes her jadedness by accusing her of viewing children as `dollar signs with pony tails'.Nora clashes with Sheldon about the direction of the show throughout most of the movie.  Sheldon wants to redefine the purpose of the show to be one that educates children and espouses values like sharing while Nora and the rest of the staff are cynical enough to realize that the show's main purpose (and main source of revenue) is to promote Smoochy-related products that KidNet sells.  This becomes an indictment of today's children shows on TV.  Nora doesn't believe in Sheldon's good heart  - she's too cynical to believe that Sheldon is really that nave and altruistic; she's seen too many character stars who had professed to care about the welfare of children only to sell out when the price was high enough.Other stars, like Danny DeVito, play peripheral parts; DeVito plays a slimy agent named Burke Bennett, who is in cahoots with others interested in using the TV show for profit by unethical means.  He plays that part well - when was the last time DeVito didn't play a shady and distrustful character? Another question why wasn't he in `Lord of the Rings' playing the role of one of the trolls?Harvey Fierstein also plays a minor part as the head of a syndicate that uses a charity as a dummy front to make money.  He is in cahoots with Bennett and Burke in a plan to make some money by associating his charity with Smoochy's show.  It's obvious Fierstein took this part in this movie to break out of his typecast, which is that of an effeminate, gay male with a husky voice.  He does a good job acting as the head gangster in the beginning, using his deep voice to convey a sense of threat.  But as the movie goes on, his character talks more and more and his effort to hide his effeminate mannerisms become less effective - by the end of the movie, the change in the pitch of his speech give him away as a gay male and that detracts from his effort to portray a cold, ruthless leader of organized crime.There is also a female head of an Irish gang named Tommy (Pam Ferris) who intimidates Sheldon into giving a role for her cousin Spinner Dunn (Michael Rispoli), a once-famous boxer who took too many blows to the head and is suffering the consequences.  She plays a part in the outcome of the story.You can see the direction this movie will take and the 2nd half of it is anticlimactic.   The bad guys' plot fails, the good guys win, Randolph's rivalry with Sheldon is resolved, Nora's cold heart is reignited by Sheldon's real and virtuous behavior, and Sheldon is able to keep his principles in the midst of crass commercialization so prevalent in today's children's shows.  A sappy ending, quite predictable, but still a funny movie nonetheless, especially due to Robin Williams' performance. "},{"Title":"what is wrong with people these days","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From reading all the previous user comments, mostly negative from what i can tell, i've come to the conclusion, that not many people have much of a sense of humour, not intending to offend anyones intelligence or anything. Death To Smoochy was one of those chance meetings with a film, in which it draws you in and kicks you in the bum by being so unpredictable. Seeing that Robin Williams and Ed Norton are the main stars i hoped Smoochy would be a good film, and i was not at all disappointed. The film opens with a montage of what is to be expected, colour, vibrancy, comedy but with a dark, violent edge in the world of childrens television. We are then shown Rainbow Randolph (williams) and co. in their tv show. Turns out randolph is a shady character looking for some extra cash or 'ass-wipe money'. He's caught out and that's where Smoochy (norton) steps in. But Rainbow Randolph aint a happy chappy bout that one!Despite what people have said, Death To Smootchy is one crack up of a film. I've sat through films like Dumb and Dumber, get shorty, meet the parents etc. the apparent Comedies of the year and hilariously funny films and have barely cracked a smile, not to say i have no sense of humour, it's just too much hype, and terrible scripts, but Smoochy had me in hysterics, from start to finish, brilliant movie, danny de-vito should be extremely proud of this effort, it might not be the critical/financial hit it deserves to be, but Smoochy is probably the best american film i have ever seen!Remember friends come in all sizes!  "},{"Title":"A dumb movie,but a very fun time","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie expecting it to be one of the best movies of 2002.It turned out to be very disappointing...I'm not saying that it was bad I just expected more.Its a comedy and trys to hard to be serious.When your at the video store and have a choice between two Robin Williams movies Death to Smoochy or Good Will Hunting,go with Good Will Hunting but if your looking to have a good time go with Death to Smoochy. "},{"Title":"This is an odd little film. It's funny, but in an off-center kind of way.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's funny, but in an off-center kind of way. If you found Fight Club funny (which I thought it was in parts), then you'll probably find this movie funny as well. Not that they are the same in context, just that their humor is similar in the oblique way at which they approach it.This is clearly a dark comedy that envelopes itself into a style that is much like the children's television shows they produce. In fact, I'd venture to say that the style of this film is almost comic book in nature. The lighting is very stark and solid in it's choice of colors and the characters are almost ripped from the pages of a Dick Tracy comic book, albeit a more modern one.Robin Williams gives a very funny performance as a homo-repressed over-the-top children's TV host and delivers his comedy in his characteristic rapid fire delivery. It's classic Robin Williams. Edward Norton shows us yet another side to his character acting skills as a meek and mild, cleaner than clean wannabe children's television host. His opening scene performing at a heroin clinic is just classic, Let's face it. Big junkies come from little junkies. We gotta nip this in the bud, Burke!. Yet Norton plays Smoochy with a bit of a hidden dark edge that keeps you thinking he's going to pop at any moment. It just keeps the energy of the film always at a high rev.Overall, Death To Smoochy is Mr. Rogers, meets The Simpsons, meets Ren and Stimpy. It's a farcical romp through a very distorted view of children's television that will have you laughing in that fun, but un-comfortable way. Especially when you hear Smoochy sing...Smoochy Singing He slams the door He stomps his feet He sends me to bed with zilch to eat But my stepdad's not mean he's just adjusting.Smoochy Speaking So you see, kids, a stepfather is just like a new puppy. He needs love and care. Remember though, if your stepdad is EVER abusive towards YOU or MOMMY, what's the magic numbers?Kids 9-1-1!Smoochy Thaaaaaaat's right!  "}{"Title":"I KNOW there is a good black comedy script to this out there, somewhere!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this looking for a good black comedy. Funny thing was, it's in there somewhere and I just have the feeling that it got lost throughout rewrites and production.Here's a cast of very good performers jumping on something near and dear to all of our hearts -- Children's Programming and Merchandising. The what if... (tee-hee!) Children's programming was as cut-throat as all other parts of the entertainment industry is what makes this film so interesting. Casting Robin Williams as the fallen children's hero was brilliant, and casting Ed Norton as his overly squeaky-clean replacement was even better. The supporting cast of Jon Stewart, Danny DeVito and Catherine Keener was also good, the script..killed them all! It wasn't funny, not even black humor funny. At points it was down right hateful to what it was trying to make fun of. Don't get me wrong, Death to Smoochy  has a few funny moments, but a few is not enough...especially when the film goes way off base. I just like watching these performers, and everytime I watch Death to Smoochy, I know there is a very black comedy script for it that got thrown away and a bunch of egos took over. Sad. This would have been a blockbuster.Note to Jersey Films You should have done everything in your power to have the Farlley Brothers take this one on. I think a switch was in order. Jersey Films should have done Shallow Hal and The Farlley Brothers should have done Death to Smoochy. Whatdaya think folks!??!?! "},{"Title":"Another Bad Film From 2002 (POSSIBLE SPOILER).","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What had the makings of a sharp and funny dark show biz satire ends up being a wasteful mess at the hands of an otherwise talented cast and director. Williams (in the first of his 3 bad guy roles, so far), Norton, Keener, DeVito, Stewart, Fierstein and Rispoli (the movie's only likeable character, a punch drunk ex-boxer) seem to struggle with their roles and only manage to squeeze a few laughs out in the process. And the cop-out happy ending just sinks this mess further. For a good, sharp show biz satire rent NETWORK or S.O.B. But skip this turkey. Not the year's worst (THE SWEETEST THING hold that honor, so far), still a major disappointment. "},{"Title":"I have not laughed this hard in years!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This qualifies as one of the most original creative efforts by an extremely talented ensemble. The delivery and characterization by Ed Norton displays unprecedented talent and Robin Williams simply sucks you into his transformational ability. I agree that Danny DeVito seems to prefer putting profanity into every scene but this is ADULT humor, not a show for kids. I overlooked the numerous obscenities to revel in the incredible talent that was showcased in this vehicle for their brilliance. Clever satire, sharp writing, and unique camera and lighting usage is hard to come by in our test-market-audience-sculpted blandness that is the fodder of the masses. "},{"Title":"Exceed Expectations","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I truly expected this to be a washed up, Woody Allen type comedy, but boy, was I surprised!  I caught it by accident on Cinemax this weekend, I must say, it was very enlightening.  Despite the comedic aspect of the movie, it really revealed how dirty show business can really be.  I wouldn't have minded watching this one in the theater.  Eddie Norton is great-this was my first time seeing him in a comedy-he's an awesome actor.  And, Robin Williams was wonderful as usual-it's definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"I wish I had gone to see this in the theater !","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the promos for this film, and that it was Robin Williams in a Danny DeVito film, I knew it had to be pretty good.  But it got such bad press that it left the theaters very quickly and I didn't get a chance to.I just caught it on cable tonight and I laughed uncontrollably at least 10 times.  Yes, it is very dark.  Yes, it is sometimes disturbing.  No, it is not Oscar material.  But I found it very enjoyable and am still grinning as I type this.  There were a lot of funny moments, but overall Robin Williams' performance was hysterical.  There's quite a bit of violence, but you don't see any blood and there's no gore to speak of.  Great script.  Great acting.  Lots of dark fun.If you like dark comedies like Pulp Fiction, you'll like Death to Smoochy.  "},{"Title":"Loved it!!!","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I loved it!!  It was down right hilarious and I recommend it to everybody.  Robin Williams was excellent and the rest of the cast was good.  Need I say more??  Go out and rent it!!  Makes you think twice about what happened to Barney when his ratings went down.  Hahahahahaha!! 10 stars!! "},{"Title":"The rot beneath the sugar coating.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An intelligent and witty travesty on the business of children's television, from a period arguably before it became a wasteland of endlessly moronic cartoons.  Of course, all satire is based to some extent on truth, but this story isn't looking to besmirch Mr. Rogers or Sesame Street.  It is modeled more on commercialized shows going back to the 1950s such as Pinky Lee, much later with Pee Wee Herman, and most recently with Barney, all of which capitalized unmercifully on their characters.  Beyond that, the message of the film is about what happens when a genuinely sincere individual finds himself sucked into a world thoroughly corrupt, and motivated by unbridled selfishness and petty jealousies.  Although its theme is related to children's shows, it is not a film for children.  It is very dark and disturbing, with lots of strong language, violence and sexual content. Its subject for satire is the business of children's television, which behind the scenes can be very ugly, hypocritical, and exploiting.It does not try to have a message, but one still results What ever happened to children's television such that anything resembling value to children got left out?  There used to be shows in which kids were involved, and not just as voices in cartoons.  Real human children are more meaningful to other children than cartoons, but it is cheaper to make cartoons than to pay for live humans.  Cartoons sell toys and junk-food more dependably than children do, anyway, and they don't complain about issues of sincerity. It's just a business, after all, the purpose of which is to make money. It's not about children, but exploiting them for profits, and that is the message that emerges from Smoochy.  If even children's television is unscrupulous, what does that say for the rest of the entertainment business? "},{"Title":"Could have been shorter, but very funny.","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of many that I enjoyed, but was hesitant to recommend to friends and coworkers. I know and respect the fact that my tastes and humour are not that of the mainstream public.I enjoyed this movie!  I dislike Robin Williams SO much in family-appropriate movies, so when he plays Adult roles, I watch with relief and am not often disappointed.Some of the musical numbers performed on the Smoochy songs were brilliant.The Irish Mob tie-in was completely unnecessary, but at the same time was humorous.Comedies cant come much darker, and not everything in this movie worked. it drug in the middle a bit, and the female lead (if you can call her that) was weakly developed. but what the hell.  Good screenplay, strong plot, and all the primary characters committed entirely to their roles.  "},{"Title":"DEATH TO EBERT","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Usually, I try to read Roger Ebert's comments after I've watched a movie. He usually adds some witty, clever insights I might have missed back then.Well, after watching Death to Smoochy, I can only say I now relate Ebert go any of the gangsters portrayed on film... because I now share the same disdain for him I had for those guys.He is dead wrong about Smoochy. Flat out wrong. This is an amazingly funny, cruelly true movie about, well, let's not say a children's program, but the coming of age of an individual in the working world. Someone who has to relate his values and virtues to the harsh reality of a business. In this respect, Smoochy excels. All vices and faults of working in a big corporation are flawlessy displayed. Along come subplots involving the mafia, office romance, baked cookies, and yes, Nazis. I must say this out loud, though. I *hate* what has become of Robin Williams (Patch Adams, Bicentennial Man, etc.). But this Robin Williams is a completely different one. Irreverent, self centered, egotistical, maniac, outspoken, and simply fun. Danny deVito plays the perfect link between the Mafia and the business world. Edward Norton is... well, he is Edward Norton. At first I didn't think he could manage playing Smoochy. By the beginning of the second half, I just knew he was Smoochy.Overall, a terrific, completely underrated, deep and meaningful movie full of laughs, purple rhinos and insights. Higly recommended.I almost forgot...DEATH TO EBERT! "},{"Title":"Don't critics have a sense of humor?","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, no long essay here to justify my opinon or inflate my ego.  Just wanted to say that we rented Death to Smoochy over the weekend and it had all four of us laughing really hard at the dark humor.  Danny DeVito, Ed Norton & Robin Williams have proved time after time that they're not afraid to take risks with the movies they choose to be affiliated with and this movie is no exception.  I know it made many critics '10 worst' list, but I've discovered over the years that critics often have a hard time just sitting back and enjoying a movie like the general public.  I've also seen critically acclaimed movies that I thought we real stinkers.But if you want a manic ride on the dark humor train....you'll enjoy this movie.  Just make darn sure no kid is in the neighborhood while you're watching it....this is no kids movie. "}{"Title":"Great Dark Comedy","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was well written and acted.  Ed Norton did a fantastic job acting like you would expect a kids show actor to be and Robin Williams plays the complete opposite.  Both played their ends of the spectrum perfectly.  This movie strikes me the same way The Hudsucker Proxy did. It has a dark quality to it that is refreshing to see.  Too many comedies are in your face and try to force the humor.  Smoochy uses a large amount of situational humor and I suppose the best term for it is shocking humor. The acting is what makes the shocking humor great and Norton and Williams pull it off.  I'm not saying that this is the greatest movie ever made ( some of the scenes seemed a tad lengthy), but it is an entertaining film if you love Dark Comedies. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly escapist","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to Smoochy is a refreshing break from the current run of super-hero, computer game, gangsta rap, and ultra reality shows on the market. Though lacking slightly in plot development, DeVito's film offers more than enough elements to entertain the viewer. The first are his stage settings. These are very colorful and highly produced, offering the viewer that well needed escape from what has become over-played ultra-realism.Williams' choreographic performance caught my attention immediately. He danced through his scenes expertly and showcased his character with aplomb. His character allowed him to show off his acting range handsomely.Overall, the acting was skilled and credible. A couple of issues in character/plot development made it unclear if the writing or the editing was lacking. The first example is the abrupt change in demeanor on the part of the lead female character. The acting was excellent, but the transition from angry young female to admiring love interest happened without sufficient warning. The character essentially went from black to white without having established a potential for such a significant change.Another issue, which I assume was related to the editing, was a loose end delivered by Smoochy. The character claimed that he had been forced to take an anger management class sometime in his past, but the unfolding of the plot seemed to make that remark irrelevant.In spite of these issues, I enjoyed the film and would recommend it to anyone looking for an alternative to overly cerebral or passionate flicks. "},{"Title":"I don't get it","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How can Roger Ebert call this the Worst Movie of 2002?  Surely there were other movies last year--a teen horror movie, a teen comedy, a live action cartoon, a silly action movie--that would be worthy of that title.  This movie, while no masterpiece, was clever, wicked and timely.  I've only been subjected to the Barney show once, while I was babysitting, and wondered, in the back of my mind, what the creator of Barney was thinking, or smoking, when he came up with the idea of a purple dinosaur for kids.  Danny DeVito's direction in this movie is unique, just as it was in Throw Mamma from the Train and War of the Roses.  The sudden close-ups and strange angles, for example.  And Robin Williams--I have never seen him like this.  A twisted, severely deranged version of the characters he played in sugary hits like Mrs. Doubtfire and Patch Adams.  I could watch this movie again.  Like another misunderstood failure, The Cable Guy, I think the appeal of this movie will grow in the coming years.   "},{"Title":"It's one of the best satires of TV since `Network'","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's sharp to the point of discomfort.  In the first two scenes, we have a song that's an extended Gay in-joke, (am I the ONLY reviewer here that's figured this out?), a commentary on how Children's TV shows in the USA are seamless commercial advertisements, the bribery scene that echoes a multitude of show-business scandals (Payola, Pee-Wee Herman, etc).This movie has a cynical mindset found more in Britain (Pinewood?) than Hollywood.  Perhaps that's the source of the widespread negativity among American audiences. Maybe they just don't get the references in `flyover country' &#150; sort of like Jay Leno's joke about McDonalds being open for breakfast. I rented the DVD and found it engaging, especially the outtakes and commentary section.Edward Norton is shaping up to be his generation's Dustin Hoffman &#150; the man that can play anything, no matter what.  "},{"Title":"The film that sank Filmfour","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After hearing that the failure of this film had managed to sink a film studio that was reknowned for its controversial and experimental (not to mention Good) films, coupled with the fact that this had happened before it had even been released in the Uk and Europe (which it still hasn't), I had to check it out. Thanks to an unofficial copy (read Pirate) I saw it and what did I see? Lo and behold! No masterpiece. That was too be expected of course but then again it was no Speed 2 Cruise control. The film does have a lot going for it but such things as Ropey -direction and some dodgy acting drag it down. The subject matter is new. Smoochy bears an uncanny resemblance to Barney which of course is the point. The satire is interesting but never quite delivers on its promise of taking the unmerciful mickey out of shows like the aforementioned purple dinosaur or teletubbies.Edward Norton hams it up quite well as the good natured hippie-like character who doesn't have a corrupt bone in his body, while Robin Williams proves what most of us have forgotten, that he is actually quite a good actor when he forgets about all that emotional crap and just goes hysterical swearing a lot. I certainly wouldn't watch Death to Smoochy again but it does show several signs of becoming a cult favourite. Who knows maybe it will soon become essential Post-pub; beer, pizza and doob fodder.  "},{"Title":"too bad they couldn't make this movie about a certain dinosaur","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I always knew that those Mr. Rogers and Captain Kangaroo types were whack-jobs off camera.  I always suspected that the world of children's TV strangely resembled Goodfellas.  I always knew that the IceCapades were a shakedown.  And anyone who would willingly dress up in a fluffy purple rhinoceros suit would fit in naturally at a Neo-Nazi rally.If you spent your childhood ridiculing Mr. Rogers and his fans, you'll love this move.  If you like Danny DeVito's twisted sense of humor you'll love this movie.  And even if you hate Robin Williams as much as I do, you'll still have a great time. "},{"Title":"Death to Ebert","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was blown away when Ebert hailed this movie as the worst of 2002, come on, there's at least one hundred more out there that deserve that title.  (check out the independent film channel releases for plenty of nominees...or even Signs) I thought Death to Smoochy was satirical, dark, insightful and twistedly funny.  It reminded me of something that Terry Gillam might make. I loved the premise, and quickly linked Smoochy to Barney, (of which I had my own fantasys of wanting to mutilate, as I'm sure many have) and I think, if this was truly a bad movie the plot would have ended there.  But the story was actually much more complex and imaginative than that.  I loved Robin Williams (though he was pretty dark) and those goofy songs sung by Smoochy.  The satire was brilliant.  The movie was brillant.  Ebert, it's movies like these that I treasure because they're different, they're not like all the other hack jobs out there...how many romantic comedys or even dramas have we seen that we haven't already seen in one form or another a hundred times over? (even in the past 10 years for that matter)  How many thillers?  How many detective stories?  How many cookies have been cut from the same mold time and time again?  One walk down the video store isle and even the art on the video boxes start looking the same. How many times are we going to see the older mentor and the young maverick working together?  How many times are we going to see some buddy film formula? How many coming of age movies do we have to endure!  How many Sensitive, chick type movies featuring a soundtrack that could have been made for a pathetic Get Well card-can a thinking man take!!!!Help!!!!!  They're all looking the same!!!!!Thank God Death to Smootchy has the balls to bring us something different!!! Ebert reconsider, Let Smoochy Live! "},{"Title":"Not horrid","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I sat in amazement, watching Ebert rate this the worst movie of 2002.With so many WORTHY candidates for that title, why pick on this one? I suppose, if you can't comprehend the humor, if you can't see that all characters here are cartoonish in their two dimensionality...Looking for a point? There isn't one!Looking for stellar acting? Don't bother!It was fun. Nothing wrong with that... the horrid string of Adam Sandler movies continue to roll in the money, why not watch something a little more adult?Judging by the ratings on IMDB, this movie wasn't hated. It's not Oscar material, but I really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"one of the underrated films of 2002","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The negative reviews of Death to Smoochy seem to be putting more thought into the film than is required.  When viewed as 'art,' or 'satire,' sure, it falls flat on its face.  Where this film succeeds is in its own, attention-deficit disorder high energy.  Rainbow Randolph (Robin Williams), a children's show host, is arrested for taking bribes, and spends the whole movie trying to get revenge on his replacement, a way-too-perky guy in a Rhino suit named Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton).  As directed by Danny DeVito (who also plays an agent with alterior motives), the film is vulgar, lowbrow, and often loud and obnoxious.  Yet...I laughed the whole way through it, despite (or maybe because of) the crudity of the humor, and the datedness of its subject (come on, the Anti-Barney bandwagon left town 5 years ago).  That, and Robin Williams' manic, damn-the-torpedoes performance left me entranced.  Shut off your brain and enjoy some mindless entertainment.  3 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Deadly!","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Abominable comedy from Danny DeVito about a children's show host (Robin Williams) who seeks revenge on his Barney-like replacement (Ed Norton).DeVito's The War of the Roses was a marvelous dark comedy with outstanding performances from Kathleen Turner and Micheal Douglas; Death to Smoochy is a pathetic excuse for a movie with two good actors who cannot do comedy (Catherine Keener and Norton) simply because they're not funny.  Watch the scenes they have together  there's no chemistry of any kind and the jokes sound like heavy lumber when it falls!  Williams screams, rants, and acts psychotic but it's exhausting to watch and will leave you scrambling for the 'off' button on your remote control.Granted, the story sounds funny and like it might be a good time with a little bit of a bite but DeVito crushes any inspired sense of zestfulness  -you can tell from the opening shot that you're in deep trouble-  and it leaves you with a severe headache and a sudden, desperate need to read a book. If you have any sort of curiousity about this dismal mess of a movie, save yourself the trouble and channel it into knitting! "}{"Title":"the dark side of kiddie TV is excellent!!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams is great as Rainbow Randolph, a kiddie entertainer who is caught by the FBI for taking kickbacks. His replacement is Smoochy, a large pink rhino played by an honest, cheerful guy named Sheldon who just wants to make kids happy. Randolph plans to take out a hit on the popular Smoochy, who has turned him into a has-been within a New York minute.Williams is hysterical as the obsessed, diabolical man who ironically works with kids. I laughed out loud several times watching him plot (and fail at) implementing various schemes to bring down Smoochy. The plot to plant an obscene-looking cookie for Smoochy to give to a child on live TV is both grotesque and ingenious. Ed Norton shines with his gee whiz! demeanor as he dances around in a rhino outfit. As Randolph yells to God in the middle of Times Square, after he has again been shoved aside for Smoochy, What does it all MEAN? What does it all mean, indeed? Just how crass it is to make money off kids, and the tripe we produce as entertainment (including some rather comical ice capades.) How the most innocent-seeming of industries is rife with jealousy, politics and greed. That it can all be the basis for a black comedy. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully absurd","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Possible Spoiler...(i really don't know if this spoils anything, but just in case...)Finally, I got the dvd and sat down and watched Death to Smoochy.  I prepared myself to be dragged through another painfully slow dark comedy, Devito starts everything off with a bang, literally. In general, the action is quick in the beginning as it is with the current film archetypes. Boom, Devito throws us into his world immediately.His world, of course, is that of the absurd.  Anyone who talks bad about this film's cruel language, plot realism, purpose, kill Barney jabs, etc... obviously missed the big point Devito made.It's all absurd.  A competitive market for children's tv show characters? Stat sheets for these up and coming 'performers'?  One man, obsessed enough to gather Nazi's to a tractor warehouse?  It's all absurd. (Absurd as in, theater of the absurd; although, outrageous fits here also)  The whole thing.  The environment, the plot, the meaning (which does hold basis in our temporal world of reasoning) Everything is overly dramatic and done over the top.  The Sets, the actions, the single-sided characters...  It's Devito's own ideas of the state of the American Public.The film is dark... the seedy underbelly of children's programming, gun-toting charity groups skimming a little 'off the top' (strangely reminsicant of Serpico).  Just imagine receiving a tagline that incorporated those ideas...  Why it's absurd! Exactly.  And I believe that that idea is what Devito was trying to convey.How else could you summarize Williams' performance? Enlightened? Possessed? Out of control? No.Absurd. "},{"Title":"i loved it!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  so i just don't understand the anti-smoochy hype i've been hearing for the last six months!  A wonderfully helpful NYU student at the video store told me she thought Smoochy was the best black-comedy she'd seen and i heartily agree.  That's what it is too, an amazing black-comedy... a motherly matron of the irish mafia, crazed kiddie-show hosts, a spirulina/almond butter sauce served over soy dogs at Nathans?  what else could it have been?  I thought it was brilliant, some of the lines (particularly sheldon's (Edward Norton)) were brilliant (wallets with pigtails had me laughing for ten minutes) and the acting was generally well above par!  Some small detractions jon stewart, he just wasn't funny, normally i like him - i guess compared with the unparalleled Robin Williams and the inexpressibly talented Ed Norton his made-for-TV humor comes to the surface.  Also, having watched it a couple of times now, i think Smoochy should have been set in Boston - the original home of Seseme Street and the Irish Mafia... but that's just my opinion.  This is one i'm buying! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Death To (Fill in Name Here)!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to Smoochy is visually a great picture. Much like most of DeVito's films it has great style and a nice pace in energy. The characters alone are great, very funny. The plot builds on itself pretty well. Sometimes things seem too contrived, but for the most part they work. The acting is great (minus the GREAT Jon Stewart. Sorry Jon. You are now the host of may be the greatest show of our time, but that is who you are. It's just weird seeing you out there on the field). Where does this movie go wrong? Easy, the characters are fine by themselves, but when asked to be in a seen together, to communicate with one another, these characters break down. They don't mix well, it's weird to see Nora and Sheldon start having (let me put in away Smoochy might), Humpty-dumpty rumpty time... together.And the anger of Randolph, (while really funny) lets us down by the end. And a strange team-up happens that when you see you think, Of course this is what happens. Not, Oh! Of course this is what happens! Why didn't I see it before, how clever! The movie was dark but it felt like it wanted to be darker, meaner, but it was too nice.On the other hand Death to Smoochy is not the train wreck so many are calling it. In fact it's completely watchable. (Smoochy's song about stepfathers may be one of the funniest songs ever written). If I was to teach a film school I would use the style of this film. The colors,  the movement of the cameras, it's all great. Now, if we could only move Mr.DeVito on the better scripts, he may well be able to make a great film. ** (out of ****) "},{"Title":"Believe it or not, I liked it!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll keepo this short and to the point. I heard many bad things about Smoochy, but I finally decided to rent it and boy was it funny! The first time I saw it, I was like 'meh..' but I watched it again and again and it got better and better. Normally I'm not an Edward Norton fan but seeing him as Smoochy was great. I LOVE Robin Williams and it was even better to see him taking a break from his 'love life and fight against purgatory as a doctor' roles. I was even surprised to see Vincent Schiavelli as the smack addict hitman. I didn't care for Catherien Keener (I didnt like her in Malcovich or Oblivion either.. I dont see what the big craze about her is..) and I despise Harvey Feinstein. Thankfully he wasn't in it much. Im also glad DeVito wasn't in the movie much either.I loved Norton's reactions to foul language. That was probably the best part of it. Heh. "},{"Title":"What a LET-DOWN!","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really expected a LOT more from this film.  What a complete downer the ending  was.  Guess the expression black comedy didn't really apply here at ALL! "},{"Title":"a minor flagellation and bed without dessert for Smoochy","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  6 out of 10Danny DeVito's most recent directorial stab (pun intended) isn't great, but it certainly doesn't warrant death to its participants.  Instead, everyone involved in `Death to Smoochy' should wash their mouths out with soap, go to their rooms for a while and sincerely think about what they have done.You see, it's not often such a great cast gets put together (or that Jon Stewart gets more than three minutes of slated screen time) or that America has healed enough from its wounds to finally be able to enjoy a good `Kill Barney' movie again.But you weren't thinking about that Mr. DeVito, now were you?  No, you got too caught up in the subplot with the mafia and with repetitive character mannerisms.  You forgot to let the actors be themselves.  You got lazy and you let us down.  Now I want you to write a thousand times `I will not waste talent.  I will not waste talent.  I will not waste talent.'  And so on.Remember when you had the Irish lady say she would cut off the guy's b***s and shove them up his a**, and then Ed Norton's character said, `no, we should save that for the cops to do,' and then the other Irish guy said, `actually, the cops won't do the b*** shoving thing-it's against procedure.' That was crude, and I don't approve of that sort of language, but it was also very funny and there were a lot of laugh-out loud moments like that.You see, you can be good when you want to be.  You can be very good and we want to love you so much but sometimes you just put so much emphasis on moving the plot forward that you forget to be funny and it frustrates your mother and I.  It's just that you have so much potential and we've already given up on your older siblings and you were our last chance to do things right.  You were supposed to be the good one.We wish you would have devoted a little more time to Smoochy's kids show. The singalong about stepfathers was inspired, but most of the other songs didn't seem to have required much thought, and there were so many jabs at the Barney phenomenon just begging to be made that you didn't even explore. We raised you better than that.I know I've already mentioned this, but you could have really done without a lot of the scatological humor.  Half the time you have Robin Williams screaming I can't even tell what he's saying, but I can pretty much guess that it starts with an 'f' and it ain't 'funny.'  Just because something's in your pants doesn't make it a punchline.Incidentally, have you thought about what we talked about last week? Have you declared a major yet?  How are things working out between you and Rhea? When are you going to make us grandparents?  When are you going to make something of your life?  We worry about you, you know.  We love you.I don't want to get all gushy here, but in your finest moments, of which there were many, you have done us proud, son.  Ed Norton's Smoochy is so blissfully nave until he falls out of character at the end.  Robin Williams' Rainbow Randolph is so savagely funny even when he falls out of character at the end.  And the end credits, an hilarious sendup of Peter Pan on Ice, are so campily great until they end up ending . . . at the end.It's moments like these that make me think that things could have turned out differently.  Maybe if only we had been better to you.  Maybe if we had gone to see you play T-ball when you were a kid, or if I would have taken you out for ice cream after you got your tonsils out.  Maybe if we would have been there for you through the thick and thin of it all, instead of just showing up in your life for the first time at a press screening four days before your theatrical release. But now you're all grown up and it's too late for both of us to change. You've already been through post-production and distribution and played in theatres across the nation.  So though we do not completely agree with how you have decided to turn out, we want you to know that we still love you, and will continue to support you-even if we don't visit again until you hit the dollars or the rental racks.  Don't forget to write.Love, your daddy, Evil Will "},{"Title":"i laughed harder and more frequently than my friends...","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning.  Possible spoilers and strong language follows. Warning.maybe, i'm different, but i think that danny devito delivering lines about entertaining pygmies with juggling is funny.  i also think edward norton, jr in a mock barney suit is funny.  john stewart does rarely come off as funny in movies but robin williams is colorfully f**king hilarious in a foul-mouthed role that's funnier than...well, anatomically shaped foods.the plot appears simple.  first man loses his job.  second man replaces him. first man wants his old life back.  second man enjoys his new position in life, until disillusionment, and then wants his old life back, because he can't seem to make a dent in his new one.things aren't always what they seem-to-be with this movie.  the plot is there, the acting (norton is perfect) is there, the sub-text is there, and the direction is lushly profuse.  danny devito is a giant in movie-making. "},{"Title":"Film - 6/10, Norton - 10/10","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A dark comedy that doesn't quite succeed but lets Norton shine. His performance saved the film while the few jokes couldn't. The funniest part of the film is it's premise of a hitman out after a Pink Rhino that stars in a children's show. Robin Williams pulls off the psycho well. His character is also, thankfully, not all that predictable. The film is promising and I'd recommend it those that are fans of Devito, Norton, or Williams. But not to those interested in the dark comedy genre. 6/10, Norton 10/10 "},{"Title":"A good idea is handled like a mediocre sitcom featuring another tedious, manic-depressive performance from Robin Williams.","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This comedy is an attempt at satirizing the selling of children's TV, and though it has some bright spots, it's mostly a series of wisecracks and colorful send-ups of kiddie characters.  There's an unconvincing and limp love story, an underworld subplot that's hopelessly juvenile and some unwelcome sentimentality that ultimately overshadow the film's better moments.  The best part of the movie is the ice-folly finale, which, as bad luck would have it, comes during the end titles.  Too bad. "}{"Title":"Terrific Fun!","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Incredibly enough, this smart black comedy was trashed by American critics. Perhaps this is offensive to American family values. There are surely not many other reasons not to like this flick. Death to Smoochy completely ridicules children's television and the clowns, and includes mafia, corruption and murder among other things. The ending is perhaps too joyful for a black comedy, but it still works. If you hate children's television, then this is for you. "},{"Title":"ugly, wasteful mess","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once upon a time I impulsively through a manwich sandwichacross a room up  against a wall just to see what would happennext. Even though it was my apartment, the woman I was diningwith failed to see the humor in the action and stormed out thedoor, insulted. After she left I walked over to the wall anddiscovered that i had created an ugly, wasteful mess. Yet thesplatter made sort of an interesting albeit indecipherable artisticstatement so I left the mess up for a day or two. I even invited acouple of people over to look at it. The reaction was mixed at best.Meanwhile I called my friend and apologized for my impetuosity. By the time she returned to my apartment, the mess on the wallwas erased and I tried to get on with our relationship but thingswere never quite the same between us again. Death to Smoochie reminds me of that misadventure. It's gonnabe a long time before I forget Norton in that rhino suit, Williams soirredemably foul mouthed and Keener going from smart to stupidin the blink of a theme song. And as far as DeVito goes, it's all overfer shure fer shure. One mess after another for that jerk.  "},{"Title":"Good idea gone bad","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Watching Death to Smoochy, I realized it must have looked great on paper. But, we don't watch movies on paper. We watch them (for now) on film. And on film, this film flops.I checked out the credits of the writer, Adam Resnick. Unfortunately, I've seen all three films he wrote this one, Lucky Numbers and (get ready) Cabin Boy. I didn't like any of them, but there's a certain consistency to them. While watching all three of them, I said to myself, Hmmm. That should make me laugh. But it doesn't. Something about this guy's work just does not translate. And yet, I'm not sure the writing was the main culprit here. Instead, I blame three other elements. First, Ed Norton. Yeah yeah, great actor and all. Love him in almost everything else. But how they settled on him for the role of Sheldon/Smoochy is beyond me. He brought entirely the wrong vibe, spirit and mannerisms to the part. In no way does this role suit him.Second, Catherine Keener. Anyone else getting tired of seeing this girl play a bitch? Best I can tell, she's a one-note actress, and I've heard enough of that note. Thanks, Catherine. Next time we need a hardened  urban professional woman who uses sarcasm as a defense mechanism, we'll be sure to give you a call. Until then, I suggest trying to find the other two dimensions to your characters.Third, and most crucial, the direction. Devito just f*cked this one up. Where he should have gone for irony, he went for maliciousness. It tilts the boat the wrong way, and everyone goes into the drink. I almost always like Danny, but he did not interpret this script right. Because of that, this movie never really had a chance.If you give me this script, these actors and this director, I agree to make this film any day of the week. Oh well. Just goes to show you that there's no such thing as can't lose. Because in this case, can't lose did. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time on this movie","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie made no sense to me whatsoever. I was not inspired by this film probably because I couldn't relate to the plot, characters or how it was presented. This was not the kind of movie where I could get to know the characters as real people nor could I relate in any meaningful way with the way the movie was presented or even the theme. Obviously this type of movie and I just don't see eye-to-eye. It seemed to be a movie written expressly for Robin Williams to show off his talents - so Mr. Williams' fans my like this movie. I wouldn't waste my time, money or energy watching this poor excuse for entertainment again. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as you've heard...","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What on Earth did critics think was sooooo bad about this movie?  Sure, I can see why some people might not like it, but for it to be universally hated by nearly every critic--I don't get it.  This movie wasn't nearly as bad as I had heard it was.  I thought it was hysterical (Stepdad isn't mean, he's just adjusting, etc).  Yes, it was vulgar, but I thought it was only to contrast between the kiddie world and the big-bad world of corruption.  Catherine Keener was pitch-perfect (as always) as was Ed Norton and Robin Williams (who is always fantastic).  Sure there were some plot holes and maybe some unnecessary stuff (a highly technical term), but after all was said and done this was one of the funniest movies I had seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"A solid dark comedy","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Look, it's a DARK comedy.  There's not supposed to be a lot of belly laughs or guffaws, like Something About Mary or even Throw Momma from the Train. Instead, it's a film about the sordid underbelly of the children's entertainment world, unexpectedly rife with sex, drugs, money, payola, gangsters, crooks and shysters, and one human's struggle to maintain integrity in the face of all that.The humor here is subtle, clever and absurd.  It didn't spend too much time parodying childrens shows (which are an easy target, and would be a waste of time).  It was way better than I expected from all the negative (and overly positive reviews).And though I never laughed out loud but once or twice, I'm glad I saw the movie.  And that's the important thing. "},{"Title":"but the critics aren't mean they're just adjusting","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on DVD the other day, and I must say I was impresses. I have always enjoyed Danny DeVito's movies that he has directed and this is no exception. IMDB has the release date for Australia as May 2002, however, I don't ever recall this movie ever been released in Australia. It most certainly is not out on video or DVD as yet, and to not give it a theatrical release out here would be a crime.I noticed that it has not faired well financially in America, (9 million), but I hope that it becomes something of a cult classic. It most certainly is deserving of such reputation.Favourite character would have to have been Spinner. This costumes making my balls itch. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of 5","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Back in the 80's director Danny DeVito made a twisted, dark comedy masterpiece known as Throw Momma From the Train. Now we fast forward to today where he has delved deep down into the darkest recesses of his mind to churn out a film that is so ridiculous it is entertaining. The film starts off with the arrest of children's television king Rainbow Randolph for taking a bribe from agents posed as parents wanting their child on his show. With an open time slot just waiting to be filled TV big wigs turn to an out of luck, good-natured, purple rhino named Smoochy. Smoochy's main goal in life is to bring his good morals to the children of the world but he is constantly at battle to due so because his bosses are only interested in squeezing every penny out of the world with Smoochy as their outlet. But as Smoochy sky-rockets to the top of kiddie land Randolph slowly loses his mind and does everything he can to ruin the rhino at any cost to position himself back on top, even if this means replacing Smoochy's cookies with one the is shaped like a penis. This film supposedly focuses on the backstage life of television show hosts, one faulting because he is rotten to the core and one faulting because he doesn't have an indecent bone in his body and how the money hungry executives will stop at no cost to sell their product, sound like  satire? Well yes and no. It does attempt to be smart and convey a certain message but the simple fact is that it never once seems to take itself seriously, we have a slimy manager, a producer with a fetish for TV show hosts, a stadium fill of Nazi's, a doped up hit man, and an Irish mob boss, now someone please tell me how you can make a serious film out of that. I expected nothing from this film when I saw it and maybe that's why I enjoyed it so much, but the film does struggle to find a common medium for its audience. Teen's won't find it funny because the comedy is far to dark and mature for their liking but it is far to goofy for the hardcore film buffs to take a liking to, rendering it a love or hate find of film. Robbin Williams is constantly hilarious as Randolf who to me shows a lot of the spirit here that he does while watching him do live stand-up. Ed Norton is good as Smoochy, I suppose but the character is so boring and annoying that he hardly seems fit to be here. Danny DeVito and John Stewart have small but important roles as weasels only out to make a quick buck, but the true comedic gold comes from Michael Rispoli as Spinner Dunn, a former boxer who seems to have taken a few to many blows to the head because he has the IQ of about a five year old. Rispoli steals every scene and makes every word out of his mouth nothing short of hilarious, I couldn't help but laugh out loud when he yells Hey Smoochy I'll be right back I've got to take a dump in across a public restaurant. This film has received many bad reviews, Ebert and Roeper even went as far as to call it the worst film of the year, but even through all of those harsh comments I just couldn't help but sit back and have a good time. This film is offensive, vulgar and seriously twisted but it sure is fun if you take it from the proper context. If you are looking for some deep message and some smart comedy your not going to get it and probably hate what you see, as this film is not for everyone. If you are just looking for an over-the-top look on a topic so stupid it almost has to be funny then your in for a treat. The material within may not be a crowning comedic achievement but it sure made my night, check it out and see for yourself.   "},{"Title":"Ed Norton and Robin Williams work the canine beat!","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cookies that leave me hungry for something else.A typical Hollywood, churn mode, product directed by Danny De Vito who acts in and directs a movie which has characters with no depth and the cardinal sin of no story to tell. Relying on cosmestic changes, this  cookie cutter script was not bound to garner dust because the outcome is so predictable, it's bound to be a hit. Do I hear a DOG barking? Hire good set and a costume designers, a dialogue coach for cosmetic vernacular changes, and voila a factory script was repackaged and unfortunately shot with a decent cast. Any able body person in their sleep could direct this groaner which seems to fit the case for Mr. De Vito but with this script is was already wounded beyond the skills of the best Vet. If you are not turned off by the image of a burning puppy, read on!Shot in New York City, Robin Williams plays Rudolph, a once famous clown on a fictitious kid TV Network. At the height of his success, he becomes the center of a big scandal which gets him the boot. Destitute, he will seek revenge on his successor. In the meantime, a network executive played by Catherine Keener,the love interest, scrambles to find a more manageable replacement in this hot time slot.  In comes, Ed Norton, an actor playing Moochy, a stuffed Rhino a la Barney. The rest of the movie is predictable as everybody wants Moochy's head because of his too nice disposition and laudable health nut, war on sugar, utopic ambitions. The is in the tried and true good vs. greed Hollywood formula. Too many secondary character villains with weak dialogue make for a rambling story. Garnished by a few inspired Improvs by Williams which probably made for some good trailer sound bites, I found this movie failed because it had no credible audience. With a script that insults the intelligence of an 8 year old and the verbal sexual content which is inappropriate for most children, which audience was this movie targetting? My answer is a marginal group of adults who watch TV in snippets who don't really care for an original story i.e. box office bomb material!While some of the visuals including the ice show scenes were grand, in the end, there was no story here worth telling to mass appeal and the non connect left me asking Was there more than Rudolph's jacket to this movie? Where can I get that clown jacket for my next gig as a dog trainer? Heel boy, Heel!  HAOOOOO! "},{"Title":"Much funnier than I thought it would be...","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know this movie did not do well at the theaters and I know the so called experts weren't thrilled with Death to Smoochy, But my husband and I laughed our butts off when we watched it on DVD last night.  Ed Norton is funny as the ethical Smoochy and Robin Williams is in his element as the not so ethical Rainbow Randolph. I heartily suggest you watch Death to Smoochy if you like offbeat movies. Ignore the experts and make up your own minds. "}{"Title":"Wicked, inventive and fun","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to Smoochy misses the high marks it aims for a lot of thetime but you've never seen a studio-backed film aim for the brandof insanity DeVito delivers.  It's dark, demented, whacked-out,goofy, eye-popping and never dull.  What an awesome cast (theDVD has outtakes and bloopers that are priceless).  The finalcredit sequence is some of the best visual celluloid candy I'veseen in ages.  Check it out and forget the critics who derailed itupon release.  It's obvious Warner Bros. had no idea how tomarket it but I can't imagine how they could have without somecritical support.  I just finished watching it and am looking forwardto a second viewing down the road.  What a nutjob of a movie, andI mean that as a compliment. "},{"Title":"...MY INTENTIONS ARE GOOD, OH LORD PLEASE DON'T LET ME BE MISUNDERSTOOD...","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie merits a second viewing if you didn't like it because you thought the subject was lame, period.There is nothing lame about life, and that's what this movie is about, not a purple rhino.Also, it's very easy to let one's dislike for a movie's format detract from the actual performances  in this film, the performances were dead on with the format; over the top for the TV personalities and a little under for all those who weren't (it's funny to see Robin Williams throwing around the same language casually on the Daily Show that he does as a madman in Death to Smootchy, i guess we know when he's acting, huh?).OK that's it, if you have cared to read this far, i hope you care to put in one thousandth of the time and effort needed to make this film (fueled by the love of filmmaking) into watching it.  watch it twice, and think about it, you'll feel sad and so so happy at once.for ratings sake (ratings should never exist) 9.14159/10 "},{"Title":"Funny premise but missing something","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"     I really wanted to love this movie. I have respect for Williams,Norton and DeVito but it didn't click.....mainly Norton. Don't get me wrong,I think he is a  great actor and  have enjoyed pretty much all his movies but I really think they should have cast someone that could really pull it off. I'm not a big Jim Carrey fan but this part was tailor-made for him and after watching the movie again while  imagining Carrey as Smoochy it was a lot funnier.    Besides the casting fault, I think the whole thing about the Irish mafia was a bit weak and although vital to the plot  it just didn't seem to work. Otherwise, a very funny story that needed some fine tuning before being made. "},{"Title":"A dark comedic hit!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this movie was absolutely hysterical! Or course, Robin Williams does an amazing job as a deranged former kiddie show host, and Edward Norton is fabulous as his doe-eyed replacement. From start to finish, this movie entertains, and the ending is not as dark as you might fear. Wonderful! "},{"Title":"Brainless crap (but Robin Williams shines)","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is not even worthy of the few words that I have for this mess.  It's about a Barney-like TV character (Edward Norton)who inherits the time slot of an arrogant schmuck (Robin Williams) that has been doing not-so-kiddie-approved things, gets caught and seeks revenge on Smoochy . I'm sorry, folks, but this movie just made no sense to me.  What few chuckles I got were from Robin Williams and his profanity-laced one-liners. Rent a Barney video instead. "},{"Title":"who dares, wins !","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a great surprise ! Death To Smoochy took me by surprise. Only knowing the cast but without a clue about the story i watched it and it blew me away !Right after the brilliant intro dance sequence, where Robin Williams once again proves that he is a natural-born show talent, this movie  unloads its very original and daring mixture of romantic/black comedy, fairy tale, musical, noir, thriller and even action ! Williams is top, as the lunatic, fall-from-grace kid television star, seaking for revenge and often reminded me of Krusty the Clown from The Simpsons.I have seem almost all of Edward Norton's movies so far, and it looks like i still have to find a single one, where he is not absolutely fantastic ! As Sheldon Mopes, he reminded me a lot of the character Norville Barnes in The Hudsucker Proxy, a simple minded, naive, but good hearted person that you cant help but have love, and Norton proves that he can play just about any role out there ! Catherine Keener was almost as good as she was in Being John Malkovich, still drop-dead gorgeous, especially when she is a b****. I think the screen chemistry between Keener and Norton was wonderful and a real pleasure to watch !This movie is really funny, sometimes even witty, super corny (i laughed my ass off !), bizarre and wacky, with lots of Farelly, Coen and Monty Python like scenes. It may not be mainstream and not everyone's taste but those movies are usually the best.Thumbs up for Danny Devito's directing. There are only a few movies that successfully dares to mix up genre so much, Death to Smoochy is definitely one of them. "},{"Title":"Nothing short of brilliant","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, I mean it. This movie was fantastic in every way, and so extremely honest and cynical. The story was very clever and the characters well crafted. Some people don't seem to like this movie, and I can't figure out why that is. Sure, it's honest and very dark in some ways, but that is why it's one of the most refreshing movies I've seen in years.Trust me, the enthusiasm of Edward Norton and everyone elses clear intent of smashing that positive attitude to pieces will put a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"Wickedly funny, but not everyone's cup of tea.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before you see this film, you must really have a tolerance for some seriously dark humor. Juxaposing Barney-esque children's show scenes with mobsters and disgruntled workers cursing a blue streak and murder is an odd form of comedy, and probably won't work for everyone. (I laughed my ass off while my mother was horrified.)Also, the juxaposition of Ed Norton's innocent character and the world of corruption around him works pretty well too. To like this film, you'll need to be in a very loose humor kind of mood. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had kind of avoided watching this movie, because I had heard that it was a dark comedy.  I have usually found that most dark comedies  forget the comedy part.  But, I thought that Smoochy delivered on the goods.  There aren't any real belly laughs in the movie, but there are several chuckles.  Most of the humor revolves around Sheldon (Smoochy/Norton) being kind of a fish out of water as a children's TV entertainment personality.  Not that he is unsuited to entertain children, but just the opposite.  He is perfectly suited to entertain children, while practically everyone else in the industry has long ago forgotten about the children in exchange for promoting their own interests, and lining their own pockets.  So, everyone struggles to manipulate Smoochy for their own interests, while Smoochy wants nothing that isn't in the best interest of his child fans.  Of course, meanwhile, a nearly, over the top Robin Williams plots for Smoochy's overthrow, as revenge for Smoochy taking his time slot on TV.I enjoyed the conflicts, and found the movie to be enjoyable.  Go Smoochy! "},{"Title":"It's no THROW MAMMA FROM THE TRAIN, thats' for sure.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams, playing the third deranged character he's played this year, stars as Rainbow Randolph, a beloved but corrupt kids TV show star in the vein of what Barney could be in real life (who's under that suit anyway?). Anyway, rainbow is fired for accepting bribes. He is replaced by the earnest Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton; FIGHT CLUB) and his persona of Smoochy the Rhino. This doesn't bode well for Rainbow Rudolph and he plots revenge on Smoochy. Sound ridiculous? It is. 	But it's meant to be. This isn't a great comedy but it has its moments. However, I expected more from the talent involved. I thought Danny Devito made a great comedy with THROW MAMMA FROM THE TRAIN and I guess I just wanted this film to be  a little more like that one. Not bad, worth a rental just for Norton and Williams performances.   "}{"Title":"It's no THROW MAMMA FROM THE TRAIN, thats' for sure.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams, playing the third deranged character he's played this year, stars as Rainbow Randolph, a beloved but corrupt kids TV show star in the vein of what Barney could be in real life (who's under that suit anyway?). Anyway, rainbow is fired for accepting bribes. He is replaced by the earnest Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton; FIGHT CLUB) and his persona of Smoochy the Rhino. This doesn't bode well for Rainbow Rudolph and he plots revenge on Smoochy. Sound ridiculous? It is. 	But it's meant to be. This isn't a great comedy but it has its moments. However, I expected more from the talent involved. I thought Danny Devito made a great comedy with THROW MAMMA FROM THE TRAIN and I guess I just wanted this film to be  a little more like that one. Not bad, worth a rental just for Norton and Williams performances.   "},{"Title":"Recipe for a flop","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Start with a talented cast, a good, if offbeat, director and a clever premise that could be fun for all ages. Then you load the script with as much profanity as possible and count on the R rating to drive away your prime customers.Smoochy could have been cleaned up to a PG with little or no effort on anyone's part. Does Hollywood really believe that there's an advocacy group out there pushing for more foul language? Has any reviewer ever panned a film because there wasn't enough use of the F-word?So Smoochy ultimately has to be considered a pleasant enough diversion that's more memorable for its shortcomings than its accomplishments. In different hands, it coulda been a contender. "},{"Title":"Very funny movie!!!","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death To Smoochy! I was really looking forward to this film, and I was not disappointed! Though not as funny as hoping, it was still a really great movie.Robin Williams plays Rainbow Randolph, a child's television star who is on top of the world. However, when he is caught in a very bad position, he is quickly replaced by Smoochy, a pink rhino (played by Edward Norton).With a great cast like Danny DeVito and Catherine Keener, the laughs are all about. Be wary though, this movie is full of vulgar language and is not suitable for children (as my neighbour found out!!!).Give this movie a try to see some classic Robin Williams. "},{"Title":"Bah! Be More Funny!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's dark comedy and then there's just dark. If I'm not laughing, then there's no comedy. Danny DeVito is a good director but there are a lot of bad choices made in Death To Smoochy. Robin Williams isn't funny anymore, indeed, some argue that he never was to begin with. His character comes across as a maniac BEFORE he falls from grace...how did acquire the delicate position of children's show host in the first place? Ed Norton does a great job but his character is so illogically one-dimension it's more pitiful than amusing. Why is he so shockingly naive? What does that have to do with being a children's entertainer? Or a health-food nut? A funny script would let me overlook stuff like this, but that's no where to be found. "},{"Title":"Enjoy, twisted comedy lovers!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I suppose the reason this movie got so many horrid reviews is the same reason 'The Royal Tenenbaums' got such a hard time from critics.  Twisted, dark satirical humor apparently has no place in the mainstream.  But who cares?  We, the twisted ones, are now getting a fair share of comedies for ourselves.  'Death to Smoochy' is a zany ride through the side of children's television the network execs don't want you to see.  Great cast (even the small roles), an often hilarious script, and excellent direction by Danny DeVito.  Highly recommended if you enjoy dark comedy. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams Saves The Day!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love Robin Williams as a comedian. From Mork & Mindy to Death To Smoochy, I enjoyed many pieces of Robin Williams' work. Fortunately for him, he was the savior in Death To Smoochy. I loved the cast, but it seems that all the funny scenes belonged to Robin Williams. That is not a bad thing. Robin is joined by Edward Norton and Catherine Keenan, two very good actors. Edward Norton was amusing and Catherine Keenan had a few lines that made me chuckle, but it was all Robin Williams who stole the show. If you really want a good laugh, check out the scene where Robin is being escorted out of the police station. You will die laughing! "},{"Title":"Really underrated","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The critics hated this movie. I can't see why? It's really funny. The humor is both stupid and smart. Danny Devito has another black comedy classic. The most surprsing thing about it is Ed Norton. I've never seen him do comedy before. He's hilarious. Robin Williams is crazy. He's really over the top and mean. The humor comes really fast and some of it is mean spirited(in a good way). You should see if you have a weird sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Superficial scan says great disappointment. Can't find a hook","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected lots of users reviews, lots of pro and con.  I would expect DTS to generate different opinions.  It struck me mid-way through as a love ir or hate it film.  I wanted to see Robin Williams do well.  Curious at the teaming of Williams and Norton.  Couldn't find any hook to say, Now THAT'S what makes DTS worthwhile.What is it?  Visually, it's part FISHER KING, part PATCH ADAMS, part THE WIZ, part KEEPING THE FAITH.  OK, it's a melodrama about two men fighting for the same spot.  Genial song and dance leader of a children's show in a lucrative time spot.  The incumbent relishes the product tie-ins, the celebrity, and cash.  The challenger--put in place because of a scandal that needs damage control--is a health food nut who sees an opportunity to steer kids away from sugar, flour, fat, and salt-- the staples of junk food America.What a set up; but what a waste.  The network execs are slightly believable.  Next up are the crooks, the less visable, the more credible.The leads, the so-talented Robins and Norton, are given unforgivable parts and scripts, to reenact over and over the struggle between good and evil, several times too often, in various guises, until you the film viewer want to throw up your hands, eliminate any song and dance, and run old cartoons in the time-slot.For future reference, this film is a stepping stone for Catherine Keener.  Her Olympian** cheekbones and believable is slightly IM-perfect beauty is usually given the once or twice over by busy cameras and demanding scripts.  In DTS, she steals the show over and over.  Others have commented on her sexuality.  Not to take away from that, but she also excelled at portraying the dryed up affect-drained VP who had no emotional investment in the people and the moral dramas around her.Four for the film.  Eight for Keener.**Olympus, not Olympics "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fun...","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really did not want to see this movie, but lately the sleeper comedies have been surprisingly good. (i.e. Kung Pow Enter the Fist) Robin Williams seems to be making a great diverse career explosion, and Death to Smoochy is the liveliest (and most original) I've seen him for years. The plot has this great Danny DiVito pacing (like War of the Roses) mixing cheap, but funny gags with charming sentimentality and refreshingly original, yet melodramatically complex characters. Edward Norton seems to do his best Woody Harrelson impression in this role (which works, thanks to his mad skills) and is so sweet and unjaded that he almost gives hope to even the most embittered television bulldog execs. Altogether, the flick was light, funny, original and genuinely cute, allowing even Catherine Keener to use what makes her likeable onscreen (her ability to be a cold bit*h on the outside with the possibility of a honestly good person somewhere inside.) "},{"Title":"Uneven but funny","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is not a totally funny movie, but in the way of a black comedy it works.  Some of it is very funny, although we've seen Robin Williams this frenetic before, but his dark side added to the freneticism is what makes this performance worth watching.  Ed Norton's constantly changing hair style got to me!  He probably got his hair cut midway through the shooting schedule and when the pieces were edited together for the storyline, his hair kept changing length and style.  Using Harvey Fierstein the way they do in this film is really interesting--a really good job!  The Irish momma, whoever she was, was excellent.  And Danny DeVito is quite good.Some very funny business and lines, though.  However, the ending credits are brainless and they go on too long.Has anyone tried to read the DVD in their computer?  On the DVD it says to put it into the computer.  I thought there might be some kind of interactive stuff on the disk, but nothing appeared. "}{"Title":"Entertaining but overwrought","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  (ONE BIG SPOILER BELOW!!!) Certainly worth watching on video, if for no other reason than to catch Edward Norton's great-ish performance as Smoochy, the New Millenium Barney and Candide all wrapped up in one. Unfortunately, Robin Williams as his main nemesis plays the same hyperkinetic character he has played in endless films, although he has a couple of funny moments. He isn't the star, thank God, and does not appear in large segments of the movie. The plot is paper-thin and the movie goes on far too long. It is just not particularly funny and a lot of the attempts at humor feel strained. That's director Danny DeVito's fault and no one else's. But it is mildly entertaining and if you can stay with it, there is a clever, and very odd, fantasy-on-ice schtick at the end. Once you have seen this black comedy-cum-sappy up-with-people plot, imagine a director like Terry Gilliam at the helm instead of Danny DeVito. Now for one huge plot hole Norton is convinced by various and sundry folks to authorize a Smoochy ice show, which he ultimately decides to star in himself. This allows for an exciting if contrived climax, when a hired gun tries to take Norton out while the show is going on. But why does Norton star in the show in the first place? There isn't a single hint given during the entire movie that Norton's character would know how to skate well enough to star in an ice show. And even if he were a champion skater, which again I must point out is not established, where would he find the time and why would he bother when he has a TV show to put on? The character he plays is in a costume that would make it impossible to tell who is in the suit. Wouldn't it have logically been played by a professional ice skater? On the other hand, if you think of the movie as pure fantasy, it makes a little more sense. But the movie is not a fantasy. Anyhow, it's worth watching on a slow Saturday night, for the performances if nothing else. DeVito as Smoochy's unscrupulous agent hams it up throughout, as does Harvey Feierstein as a mob boss, but some of the other characters are pretty well played. Such as Pam Farris as the head of a tough Irish family and Katherine Keener as a network VP. "},{"Title":"If you nitpick this movie for the dummiest reasons, then you have no life.","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a funny movie, a funny dark look in the world of childrens television. Sheldon Mopes(Edward Norton) who does Smoochy the Rhino act at Drug clinics, is approaced to his own childrens show. But the fun in that starts to fade, when he begins butting heads with the producer(Catherine Keener), and is threatend by Rainbow Randolph(The very funny Robin Williams) a former childrens show host who wants his old job back. But these things are gonna become the least of his problems, when the underworld is gonna wanna piece of him. When Sheldon refuses to play at there level. This movie shines well, funny performances by Robin Williams, Edward Norton, and Catherine Keener. And it is also well directed by Danny Devito. This was funny to the max. Please don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Lots o' fun","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a great film!  I really didn't know what this was about until I watched it.  Robin Williams, Ed Norton, Danny DeVito and Catherine Keener are absolutely fabulous in this film!  Take time to watch this *VERY TWISTED* comedy. "},{"Title":"Where does meaning reside?","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Can a film, in and of itself, have meaning?  I am NOT asking whether or not a filmmaker intends a film to have meaning, but rather if the film can (truly) convey his or her vision.  I think that DTS, and its comment index, proves that although a film may have varying degrees of success in imparting what directors/actors/etc. INTEND most of a film's meaning comes from its audience.  I highly commend those of you who picked up on (or inserted, depending on your perspective) subversive, humorous, interesting, etc. meanings from the film.  I also understand the perspective of those of you who felt the film failed, was stupid or pointless.  Neither side is entirely correct, however.I felt that Keener, Williams and (especially) Norton did a fabulous job with a script that more than occasionally did not live up to its potential.  The film did not maintain the boisterous energy it began and ended with; several sections in the middle lagged more than a little.  But the costumes and sets compensated somewhat.  And you could always try to remember children's television in the 80's and laugh hysterically when bored.  And hell, who doesn't like the Irish mob and the ice capades?  I certainly did not feel like it was a waste of my time or that I should send angry letters to Danny DeVito~Overall, I gave the film a 6/10 (based mainly on good performances).  I took it as a rather light bit of highly ironic commentary on the state on entertainment, a category in which Singing' in the Rain will always rule in my heart, and left it at that.  For those of you who went further kudos, but realize that you are responsible and engaged in an intellectual endeavor.  For those who did not go so far, I tend to think that both sides dropped a ball. "},{"Title":"This movie is hesterical","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie with my 2 friends.  It was just plain hesterical.  I dont know why critics bashed this movie so much.  Edward Norton did a perfect job, and so did Robin Williams.  People were so upset about its scenes of violence and profanity, but it is just a movie.  In my opinion, if you hate Barney and need a laugh see this movie. "},{"Title":"WoW!","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just rented 'Death To Smoochy' which was very funny and amuseing. Robin Williams playing Rainbow Randal, KidNet's star tv show host. He gets caught by making people pay for their kids to be on his show. He gets fired. He gets replaced by a Barney compy, Smoocy the Rhino, the squeaky clean man who is always nice and loving but despised by others (Jon Stewart, Cathrine Keener and obviously Robin Williams) until... Sorry I can't tell you the ending it would be such a spoil. Starring Robin Williams, Edward Norton, Cathrine Keener, Danny DeVito and Jon Stewart MPAA Rating R for language and sexual references My Rating R for strong language, sinister thematic material and sexual content "},{"Title":"Funny and Misunderstood","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed Death to Smoochy.It was a funny and enjoyable dark comedy. It didn't deserve the lashing it took.This movie is weird,a little vulger and I can understand why some people may of missed the point,but I didn't.Robin Williams is just terrific in this movie.This was a really great role for him that fit him like a glove.He was just hilarious in this.I think this movie works for him because he's actually being FUNNY in it. He cleary wore out the feel good teddy bear roles (Patch Adams was good but Bicentennial Man didn't work as well) and now he's trying the villianous roles of Insomnia and One Hour Photo,and in spite of what critics think,I think he's just plain wrong as the villian.It just does not work and the idea of it is forced on us.Here,he does what he does best, and that's being funny. I set this apart from his villianous roles because ---SPOILERS---In the end we find out Rainbow Randolph isn't such a bad guy after all.---END SPOILERS---Edward Norton is very good in this movie though,as is Catherine Keener, Danny DeVito and Jon Stewart.This is a very good cast and that is put to good use.Even though much as been said about this movie being a look at the dark side of children's television,and a good deal of it is dark, ---SPOILERS---what is overlooked is that the ending is actually very happy and uplifting,which is nice. )---END SPOILERS---Overall,Death to Smoochy isn't for everyone but I liked it and it made me laugh,sometimes very hard at times.I can see this movie getting cult status at some point in the future.Rating 8 of 10  "},{"Title":"oops","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Oops, sorry for writing two virtually identical reviews for DTS. I thought the first one failed to go through to IMDB.COM. Sorry for the mix-up. I am a dorkThe movie really did suck though. P.S. Seriously, I want my money back. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Lame","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I actually had high expectations for this one when it came out. I was really surprised at how lame DTS was. The script was hackneyed and juvenile. The characters were pointlessly crude and unlikeable. Most of the situations that they were put in were just not that funny and or too unrealistic ( yes even in a cartoonish satire there must be some level of believability ). DeVito and Resnick even found a way to completely suck the funny out of the normally hilarious Jon Stewart.*** Uh Oh Possible Spoilers***So Robin Williams plays Rainbow Randolph a children's television institution and beloved AMERICAN ICON. So naturally after being caught accepting a bribe (oooohhh..) he is fired, disgraced and banished from his incredably successful show. Yeah Right! Any NON-SEXUAL scandal involving a t.v. star would probably not last long in today's media. The Rainbow Randolph scandal might have been in the news for maybe a week or so before it was spun out of the news cycle and forgotten altogether. The entire premise that a network would sink a wildly successful kids show because of a week of bad press is laughable not to mention unprofitable. And why would Rainbow take this bribe? Who knows- Mr. DeVito apparently does not seem to think that the audience needs to know much background info on this sad clown. We first see him in a bar as basically lonely, foul-mouthed drunk. Why is this t.v. star with potentially so much to lose so pathetic? Why is he portrayed so crudely and unlikable? Why on Earth is the audience supposed to care about what happens to this creep?  Dunno. Why would a huge Kids t.v. network be so quick to dump a successful show especially when they have no replacement lined up? Dunno. Why are we supposed to find the notion of a disgraced t.v. clown crashing his replacement's show and using foul language (how 'bout another dick joke lil' Timmy!?!) in front children funny? Is it supposed to be funny when a disgraced t.v. clown attempts to kill himself (via self-immolation) in a fit of self-pity, again in front of a bunch of children in Times Square? WOW Freakin' Hilarious!! OK, ok we get it; people (even in children's television) can be really corrupt. Wow, what a revelation. Anyone who has picked up a paper in oh, I dunno, the past several hundred years could have told you that. Mr. DeVito and his financiers might not have felt compelled to make this comedy full of grim, unlikable characters set in idiotic and pointlessly crude situations if somebody had pointed that out to him. Please don't get me wrong, I think that DeVito has done some great work in the past, the same goes with the rest of the cast. That makes this stinkburger all the more difficult to figure out. Is this really the best project these guys had to work on? Seriously? I mean Cuckoo's Nest to this? Honestly, there were a few funny lines in DTS, but overall it was a joyless mess. The lame ice-skating sequence at the end just gave the audience more time contemplate the two hours or so they just lost from their lives. I can not recommend this film for any other reason than to see the very talented Robin Williams at his over-the-top worst. Thank God for Insomnia and 1 Hour Photo.  "},{"Title":"Attempting to commit suicide in front of children - WOW Thats FUNNY!! Thanks Danny!!  !!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am baffled by the positive reviews for DTS. This has so far been one of the worst big-budget movies that I have seen since The Mexican. The suppossedly outrageous black humor just fell flat to me. The gags were poorly set up and way over the top. ***UH OH SPOILERS***The movie is barely two minutes old when Rainbow Roberts is busted for taking bribes. We have no background info on his character other than he appears to be a lonely grump of a childrens talk-show host who might drink too much. OOOOOHHHH, NO!! How unbelievable! A t.v. character might not be who he seems! WOW - What a shock! He immediatly is made out to be the biggest pariah in America and loses his show and pretty much everything else. Puleease! A Non-Sexual scandal scenario like that would have been forgotten about in about a week in modern America. Rainbow Roberts and network spin-doctors would have made sure that this story was downplayed to the point of non-interest in less than 2 weeks. Public Relations is a very big businesss, Life would definately go on. This whole movie was chocked full of incomplete,unpleasant,unbelievable and unsympathetic characters. Frankly by the time the movie was mercifully over, I did not really care about any of these people. I just wanted to go - Anywhere out of the theater. The content and timing of the jokes are really suspect as well. Is it really funny for a former t.v. clown to try to set fire to himself in front of a bunch of children!?! I usually like, or am at least not offended by dark and satirical humor, however I found very little to laugh at in DTS. The jokes were either way too obvious and broad, or just plain brutally mean and dumb.The movie was way too uneven and ultimately too insulting to recommend. DeVito has made me laugh in the past, perhaps this one just got away from him.  "}{"Title":"Fellini meets Tarantino","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the best film I've seen so far this year.  I was very sorry I listened to the critics and waited as long as I did.  It was laugh out loud funny, with a very twisted sense of humor and some great performances, especially from Edward Norton (If Fight Club and American History X convinced me he was good, this movie convinced me he is truly great--after all, dying is easy it's comedy that's hard).The critics are morons.  Perhaps in this post 9/11 world it irony truly is dead. It presented us with a cynic's view of the children's entertainment industry which was probably pretty disturbing to some but which I have long suspected to be close to the truth.   I can think of no good reason for people not to like this movie.  Go see it. Now.  "},{"Title":"Certainly has its moments.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to Smoochy was not a non-stop laugh-a-thon, but once it got started, it was hilarious.  Toward the beginning of this movie, I thought it was just a but too unrealistic for a movie, but would make a pretty good play, because it's much easier to do that with a play. Eventually, however, it was just too much.  I was laughing so hard I was afraid I might pee. Here are a few of my favorite lines When my brothers and I played cowboys and Indians, I was always the Chinese railroad worker! Did you tell him about Willy the Whale?  Thar she blows! For a few years I was...I was...a Kiddie Show Groupie. A funny movie. See it. "},{"Title":"Fun for all","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this film is something that can truly make the world a better place. The panning its getting from the critics is completely unjustified. The acting was phenomenal.  Edward Norton and Robin Williams could have played either of the main characters quite easily.  The juxtaposition (sp?) between the kiddy-land-Barney aspect and the gangland-underworld aspect gave the film a kind of dark humor which I found appealing, although if you're blatantly and overly white bread and normal, I suppose it would be a bit jarring.  This is an entertaining movie which, while not having the all encompassing message many supposedly great films have, it has an unlimited supply of short quibs you'll be laughing at and then thinking about later (my stepdad's not mean; he's just adjusting) .  Entertaining and educational.  Definitely worth the 5 bucks to see it.  It is an anti-establishment film, and therefore good for those who are anti-establishment.  Those of you for the establishment, identical suburban housing, multiple identical ties, and banana yellow sweater-vests should not see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams as he should be","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was altogether twisted.  Good, but twisted.  However, it's great that Robin Williams did this kind of movie.  He kind of killed himself by doing movies such as Bicentennial Man and Jack.  Granted some of these movies were pretty funny, but he got to the point where he made too many of those movies.  We needed to see the crazy-funny side to him that we saw in Good Morning Vietnam or The Fisher King.  This film brings him back to those kinds of roles.However, Williams character in this movie is pitiful.  His acting is great, but the character he plays, by nature, is a egomaniac.  He plays a kids TV show host, Rainbow Randolph, who gets caught by the FBI for taking bribes.  His show is cancelled, and the network that carried his show tried to look for a TV show with a guy who was 100% clean cut without even the most minor offense to his or her name.  So enters Smoochy, a purple rhinocerous played by Edward Norton, who is 100% clean and lives up to his image.  He goes from Playing guitar in a drug rehab clinic to hosting a hugely successful kids show.Randolph, pathetic as he is, tries to bring Smoochy down.  However, in a complex twist of plot, Randolph's not the only one, and so tells this very dark comedy.Williams is excellent as Rainbow Randolph.  You see this guy as totally pathetic, and it's brilliant!  Is is sort of a shocker to hear the same guy who played the Genie in Aladdin say I'm Rainbow F**king Randolph! every nwo and then, but Williams broke the mold.  Good for him.Edward Norton is also great as the clean cut but naive kids show icon.  This part fit him pretty well, and he did a great job with it.  There were some twists of the plot and reversals of good and evil in this movie, but overall the movie was not bad.  For a dark comedy, it had a reasonably happy ending which was largely unexpected.  However, it was a movie worth paying 8 bucks to see. "},{"Title":"against the grain","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first I was confused about where this film was headed but it turned out to be the only movie I have seen in a while where I wasn't constantly looking at my watch for the last hour.  Time seems to move by fairly quickly watching edward norton do anything... for me anyway.Very funny and I really don't understand why the bad reviews. Why would a piece of crap movie like 'Frailty' get good reviews and not this film?  oh... I know... we love horror movies now... I forgot.8 out 0f 10cheers! "},{"Title":"Dark, cynical, warped and FUNNY!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are a fan of dark humor you will love Smoochy. Ed Norton plays a character too good to recognize the bad surrounding him, Danny DeVito as his agent, and Robin Williams plays a great psychotic villain.A real change. Who knew! Catherine Keener works wonders as a corporate exec who experiences a sort of revelation at the end. The real target of the film however, as hinted at in the trailer, is the inner workings of the entertainment industry itself, with all of it's behind the scenes double dealing, hidden agendas and disposable people.Recommended! "},{"Title":"Check your underbelly.","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had seen previews for Death to Smoochy and was eagerly anticipating its release when I went out to see it opening night.  I am a fan of the dark comedy and this one kept me rolling as much as the seats in our new theater would allow.Shortly afterwards, I got to talking with a friend of mine about the movie, and an interesting line of conversation arose.  In America, we seem to have this peculiar notion that everything has a dark underbelly.  In the case of Smoochy, this happens to be children's television.  Think about it. There is not a single organization (or individual, for that matter) that is not suspected of being somehow secretly underhanded.  We expect that even the best of people will one day end up as the cover story of 20/20 or Dateline.I cannot say when this sort of thinking began in our country.  Most likely, its foundations were laid in the 60s and grew ever more hungry as the decades passed, perhaps culminating in the televangelist scandals of the 80s.  Regardless, here it is and its likely here to stay.DeVito's film paints a fascinating picture of the kids' TV underworld, which is desperate to find a character with real integrity as the movie opens. And yet, this better-than-perfect television savior is systematically mocked and taken advantage of throughout the picture.  As a viewer, I too was searching for the tragic flaw that would bring him to his knees like the rest of the slime with whom he mingled.All in all, one can learn a valuable lesson from DeVito's laughably twisted film.  Sure, every person and every organization has its flaws and failures. Which is why when someone doesn't appear to be flawed, he becomes comical. The important thing is that despite these drawbacks in character, we can work toward the good of things that are important and valuable, e.g., Catherine Keener's character and Robin Williams's character by the end. "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Saw this movie in spite of the bad reviews because of some of the comments here.  The humor was certainly dark but mostly funny.  The songs written for the movie were hilarious as were Robin Williams and Edward Norton.  It's not the best movie ever but I'm glad I threw caution to wind - it was certainly worth the cost of a matinee. Go see it.  "},{"Title":"An epic comic wonder!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A devilish, madcap helium injection, Death to Smoochy plunks the funnybone like the strings on a guitar. Edward Norton is eternally-shimmers with comic effervescence, Catherine Keener breathes zesty eroticism and wit, and Robin Williams acts with bad-boy apblomb in his greatest maniacal tour-de-force in years! With Death to Smoochy, Danny Devito has truly reached a precipice of comic delirium; may his reign forever shine.  "},{"Title":"potential","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the movie on opening day with an extra in the film, so I admit I may be a bit biased. This movie has potential.  If they only cleaned up the language, to PG13 standards, it would make a good kids movie, too.   Otherwise, I'm not sure I can recommend it to acquaintances. "}{"Title":"It's all about Robin.","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There was a time towards the middle of this film that I began to regret having spent the 8 dollars to see it.  That notion was quickly dispelled during a particularly hilarious sequence where the thoroughly dispirited and black-eyed kiddy show host Rainbow Randolph (Robin Williams) is being hauled out of a police station yelling Somebody just touched my ass! while the paparazzi swarm around him.  After I dried my eyes from laughing so hard, my confidence was renewed as the master of improvisation delivered one gut busting anecdote after another.  Robin delivered the goods in this one. Go see it. "},{"Title":"cast waste","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not eager to waste more time on this movie, but I wasted $17 taking an old friend to this generally unfunny film and hope to save others time and money. I enjoy most of the people in this cast -- particularly Ed Norton -- and heard a review suggesting that it was a good role for Robin Williams. I don't agree, and my friend and I eagerly walked out on this one as soon as Smoochy began playing at a Nazi convention. What a wacky, over-the-top, madcap, krazy thing to happen! (The concept wasn't clever last year in Rat Race -- now it's both derivative and un-clever.) If you love Danny DeVito movies, or if you loved Rat Race, then you'll probably enjoy this. Otherwise, you've been warned. "},{"Title":"Good dark comedy, just like DeVito likes it!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was very interesting.  I love Danny D's way of directing.  His ability to blend humor into a rather dark plot is very crafty.  I liked Robin William's character and the way he was completely psycho. He cussed in this movie more than any of his OTHER movies.  He was so furious about Ed Norton taking his TIMESLOT that he went mad!  The chemistry between Ed Norton and Nora was interesting.  She insulted him like crazy for most of the movie and then finally fell in love with him.  That was a bit far fetched.  I liked her more when she was sassy and not sappy.  As for the retarded boxer, Spinner, he was FUNNY!  He had some of the best acting ability to play a retarded man that I have ever seen!  Look out SEAN PENN, Spinner is in town!!  There is also this underlying plot involving GANGS (an irish one and a mafia type one).  The violence is rather harsh in that department but you never see blood etc.  There are great scenes involving the steps that Robin Williams takes to ruin Ed Norton such as the NAZI scene.  All in all I would say to SEE THIS MOVIE NOW!!  The only bad thing about this is SPOILER ALERT that Robin Williams turns from BAD to GOOD within seconds.  That was a tad odd.  Other than that minor setback, Death to Smoochy is LIFE TO DANNY DEVITO (at the next Oscars).  I smell OSCAR Danny!!!! "},{"Title":"I knew it was going to be bad","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What can I say? Every review called it terrible, every one of them. However, I just had to see a movie and that was the only one starting when I got to the theater. So, I decided to open up my mind and give it a fair chance. Well, it wasn't very good. The story bills itself as being dark, but it really wasn't. What it was, was boring! That is the one thing that I keep thinking of when I reflect on this movie, is how boring it was. Unrealistic? sure. Simplistic? sure. Boring? and how! If you are a huge fan of Norton or Williams, then I guess you will be entertained, maybe. However, if you are looking for something fresh and innovative, go rent Donnie Darko or something else. No real insight, no real flash. * out of **** "},{"Title":"loved this movie","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can see why some people wouldn't like this movie.  But I loved it.  I love anything Edward Norton does anyway. I am such a big fan of his.  Robin Williams is funny in just about anything he does. I loved how he hated Smoochy.  One of my favorite parts was when Rainbow Randolph was beating the TV with a candlestick because Smoochy was on and he was saying things like die you illegitimate teletubbie!!  die you muppet from hell!     I also loved how Randolph was always getting hurt.  But you couldn't help but love Sheldon Mopes (Norton). He was just so nice and never said anything negative. And Catherine Keener's character  kind of frustrated me because she was so hard on Sheldon. But this was a very funny movie.  I was laughing out loud. The cookie scene was pretty funny. But this was definitely worth the price of the movie ticket.   Long live Smoochy!! "},{"Title":"it's a, it's a...it's a rocket ship!!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i absolutely loved this movie! it was full of memorably hilarious quotes and not to mention a hot leading man!! i love edward norton!! robin william's rainbow randolf freaked me out when he went over the edge, spinner's little comedy relief was cheesy but likeable, and nora's sudden change in attitude towards sheldon mopes was a little flaky. the colors were amazing and the songs annoying barney-esqe. overall, i really enjoyed this movie and plan to own it when it's available on tape. now i'm going to HALT, you know HALT? hungry, angry, lonely, tired--that's what you are, and i'm not going to get sucked in by your negative engery. if you need me, i'll be in my office...it's the big one, w/ view!LOL "},{"Title":"The Funniest Black Comedy of the year","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw Death to smoochy hoping it would be funny. Well it was it is the funniest black comedy I've seen in years. I've always like Danny DeVito and the work he has done and it continues with death to smoochy. If your thinking about going to see this movie but dont know because of what the critic's or because the poll about the razzie awards dont listen you have no idea what your missing.And please if your a parent have some common sense not taking your kid to go see this because this movie was on the verge of getting sued if you notice they say Parents are always looking for a movie to take their kids to this is not one of them it's rated R for a reason. But if your a barney loather this movie if for you or if your just in the mood for a good laugh go see Death to smoochy*****(out of)***** "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Dark Movies I've seen in awhile.","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams has done some great movies in his time...then he has done some that well all have forgotten.  This, most people will forget, most people didn't even like it or care to see.  I was lucky enough to see this film...and i loved it.  The film, directed by Danny DeVito and written by Adam Resnick, follows Rainbow Randolph Smiley(Robin Williams) a beloved kid TV show host that gets caught taking a payment by parents of a child to make sure their child would dance on his show.  He is fired from the show by the producers, M. Frank Stokes( Jon Stewart) and Nora Wells(Catherine Keener)and adventally replace him with 'Smoochy'(Edward Norton).  Sheldon Mopes(Edward Norton), the name of the man that plays Smoochy, is an all aound good, clean guy.  He doesn't like violence, doesn't curse, and doesn't even want to take money from the public for apperances; he is the good person that Smoochy is, he's the real deal. Rainbow Randolph is jealous, he's filled with complete hatred for Smoochy, he wants to kill Smoochy for taking his time slot.  He stalks Smoochy, he tries to make Smoochy look like a fool, he all around just wants his old life back, after getting fired he looses everything, including his sanity.  The film just follows all the tries of Rainbow to get his life back and even throws in a little love story between Nora and Sheldon.  I feel most people won't like this movie because it's to dark for them to see the comedy in it, there are a few dark moments whee u think ' Can DeVito get away with this?'  I thought the comedy was done great, I laughed more in this movie then i have in other comedies that were taglined as comedies.  I think the best performance in this movie is Robin Williams as Rainbow Randolph, he goes off the deep end, he puts everything he has in it and just goes wild, just like the character is, wild.  Norton is just fine as the do-gooder Mopes, but even though he is funny, Williams just makes you forget everybody else is in the movie, you can't wait to see what he puts Smoochy through next.  This movie won't be popular, they will go see junk such as  Panic Room and miss out on a chance to see a film they won't soon forget. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very disturbing movie with Robin Williams as a psychotic ousted kiddie show host.  It is very very very unreal to see Robin Williams in a role like this.  He is totally out of his fun loving character that we all know him as But it was interesting to watch only because Williams was playing such an unusual role AND**Spoiler Warning**The movie is grim but the ending will leave you with a smile on your face.  Yes, Robin made a comeback and he's back to his fun loving self.  We can all breathe a  huge sigh of relief and dance the Smoochy Jazzy Jig. "},{"Title":"Going over the top sometimes works... and it does here","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The ambiance that I got while watching Death to Smoochy was similar to the one I got while watching Tim Burton's sci-fi spoof Mars Attacks! Both movies take their subject matter to such an extreme that they almost end up being a parody of themselves, and neither seems to care of what the consequences will be. The question is, does it work? Mars Attacks! didn't work because the sci-fi spoof had been done better... but Death to Smoochy works because it's fresh, demanding, and above all else, hilariously funny.Robin Williams makes the best of an underwritten role, making sure that you have just the right amount of sympathy for his character. (This ends up going two ways, but I won't say how.) Edward Norton usually doesn't play this type of role - normally, you'd see him in roles like the one Williams has here) but he mixes the over-idealism of Sheldon with real-world sensibility perfectly. Catherine Keener's change from a overzealous, filthy-mouthed producer seems a bit artificial, but the realism of Sheldon's change more than makes up for it.The movie can be overly and needlessly dark at times, but this works because it's directly in contrast with the happy-go-lucky attitude of the on-camera world of children's television. Things move along very quickly, but again, that's part of the satire. And yes, there is no shortage of criminally annoying sing-alongs and dance numbers, but you know what they're there for. In short, the film hits you on the head repeatedly with what it's talking about, and by the end, it's enough to make you pay attention... 8/10 "}{"Title":"Great one-liners, but...","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to say I was disappointed by this movie.  With the cast it has, my expectations were high.  Unfortunately, the script was not well written.  It was very disjointed, consequently, the movie didn't flow at all.  But there are some great one-liners! Some individual performances were noteworthy loved Harvey Fierstein! and I think Ed Norton was great!  I'd love to ask him if his eyelids hurt at the end of each day's shoot...I could never keep my eyes THAT wide open all the time...LOL My advice Wait until it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Death to Movie","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I haven't watched an Edward Norton movie that I didn't like. I liked this movie though but it came close. The movie seemed to be very anti-climatic. It's suppose to be a comedy yet I didn't once laugh out loud. During action movies you are supposed to be thrilled and excited, during horror movies you should be scared but with this movie you kinda don't feel anything. Its very boring in a lot of parts. I guess you could say that it had its moments. Nothing I would buy on DVD. I guess thats the best way of putting it. Norton should stick to movies like Fight Club and AHX. Even The Score was better then this.7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can understand why this film wouldn't do very well. But I enjoyed this film.  It was very funny and It kept me entertained. I love Edward Norton and Robin Williams always makes me laugh. The funniest parts to me were when Robin was getting hurt or when he went crazy everytime he saw or heard Smoochy. Edward Norton was perfect for this role. He was so incredibly nice and most of the things he said were funny. Catherine Keener's performance was good and Danny DeVito was creepy. I loved the part where Smoochy pulled out the cookie.  Those of you who've seen it know what I'm talking about. This movie was definitely worth the movie ticket.  It kept me laughing!!  "},{"Title":"Sloppy story structure","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was another frustrating exercise in what should have been a funnier movie. The premise and subject matter is ripe for satire, but sloppy story structure robbed it of any originality. It was obvious that in order for Robin Williams to redeem himself(and I guess he has to, maybe it's in his contract), the second threat of the gangster-like charity group had to enter the mix. Williams' character should have been the only antagonist in the film. Another gripe yet again...all have to live happily ever after. This may apply to a kid's film, but with the language and situation, this was definitely not a film for kids. There were some witty lines and funny set-pieces, but with a tighter script and a little more daring, this could have been a truly funny and original film.  "},{"Title":"What Children's Entertainers have been waiting for! (SPOILER ALERT)","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, the guy that left the comment about being in a half-full theater of people laughing must have been at my theater.  Working in children's entertainment at a major Orlando theme park, we critters have been praying, begging, and wishing for a film like this to shed some light on what we do.It's not often that a film captures completely and totally the amount of behind the scenes actions that really go on behind some of our most beloved icons.  Sure, the characters curse, they scream, they get drunk....what do you think we do??? It's so easy to identify with the always brilliant Norton's Mopes, wanting to do so much for the kids, to keep it pure and clean and simple, but all the time being pushed from every direction to sell, sell, sell and get all the money you can.  This is our life, to a T.*SPOILER HERE* When Norton pulls out his gun, he becomes a personal hero for every single one of us.  There's not a one among us that hasn't just wanted to pistol-whip someone.  A second alternative would have been for him to use his Smoochy head as a weapon. *End Of Spoiler*It's dark, it's raunchy, it's two sides against each other, full of craziness, satire, and best of all, Ed Norton in all his excellence.  This is officially my favorite film of all time.    "},{"Title":"Just wasn't funny","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Contains some spoilers.I'd like to start out by saying that I love black comedies. Even ones like Very Bad Things. And Election is one of my favorite movies. I also really like most of Danny Devito's other movies (Throw Momma From the Train and War of the Roses).That being said, I didn't like Death to Smoochy. The main reason being that I did not think it was that dark of a comedy.Dark comedy is making patte out of a dog then serving it to its owner (War of the Roses (I know it didn't really happen, but still...)). Its a high school teacher thinking of one of his students as he has sex with his wife (Election). Its systematically killing off your classmates and staging them as liberating suicides (Heathers). All these instances go beyond the social limitations of its time, crossing lines of what people can do to achieve their goals. It is *not* penis-shaped cookies being shown to little kids. That is no more than a plain bathroom sight gag. Nor is it singing kids songs in front of a Nazi convention or having sex with a man in Barney suit. These instances only provide slightly humorous situations, but do not break any social conventions. Dark comedy has to hit you with a mac truck when you're looking the other way. Death to Smoochy taps you on the shoulder, then gives you a bad joke.I keep going over other scenes in Death to Smoochy (the Nazi convention, the ice skating, etc.) and I fail to see the dark humor, or any humor for that matter. Is it only funny because they're hosts of kid shows? I find that to be way too small of a reason to make it humorous. And every other aspect of the movie is generic. In the other movies I mentioned, the humor comes from the twisted things the characters do, and its disturbing regardless of who they are. In Death to Smoochy, no character does anything really outrageous. Rainbow seeks revenge on Smoochy, and does some pretty standard things to get that revenge. What, he plants him at a Nazi convention? Whoopdee-frickin-doo, that's hilarious - sarcasm. A very similar thing happens in Rat Race, which is your standard screwball comedy, and it wasn't terribly funny there either. Then theres the former boxer with no rhythm. He gets a few chuckles here and there, but again, just some standard shtick. Maybe I'm too jaded, but I just didn't find these scenes (or most others, but I won't go into all of them) funny in any respect.The movie does have some funny parts the songs we're pretty good, the cookies got a laugh, and maybe a couple of other scenes. But in the end, where's this dark comedy that everyone talks about? What twisted things do these characters do? I sure can't find them. The characters have some pretty normal desires, and go about fulfilling them in some fairly normal ways, whether it was through a hitman, an agent, or an old fashioned gun. That is *not* dark comedy. Dark comedy would have the characters doing demented things to get the job done, like the ones I mentioned before. The characters in Death to Smoochy do nothing we haven't seen many times before in other movies.And since when do dark comedies have happy endings? Doesn't that go against the standards of a dark comedy? And the ending of Death to Smoochy isn't just happy, its serene. A bad choice in my book.Bottom line if you're a fan of dark comedies, don't expect anything original here. And if you aren't a fan of dark comedies, stay away all together. "},{"Title":"death to death to smoochy","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the future, before seeing ANY film, I am going to check for an Adam Resnick writing credit.  Quite possibly the worst movie of all time. Sad, pathetic, futile, and pointless were some of the words running through my head while watching this seemingly endless stretch of celluloid. Ridiculous miscastings (HARVEY FIERSTEIN as a mob boss?  Was Nathan Lane unavailable?!), moronic subplots, cheap gags, and wafer-thin characters are just part of what makes this an overall useless piece of cinematic trash. I imagine that people who might otherwise avoid tripe like this might be drawn to it by the (admittedly) clever concept of a Barney-like children's show character getting what's coming to it, but don't be fooled.  Adam Resnick and Danny DeVito are just not smart enough to play or reflect on the indescribable appeal that these figures have for kids, instead throwing tired cliche after tired cliche at their audience.Two hours of my life that Resnick and DeVito (who's been virtually worthless since TAXI by the way) owe me back big-time. "},{"Title":"See it for yourself!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Since most of the entertainment consuming troglodites of middle America have less a brain on their shoulders than an empty husk, Death to Smoochy, a film attacked by the 'critics' who nobody really likes but everyone trusts, will more than likely flop at the box office. Typical, but sad. Smoochy is brilliant, brutal, funny, and edgy the way no other comedy has been in years. We have not seen a film like it in some time (with the possible exception of Novocain). It never moves the easy way out. The jokes are like comedy hits to the skull rapid paced and sometimes painful to watch. Just take the pain and enjoy the ride. Most film these days only seem to take a few months to reach cult status, but if Smoochy ever finds it's niche, it may take a while. Never fear, you haven't heard the last of Rainbow Randolph!  "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Suprise","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to Smoochy is a very funny film about the dark side of childrens entertainment.  This film was a pleasant surprise, having read some awful reviews for it.  Danny Devito is growing on me as a  director and I think Robbin Williams gives his best performance since the Fisher King.The film does have its flaws.  The script becomes a bit weak towards the end and some jokes aren't funny at all.  But over all I really did like it (And this may sound odd coming from a guy who hates just about everything hollywood has put out in the last three years)3/4 stars.  "},{"Title":"What a dorky movie","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gosh, this movie disappoints me so much. I hate that Danny DeVito tried so hard to be unique in his directing disabilities. Like trying to trick people with things that were in one scene, taking away in the next, then reappear in the following shot. Gosh, and what's all this about this movie being dark?? What's dark about it? I don't get it, I really don't. The cussing? I thought the cussing was just so stupid. Everyone cussing in a movie just makes it feel more like it's all coming from one person. You know, the writer who writes everything, and is supposed to make different characters in a movie. I honestly didn't like it. I love Robin Williams, but hearing him cuss disappointed me so much. Gosh, I still cant get over the fact people think this is dark?!?!?! I don't get it; I'm as baffled as this movie being bad. Ughh... Get a life Mr. I'm trying to hard to direct, but still suck at it Danny DeVito.  "}{"Title":"Very Funny and Original","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this comedy because the plot was stretched out and the film never bored me for any moment.  Robin Williams has done one of his best comedic roles since PATCH ADAMS and MRS. DOUBTFIRE.  I don't care what others or critics say, this was a good, funny movie and had to see it since I did not want to go see ET and cry in the theater. "},{"Title":"Morbidly Humorous","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being a huge Ed Norton fan, and believing he can not do wrong, I went into Death To Smoochy expecting pure entertainment.  That's exactly what I got. Not being a father, and only being subject to the torture of various kids shows like Barney, and Telletubies, when babysitting nieces, I already have a pure dislike for that giant, purple, stuffed dinosaur, and those weird looking, baby talking aliens.  So going into a movie that opens with a parody on kids shows today, I was on the floor laughing my ass off.  The opening is a classic Robin Williams song and dance routine, funny as hell. Definitely a different type of role, from any that I remember Williams playing.  A dark, energetic, psychotic Kids show host, recently fired, develops a passionate hate for his replacement, Ed Norton.  Norton's character is an innocent, and honest one.  Reminded me of his character in Primal Fear, I was half expecting the same type of ending.  His performance as Smoochy, Was excellent, and hilarious.  Once again he confirmed my belief of Ed Norton can do no bad.  Danny Devito did an excellent job with this film.  He was definitely the right man for the job, and his performance was great.  He makes such a good Sinister Little Man.  Without giving away too much of the film, I will just say this.  Death to Smoochy is one of the best Dark Comedies, in a long time.  One of the funniest movies of 2002, thus far.  I would definitely suggest seeing this movie.   "},{"Title":"Absolutely hysterical","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Roger Ebert trashed this film, but also said that Moulin Rouge was the best film of last year.  He also co-wrote Return to the Valley of the Dolls--so, don't listen to him.  In fact, pay no mind to any negative reviews that you've gotten thus far on the User Comments.  I laughed at the writing, the premise, the acting--and sometimes I laughed nervously, not believing what was unfolding before my eyes. DON'T MISS THIS FILM!!! "},{"Title":"*Really* wanted to love it","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really wanted to love Death To Smoochy.  Prior to seeing the film, I had liked the trailer and adored the website.  I was all set to embrace Danny Devito's picture about a purply rhino and the psycho wishing to do him harm.But no... Death To Smoochy is a great concept ruined by a poor script.  It feels like Adam Resnick was so enthused by his idea (which is a great one), that he totally forgot to write a decent movie to back it up.  In this age of Barney and Teletubbies, the idea of kid-show satire is badly needed, but this film doesn't come up with the goods.  The sets and props are excellent, the songs enjoyable, but this movie just didn't make me laugh enough to leave feeling satisfied.When I did laugh, it was mostly due to Robin Williams, who shows in Smoochy that he still has his vulgar comic sensibilities.  The character of Rainbow Randolph is one of the few things that *does* work in this movie. Williams' tortured psychotic gets off many of the best lines, and it's a shame he didn't get more screentime.  The rest of the actors try hard, especially the beautiful Catherine Keener, who I cannot stop looking at, but they struggle under the poor script.  Death To Smoochy had the potential to be a side-splitting, intensely funny movie, but somewhere along the line, things went awry.  A Shame. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i just got home from seeing this movie, it was hilarious, robin williams and edward norton were great as usual. i'm not going to give a summary of the movie or anything, all i'm going to say is that it isn't for everything, there is alot of swearing, and some cookies made into facal objects, all that aside, this is a must see for anybody looking for a profane laugh or to see some great acting. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams and Edward Norton are the best","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Edward norton (Smoochy) and robin Williams (Rainbow Randolph) are the best. This movie keep me laughing through out the whole movie. It was one after the other. I think this movie is one of the best so far in comedy range. Danny Devito is not just a great actor but a great director. If you haven't gone out and seen Death To Smoochy. You need to.  "},{"Title":"Great Black Comedy!! don't Listen to Critics! GO SEE IT!!!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  God you people, didn't anyone like this flick. I thought it was just F'in amazing! It was funny, creepy, dangerous and nasty as hell! I am a big fan of Devito and i think this is his best film, even better then Throw Mama From The Train (which no one liked eaither, poor Devito). Robin Williams has more than made up for Patch Adams in his classic demented as hell performance as the psychotic Rainbow Randolf, Ed Norton (Smoochy) is funny as all heck as the naive health nut who thinks that children's Television is for actually TEACHING KIDS STUFF, as opposed to trying to sell toys. The Humor was just plain wrong, especially in the cookie seen. But as soon as i got out of the theater (beaming, i might add), i realized that the whole world is against me on this one. The person i saw it with hated it with a vengance, NO online critics liked it and no one on IMDB seems to like it eaither! My guess is that this is going to go the Mallrats way and become a big cult hit on video. Yep, in about 2 years this is going to be considered a misunderstood classic that it is! Don't worry Danny, i loved your original, biting, dark and all-together hilarious satire on the maniac world of children's TV!!!Your best fiend in flicks no one likes,Jesse Tucker "},{"Title":"Good for a laugh if you're weird--in a good way","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I happen to be a biased review writer here because I am a super big fan of Ed Norton. HOWEVER I actually found this movie entertaining.  It was not the greatest movie I have ever seen but the acting is definitely something I'd stand up for.  I was very impressed with all of the characters.  It is an incredible cast all of which are very entertaining to watch in action. I'm going to keep this short because all other reviews give you movie detail which I am not big on.  There were some slow parts to this movie but the funny parts were worth it.  It was completely unexpectable and the plot was impossible to guess--which can be somewhat expected with pretty deranged characters.The humor is dark, strange, and even deranged.  Everyone's pretty nutty, everyone's got their flaws, and pretty much everyone has a dark side.  I thought the movie was hilarious.  I saw it with 5 people who all decided to see it again in a few weeks...I can't wait to own it.  "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm actually glad that this movie got such terrible reviews, because not only did I get to enjoy a wonderful movie, I got to spend the whole movie anticipating when it was going to get bad, which it never did. Edward Norton can do no wrong, so I won't even go there. But I feel that Robin Williams runs pretty hot and cold with acting talent and this is the best of his performances I've seen in years. I love DeVito's directing style. There are so many quirks and amusing little ironies, you cannot stop yourself from laughing. Don't listen to me though, listen to everyone who trashes Death to Smoochy and go see it anyway. This movie will pleasantly surprise you. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, intelligent comedy for all Barney haters.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went in to see Death to Smoochy with high expectations, all of which were met.  Death to Smoochy is, in my opinion, one of the most intelligent, funny, satiric comedies of the year.Smoochy is cast brilliantly, Robin Williams exudes psychosis in his role as Rainbow Randolf.  He delivers a dynamite comedic performance while playing on his character's mental state.  Edward Norton, is absolutely perfect in his casting as Sheldon (Smoochy) Mopes.  He plays his incredibly caring, naive, sensitive character with such innocence and flair, that all that seems to be missing is a gee whiz thrown in here and there.  In the center of these two actors is Nora Wells (played by Catherine Keener), a studio big wig who recruits Smoochy after a legal debacle surrounding Randolf.If you've seen the trailers you know the central plot revolves around Rainbow's despise of Smoochy.  This plot is surrounded by several interesting subplots which give the film intellectual depth.While Williams, Norton, and Keener carry the film, it is fleshed out incredibly well with a great supporting cast of Danny DeVito, Jon Stewart, and Pam Ferris (who plays a hilarious Irish Mob Boss).If you've learn to know and hate current children's TV shows (i.e. Barney, Teletubbies, etc.), you will love Death to Smoochy.  It left me searching for breath to laugh.  It's dialogue is intelligent, funny, and fresh.  The characters, while slightly two dimensional, are real and fun.  And the action is sublimely wicked, dark, and twisted.  This is the best intelligent comedy I've seen all year.8 out of 10 *'s "}{"Title":"Robin Williams is back!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While this movie was a little disappointing overall (the story gets a little out of control and never seems to gell completely), you will not be disappointed with Robin's performance (or Ed Norton's for that matter).I laughed my arse off throughout the film and was reminded again and again of the amazing talent that Robin has. Why he hasn't been able to find a good vehicle to showcase his dark side in the past 5+ years?? Who knows? But I am hopeful that this will be the first in a long string of good movies to come.Ed Norton is a GOD by the way... I just cannot get over how good he is. He surprises me each and every time and simply blows my mind with his versatility. Now, when can we have Ed play a romantic lead? Sign me up to be his co-star. Sigh.If you are expecting the traditional Hollywood slapstick fodder, you probably won't like this film. But if you have half a brain and like your comedy dark, this film ain't too bad. In the end, Death to Smoochy is great fun and you WILL laugh - that is *if* you have a developed sense of humor. "},{"Title":"This film would have been brilliant -- if I was high on Xanax 4/10","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And the biggest disappointment so far this year is Death to Smoochy. The film had SO much potential -- and it does SO much wrong. I have been counting the days to see this movie. With the hysterical preview, and the beyond clever website, the last thing I expected to see was this disaster!What works Robin Williams. Robin is funny as can be in this film, spurting jaw-dropping lines (that are bound to become classic) with his perfect comedic rhythm. Robin earned his paycheck on this film -- Rainbow Randolph is a classic character.The Problems Robin Williams isn't in it hardly enough, unlike the previews might suggest, and when he isn't there the film suffers. Edward Norton, who has been PERFECT in every single movie until this one, is just flat out awful. His character made me gag -- and his performance didn't even get a smile out of me. Keener plays the same role she played in Being John Malkovich, showing her lack as an actress. The film just misses opportunities one after the other -- and half the material isn't nearly as fresh as one might have hoped. The film might be dark, but it lacks the charm and intelligence of DeVito's Throw Mama From the Train and The War of the Roses.I wanted to love this film -- but 20 great minutes, out of a 100 minute movie, just doesn't work for me. "},{"Title":"An excellent dark comedy, destined to be a cult hit.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Without repeating the plot and the other reviews, I'll cut right to the heart of the matter Death To Smoochy is a love-it-or-hate-it film. You're either the type of person to appreciate the ironic comedy, dark references, and inside jokes, or you aren't. The film offers a great fictional account of the dark underbelly of kids' programming and charities, describing things we don't want to be true, but know, in our hearts, probably ARE true at some level. The film also mixes children's television with sex, death, drugs, murder, extortion, and other scandals. I was surprised DeVito didn't ask Paul Reubens to play a role in Death To Smoochy- The irony of such a cameo would have been delicious!  Death To Smoochy is an inspired, clever film. At no point in it was I left bored or did I feel misdirected by the pace of the story. Everything is well-played. The acting is top-notch, with Williams, Norton, DeVito, Keener, and others giving their best performances in ages. Robin Williams, of course, is being lauded for his return to his comic roots, and it's a well-deserved accolade. Williams hasn't been this funny or entertaining for almost a decade! He's manic, out-of-control, and yet has the glimmer of goodness underneath his mania. He's perfect as Rainbow Randolph.  Keener does what she does best Plays a shrewd, harsh woman who eventually warms up and reveals an intriguingly twisted past (ala Being John Malkovitch). Keener is not the star, however, and is not given any more screen time than she should.  It is Norton, with his squeaky-clean, yet believable Mopes (a.k.a. Smoochy) who steals the show. He's at the top of his game here. He plays the innocent drawn into the lion's den extremely well, and yet this innocence is not ridiculous, and Mopes shows that it's the result of great self-discipline, rather than hopeless, optimistic ignorance. He's good to the bone, and he works hard to stay that way when it would be so easy to just give in and be a creep like everybody who surrounds him.Death To Smoochy will definitely hit cult status. It's got all the markings of a cult-favorite dark comedy which will be placed in the vault of wit for decades to come. People with children might best avoid this film if they want to feel good about letting their kids watch TV or go to ice shows ever again.  "},{"Title":"A really great film.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was really pleased with this film. In my opinion Danny DeVito did an excellent job directing this soon to be cult favorite. It had wonderful acting and Robin Williams did a GREAT job; I hope he plans to do some more comedies instead of that drama stuff that hes so bad at. I recommend this film to anyone who honestly calls themselves a fan of the dark comedy genre.  "},{"Title":"Near-Fatal","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Have you ever fantasized about strangling Barney? Ever wanted to pull a rock star thing and throw the Teletubbies out of a high-rise hotel window? Are you plotting Mr. Wizard's unfortunate accident with his next experiment? If that's how your mind works, then Death to Smoochy, the story of rivalrous child's television show hosts, is for you. As director and co-star Danny DeVito says, We're always looking for movies to take our kids to. This is not that movie! Deservedly rated R, Death to Smoochy is a very dark comedy riffing on a subject overripe for satire. Too bad it doesn't quite work. The irrepressible Robin Williams stars as Rainbow Randolph, the sunny, sparkly top-hatted host of a kiddie TV show, who isn't so perky when the cameras aren't rolling. While in a bar knocking back hard liquor, he gets caught in a bribery scandal and immediately gets the old heave-ho from his employer, Kidnet. The search is on to find a new, squeaky clean host, and when Randolph is replaced by Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton), a scrupled simp whose character is a lovable fuchsia rhinoceros named Smoochy, he hits the skids, big time. Going on a major drinking binge and forced to move in with a midget bit-player from his old show, Randolph plots his revenge against the hapless, happy-go-lucky Sheldon. Catherine Keener plays Nora Wells, a hard-nosed network executive, and Danny DeVito is Burke, Smoochy's unscrupulous agent (complete with pencil moustache). Harvey Fierstein and Jon Stewart shine in supporting roles.The concept is fantastic. The idea of agents and lawyers and plotting and throat-cutting in the seamy underbelly of the candy-coated world of children's television is hilarious. And the movie is mostly funny -- I just think it could have been better had Danny DeVito written the script, and someone like Woody Harrelson had been cast as the moralistic, naturalistic hippy-dippy Smoochy. Norton is one of my favorite actors of all time, but I do feel he was miscast as Smoochy. There's nothing wrong with a little typecasting now and then; in this case, going against type really didn't pan out. I did get chuckles out of Death to Smoochy, and there were a few laugh-out-loud detours (there's a scene in which Randolph bakes some rather interesting cookies for Smoochy, and another where he disguises himself as an accent-challenged limo driver), but it just didn't quite hit the target of excellence I expect from DeVito as a director.The movie could have been a killer black comedy, but as it turns out Death to Smoochy is only near-fatal. "},{"Title":"Death is too good for stinker Smoochy","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Particularly unfunny.Perhaps if this movie came out 10 years ago or so when `Barney' hit the scene, `Smoochy' would've hit the mark, but instead it misses its ambiguous target.  As you might've guessed, the `Barney' and `Teletubbies' references are ancient and are relied all throughout for a non-existent laugh.Robin Williams is a great comic actor but his talents are terribly wasted in this film.  He wears out his welcome almost immediately and resorts to ad-libbing penis jokes in front of children.   It becomes irritatingly clear that the `dark and demented' DeVito's idea of satire is dated pop-culture allusions and having people who make children's shows drop the f-bomb every other word.  Weak.  Williams is supposed to be loathsome, but he's so good at it it's not fun.Edward Norton is too sugary to swallow and Catherine Keener does more eye-rolling than acting (plus they have no romantic chemistry whatsoever).  DeVito is a stereotype, Jon Stewart is barely used, and Harvey Fierstein doesn't cut it as a gangster.  Sure, there were a few funny moments (I laughed good and hard at the `Step-dad Song') but those moments were few and far between as the characters are too one-dimensional and all the bright colors were giving me a headache.  Maybe instead of attacking the commercialism of kid's programming, DeVito could've done better by going after the movie theater industry's overpriced popcorn and soda I consumed while watching this junk.  At least that would've seemed to have a purpose.  Still want to see `Smoochy'? Fine, just save your money and rent it.  I guarantee if I had known this film was penned by the same guy who did `Cabin Boy' and `Lucky Numbers' I would've stayed home.    "},{"Title":"Apologia Por Smoochy","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death To Smoochy is already a tremendously underrated film. Many are quick to criticize the cookie-cutter theme and tacky characters. The thing is a lot of people are just below the humor in this movie. It features some beautifully disguised yet in-your-face irony. And you have to love the fact that the entire movie nonchalantly coasts through subjects of kids show groupies and the likes. Some people just look for the fart jokes and F-Bombs. Many times in the theater, there would be two rounds of laughter. First, the people who got the subtle ironies, and second, the people who thought it was funny to hear Robin Williams cuss. To enjoy this movie, which might make it unappealing, you just cant sit back and become comatose; you have to pay attention. "},{"Title":"Clever...  But not really...","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I was in a cheap humor kind of mood.  And of course, I got plenty of it.  Plenty of personal injury jokes, and crude humor, and the ooh, I'm so innocent, what's this you say??? humor.  Reminiscent of (forgive me) Orgazmo and it's Mormon Humor.  And at the time, it made me laugh.  However, it also had a some clever, biting humor that strikes at society.  The business was definitely a harsh attack on big Filmmaking USA.  However, the characters were rather flat and seemed almost useless to the plot.  Keener seems uninspired and flat, and almost unbelievable.  Her personality moves too fast to make sense.  Robin Williams plays a good jerk...  There's really not much more to say about him.  Danny Devito thought he should play in his movie.  I dunno about him...  The entire mob is only useful as a plot device and is...  well...  yeah.  And of course, after watching, you'll be thrown off the loop by something outrageously amusing, but otherwise, you just have to be in the mood for it.  And not be interested in Character Development.  "},{"Title":"Best Comedy of the Year, So Far....","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the previews of Smoochy it looked a bit strange and uninspired. One of my good friends had a chance to go to the premiere in New York City and told me immediately afterwards that is was a great film. I just had to see for myself. Since you can find plot descriptions just about everywhere on the internet these days, I'll just give my comments. First, it's hilarious. Ed Norton's character is both well-acted and well-written. This is the first Robin WIlliams film I've liked since....well, let's just say it's been a while. The satirical aspect of this film is great; I'm surprised it's the first to satirize kid's television. Catherine Keener, as usual, plays a great bad girl and totally gets into her role. The humor isn't like most films today which rely on gross-out tactics and bathroom jokes (maybe that's why I was the only one in the theatre laughing). It's intelligent, witty and original. Go check it out. "},{"Title":"Fun! Funny! Not Quite Genius!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading and trying to avoid the almost exclusively bad to worse reviews, I headed to the theater with hopes not exceptionally high.But by the time it was over I kept thinking, had I seen the same movie. There were so many times that I laughed almost uncontrollably as did the group of people I was with. Edward Norton proves again that he really is a great actor, and there's really no one who gives a faulty performance. Perhaps its a bit repetitive, it seems longer than it is, but its never boring. Basically if you think you'll like it, chances are you most likely will. A little too much profanity, but it doesn't detract too much from the many hilarious moments.  "}{"Title":"Funniest movie I've seen in quite awhile","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, it's dark.  No, it's not for the kids... it's deserving of it's R rating... It's sick, twisted, and evil... and I LOVED IT!!!!  Very fitting of Devito, a throwback to the All for the funny Robin Williams, Norton's as good as ever, Keener is the same as she was in Being John Malkovich but with more heart... but that's okay.  I went to see this, nervously, with my Mom and Dad... now, I was pretty sure if it was good, Dad would love it, but I was equally as sure that if it was good, Mom would HATE it, being as how she's got about no sense of humor.... but we all laughed our... hiney's off.  Only thing that woulda made it better?  Quentin Tarantino being the writer/director.Four out of Five stars for me. "},{"Title":"A biting dark comedy worth seeing again.","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" DEATH TO SMOOCHY  ***_  Dark Comedy / Dir Danny DeVito Edward Norton, Catherine Keener, Robin Williams, Danny DeVitoWhen Rainbow Randolph (Williams) loses his popular kids' TV show after being busted for taking payola, the network searches for a squeaky-clean replacement. Enter Smoochy, the Rhino. He has high ideals, but...What happens when you turn Robin Williams and Danny DeVito loose on a film about the inner workings of TV? In this case, you come up with a fast-paced cynical story filled with plot twists, visual splendor and biting wit. In one throw-away line, Robin Williams calls Smoochy as a bastard son of Barney. There were two others in rapid succession, but I was laughing so hard at the first I missed them. SMOOCHY bears watching more than once.I can't help thinking this would make a great double-feature with A THOUSAND CLOWNS. No car chases or explosions. Occasional foul language. Intense color.  "},{"Title":"Boring and Belated","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A movie making fun of subjects like Barney should have been made 6 years ago, not now.  The movie was longer than it should have been and VERY boring.  I'm not really sure what caused this movie to be labeled a comedy, because I and every single other person in the theater didn't laugh once. All of the jokes seemed very forced and tired.  The characters were so one-dimensional and simplistic that you didn't really care about them.  The sub-plot involving Danny Devito's character and Harvey Fierstein's character was totally useless and could have easily cut 20 minutes off of the running time without changing anything.  Aside from the stepdad song, this movie was a complete snoozefest from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"An awesome dark comedy","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really liked the twisted humour of this Danny Devito flick.  I read so many bad reviews of it before I saw it, but saw it anyway because I liked War of the Roses so much- also a Devito film.While I realize that the dark satire might not be for everyone, there is also some really smart humour there too, that I don't think a lot of people understood in the theater.If you liked movies like War of the Roses, or generally off-note humour- you should really see this movie. "},{"Title":"Highly Entertaining","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to Smoochy was definitely the funniest movie so far this year, although it's not even April yet.  The film is funny, but it's less satirical than I was hoping, relying more on profanity and slapstick.Robin Williams and Edward Norton are a wonder to watch.  Williams is as manic as ever, and Norton is wonderfully nave.  I can't get over how versatile he is considering his roles in Fight Club, American History X, and Primal Fear.I was expecting Death to Smoochy to be on the same plane as classic satires, like Network, but aside from a few great lines and the infamous and hilarious stepfather song, the film was not nearly as dark as it could have been.  DeVito seems to think that profanity and violence creates a sneering dark comedy, but truly great films, like The Royal Tenenbaums, are able to be darker still without the violence, but rather through the story and characters.Visually the film is colorful and lively with great sets, extras, and particularly costumes.  And the ice skating climax and all scenes on the Smoochy TV set are pure entertainment.Every joke doesn't fly, but the ones that do hit hard, and they come quick enough that you barely even notice.So, in summary, Death to Smoochy is a hilarious and highly entertaining mock of children's television and the blatant exploitation of this deep-pocketed demographic with a satirical edge, but not as much substance as style.  But that's OK, you'll still walk out of the theater with a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"Smoochy is my idol!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Smoochy was a great movie!!! I got to see a sneak preview. It was hilarious. When the commercial says it is demented, it was not lying. The jokes and stuff are just so well placed and the characters are all great, even the smaller roles. I have never seen Robin Williams play a part like that, and I'm glad he did it because it just widens his range as an actor. It was refreshingly different from the childish characters and doctors he always plays. If you've seen Edward Norton in Fight Club you probably already love him. Smoochy is almost the exact opposite character than the one played in Fight Club, but it's equally as cool. I highly recommend this movie. Smoochy is my idol! "},{"Title":"Very, very funny","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie can only be described as funny, Robin Williams and Edward Norton do a great job in this movie. Others may think it to be a waste of money and time, but once in awhile you need one of those funny movies. The movie is one movie I will never forget because I loved it. The comedy is great and the camera work, plus the director and writer you know they all did a very good job on this movie. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie so far this year","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a fantastic movie. The cast played off of each other well and the story just kept moving at a great pace. I was laughing all the way through. There are moments for everyone weather you like dark comedy, spoof flicks, or light hearted romps, it's got a little bit of everything mixed into one great movie, I plan on seeing this one again in the theaters tomorrow. Great fun. "},{"Title":"Not bad, not brilliant","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't know if this movie was worth 12 bux, but it was mildly entertaining assuming you can turn your brain off for an hour and a half. This movie flogged bad language as the central comedy scheme via Robin Williams, and I'll admit I was laughing out loud in many scenes. So...not a bad choice for a rental, but I wouldn't shell out my hard earned dollars to see it. "},{"Title":"Not too shabby","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this one at a free sneak-preview screening here @ ASU. I came in with pretty high expectations, being a big Ed Norton fan. Williams & Norton did their roles very well & overall this one was pretty good; if not a little bit over the top. Some parts took it a little too far, but hey, what can you do? They really could have gone another way with the plot, i'll just leave it at that. And while it WAS good, it could've been a lot better. I didn't laugh too much throughout the movie; maybe a chuckle here and there, but still managed to walk out reasonably satisfied given the fact that i didn't pay for it o) Is it worth your $8? Sure, why not. After all It's only money.7.5/10 "}{"Title":"Great Script; Poorly Cast, Poorly Shot","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Somewhere in here there was once a very funny script, from which we have received this flat, uninspired, dull movie that's only occasionally funny.But doesn't it look funny on the outside?  Edward Norton and Robin Williams are ALWAYS fun to watch, you say, and Danny Devito brought the world The War of the Roses, and Throw Momma from the Train.  Right?Well, all that's true at first glance.  But those two Devito films are nearly ten years old at this point, and while Norton, and Williams, and Catherine Keener all turn in excellent performances, the glue holding it together is all too weak, and every other actor (with the exception of the leader of the Irish Mafia) is incredibly miscast.The comic timing is off, the cinematography is nothing special (he has fewer movies to his credit so he must've been cheap), the songs are sometimes funny, sometimes grating.Great script, but it should've stayed on the shelf another few years.  There are more creative directors who could have turned this into something far more clever, or far more funny-- Devito bungled Matilda a few years ago too, so he's clearly lost his edge-- but Death to Smoochy only managed to get halfway there.  5/10. "},{"Title":"HELLO NEW JERSEY!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The dynamics of this film I must say are quite remarkable.  I'll be the first to admit that it doesn't offer much new in cinema, other than great talents like Norton and Keener (and sometimes Williams) to work together.  This biting satire of children's television icons is sharply directed by Danny DeVito, giving Norton and Williams almost equal screen time, all the while providing some really stark visuals and very funny scenes (the theater was rolling in the aisles during the step-dad song).  Catherine Keener played the ice-cold b***h with class, I've always known she'd find her niche.  Norton was top-notch as the squeaky clean patron saint Smoochy, he definitely can hold his own with comedic heavyweights Williams and DeVito.  And Williams returns to comedy with a big bang (and a few swear words to boot).  His Rainbow Randolph's deranged mind unravels nicely right before our eyes, and you still feel sympathy for him.The film had a nice pace and the climax scene was a little cliche, but nonetheless still very funny in the execution.  I definitely recommend this film, Norton fans will not be disappointed.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Back to the cutting room floor!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This could have been a very entertaining movie if the editing was done with an eye for the medium and not the message. There appeared to be too much emphasis on telling how the kiddie shows should and did change, and not enough emphasis on the interactions between Robin Williams and Ed Norton. It seemed to take every  aspect of making a point and driving it home again, and again, and again. Also, Norton's character seemed to be very one dimensional, with the exception of an occasional hint of a possible repressed personality, that unfortunately never emerges. And as it has been said many times already, here is another case of wasting a strong female co-star on a mindless role. I give it 6 out of 10, only for the sporatic, but excellent spots of laughter. "},{"Title":"Long live rainbow randalph!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You'll be pleasantly surprised... particularly if you have keen memories of kid's tv shows.Sesame Street meets the Sopranos.Robin Williams playing a bad guy...?!Find it and see it!  "},{"Title":"a dark, fiendishly fun movie.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Edward Norton is wonderful in his naivety in the high-stakes world of children's television.  Catherine Keener plays his mentor in this world to a T.  And Robin Williams, well, his role is evil comic genius.  Danny DeVito direction was great, no slow, unnecessary scenes, no lag.I don't recommend this movie for children, but adults will enjoy it.  There are quite a few laugh-out-loud scenes that are memorable.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie, but a bit dark with a fair amount of violence and bad language","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a very well done movie.  The story was original and well written, the acting was good, and it was very enjoyable. But...not everyone will enjoy it.  It's a dark comedy, there is quite a bit of violence, and a great deal of offensive language.  If you are easily offended by language, don't go see this movie (and for goodness sake don't take a child to see it). But, it was one of the better movies I've seen in the last year. "},{"Title":"terrific cast, fun time","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  robin williams Ed Norton Catherine Keener Danny Devito Jon Stewartthose names alone signify what can only be described as a can't miss must be funny movie, but how deliberately dark it is, Danny Devito gets sole credit.  The movie is terrific, but not without its flaws.  Keener is left with little to do but roll her eyes a lot in this film, while jon stewart is too small a role (but in the trailer, seeing stewart go Get me Smoochy! is hilarious to me three weeks later).  ed norton shows a comic side never really seen before, further proving just how talented he is, how versatile he is, and how he is one of the best actors of my generation.  Robin Williams is Robin Williams, if i have to describe his skills to you, you don't deserve to read this right now.  All in all a great movie, but it's no ten.  one of the best of spring. "},{"Title":"Refreshing Change of Pace from Formula Films","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death To Smoochy is a refreshing change and a very welcome break from the typical formula films out in the cinemas these days.Children's television has long been commented on by comedians and satire alike, but this version is delightfully dark and wicked.Robin Williams as Rainbow Randolph veers far from his typical roles. Finally we get to see his range as he explores this dark and tortured character. Williams has most of the funny scenes, as usual, and as suits him well. This role is different in the type of humor Williams displays. Think raw. Yes he swears a lot, but he's supposed to be a bad man. If you don't like the language or suggested violence, go watch Hook instead.One of the most surprising and interesting characters is portrayed by Edward Norton. Not since Fight Club has Norton taken on a role so convincingly as to make you truly understand the character. This is true acting. Norton's Smoochy mirrors the pure sugary sweet sappy attitude of Mr. Rogers and Barney the Dinosaur combined.Danny Devito has taken a clever script and taken risks as a director which ultimately pay off. Atypical characters from Williams and Norton add to the quirky directing style that really captures the mood of the film. Here is a black comedy as dark as can be but still funny.If you ever found yourself daydreaming of strangling Barney the Dinosaur, or any other really annoying children's TV icon, then this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"Good premise, uninspired movie","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Biting, sharp dark comedies are in short supply these days, and I had high hopes for DEATH TO SMOOCHY.  The cast and creators have done excellent work before, which is why this soggy film is especially disappointing.  It's not without humor the song about stepfathers is brilliant, and there are inspired one-liners here and there.  But overall, the movie is inexplicably repetitive and uninspired.  Once the main conflict of the movie is established (Rainbow Randolph wants his job back while Smoochy brings his uplifting schtick to children's TV), the story simply limps around in circles. The plot throws in sequences about organized crime, but the characters just keep repeating themselves until the ice skating climax.  You know a movie is in trouble when a lead character is continually asked to roll her eyes or snort in surprise/indignation, and unfortunately, that's Catherine Keener's main job.  It's difficult to watch her with nothing to do here if you've recently seen her in the brilliant BEING JOHN MALKOVICH.  It's good to see Robin Williams cast off the sappy good guy roles he has recently been playing, but his character is strangely without dimension.  His lines depend on empty profanities, which come across as more and more hollow as the movie unfolds.  Danny DeVito's hyper directing style doesn't help much either--a scene in super closeup between DeVito and Harvey Fierstein is as irksome as it is unsensible.In short, a disappointing movie that fails to take advantage of its very ripe-for-satirizing subject matter. "},{"Title":"Death to DeVito's Directing Career.","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death to Smoochy (2002) Dir Danny De Vito / Cast Edward Norton, Robin Williams, Danny De Vito, Catherine Keener, Pam Ferris Vile comedy indicating bad intentions brought about, with the audience falling victim. Interesting plot regards Robin Williams as children's entertainer Rainbow Randolph who is arrested in the film's opening. Catherine Keener plays a T.V. executive instructed to find new talent and brings in Edward Norton dressed as a purple rhino named Smoochy. He is all about entertaining and making kids happy but learns a lesson in corruption when promoter Burke schemes. Randolph attempts to sabotage Smoochy's success and even presents him with penis shaped cookies. Too many climaxes are issued as director Danny De Vito loses control. He often makes films about the dark side of human nature such as The War of the Roses. Norton is too happy to take seriously, and much of his story is predictable. Williams as Randolph is the one character of any depth as he struggles to regain his celebrity in very unpleasant ways. Keener is a fine actress but given very standard material here. De Vito overacts as Burke who is the clear villain who gets his just deserts. Pam Ferris played the psychotic teacher in De Vito's Matilda. Here she is equally over the top as a mob boss. Satire about industry corruption within a screenplay that died long before Smoochy. Score 4  / 10 "}{"Title":"Hilarious dark comedy","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Danny DeVito scores again with DEATH TO SMOOCHY, a very dark comedy about a fired children's TV show host (Robin Williams) who is out to get his replacement (Ed Norton). There is so much going on in this nasty look at TV programming that it behooves the viewer to watch it a second time. Norton is brilliant as a hack performer in a goofy rhino costume who goes on to inspire millions. Williams is at his maniacal best. Among the sterling supporting cast is Pam Ferris as the rough, tough head of a local Irish gang that latches onto Smoochy and Michael Rispoli as a childlike member of the gang who would do anything to appear on Smoochy's show. The ending running under the credits is a hoot, so stay with it. "},{"Title":"embarrassed laughter","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Gor Vidal once described Jackie Kennedy as possessing a streak of life-enhancing malice. If you don't understand that remark, you're not going to like this movie.This movie's promotion suggested a one-joke ordeal. I'm not a fan of Throw Momma or Robin Williams movies, and I had zero interest in War of the Roses. But after some coaxing I watched this, and was pleasantly surprised at the places it went, and the obscene zeal it found in two children's TV hosts one of whom despises the other. The super-vulgar one with no self-control hates the big purple thing who's insufferably P.C.. It is inconceivable that this received the drubbing it did, from the public and especially the critics. We've endured so much heinous children's television over the years, and so many awful child actors, that an original comedy as funny as this was a long time coming. It's a put-on people, laugh a little! Every scene includes at least a titter. Even pratfalls (the lamest type of humor in the canon) get a fresh treatment here. DTS may be the most garish-looking movie ever filmed though.The deliriously nasty joke of the movie is that a plethora of syndicates, grifters and venal self-promoters are behind children's TV. If you can make it through authentically annoying, naff, didactic kiddie songs like My Stepdads Not Mean, He's Just Adjusting (and that's one of the better ones) you'll reach streams of vivid, limber expletives and plot situations which are a joy to behold. The script which frequently becomes rote, always snaps back with something shockingly vulgar. When the movie reaches a children's Wagner on Ice show, I was still chuckling.Robin Williams plays a hilariously foul-mouthed malcontent. One of my favorite lines involves comparing a woman's virtue to the Titanic but I won't ruin it. Instead I'll leave you with a Joe Orton line in the same vein You? You were born with your legs spread. They'll have to bury you in Y-shaped coffin. Catherine Keener as a children's TV exec/mascot fetishist again shows off the fresh, direct, natural acting technique that she first displayed in Being John Malkovich.The Irish mob boss named Tommy (female) is a great character, memorable for, among other things, a particularly direct way of grieving Alright boys, let's go pray and get sh***aced.Just as with most DVD commentaries DeVito's remarks are a pointless description of only what's in front of your eyes, without even a sentence of explanation of the origins of this original script. But at least he draws your attention to some interesting edits. I only caught about half the fun he was having with film technique. "},{"Title":"Not quite anything","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really wanted to like this film. From the moment I heard about it, there was a lot I liked about the idea. It was absurd, it was dark, and it was different. What I found, however, was that it tried too hard to be different, and in trying, it failed to become what it could have.Essentially what we have is a comedy, dark at times, funny at times, but not quite one or the other. It's not a black comedy, because it's too ridiculous; the best black comedies are simply not funny, because they're too grotesquely real. Conversely, it's not quite a straight comedy because it just isn't witty enough; it relies too heavily on stereotypes and hyperbole for its humour. At times it seems to be a biting satire of children's television, but it fails in this respect too, because it doesn't have a firm enough grounding in reality. The best satire (call it Swiftean, if you will) also shouldn't be funny, because it's too vivid a mirror for reality.Death to Smoochy is too warped, you could say. It fails to really hit the highs of the peak it attempts to climb, because it takes it one step too far in every respect. Its humour relies on a farcical nature that is just too extreme to work every time. The character of Sheldon is overworked; likewise Rainbow Randolph. I mean, we've seen green-loving hippies before, it's nothing new, and so too have we seen Robin Williams in crazy ranting mode, and it's funnier when he's not such a clichd 'psycho' character.The film does, however, have its moments For example, the zoom-out from the costumed Spinner's dead body to a chalk outline of a giant foam rhinoceros - that made me laugh for a twisted, absurdly poignant minute. That's the chord I feel the entire film was trying to hit, that - to clumsily continue the metaphor - 'diminished' chord. But moments like that that made me laugh - and I wouldn't want to deny that there were a few - were isolated. There wasn't a coherent enough flow to make these amusing moments string together into a funny, witty, truly memorable whole.And I think it's basically just a lack of coherence that causes its downfall. IT doesn't even know what it's trying to do. Because the really tragic thing is, as I knew before I watched it, that there are so many good elements here. The cast is great, not just on paper but they all attack their roles with gusto (with the possibly notable exception of Jon Stewart, who I think is quite amusing in real life, but he's not a great actor). The concept behind the plot, if not necessarily the plot as it unfolds, is amusing and original. Danny De Vito directs with a stylistic hand, and he clearly enjoys what he's putting together here. All in all, it really could have been something more than it is.But basically, funny though it is, it doesn't have enough to set it apart from other 'funny' films. It's different, certainly, but not in the way that Bringing Up Baby is different from, say, Cheaper by the Dozen (Not the greatest comparison I've ever devised, but I hope you get the general idea). In the end, I have to join that rather succinct mob who inadvertently inspired me to watch this film, and say It's just weird. "},{"Title":"Stop! The flames are too hot! They're driving me MAD!","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When Robin Williams yells that line I couldn't stop laughing. I saw the movie almost a week ago and every time I think about (which is a lot!) I just start laughing. 'Death to Smoochy' was a movie that always lingered on the periphery of my rental appetites; I'd heard so many bad things about it that you can't help but believe the hype. When it came out I couldn't find a single person who liked it or who wanted to like it and I think that maybe that's why I stayed away from it. A few years later I've had some distance and rediscovered it. All I can say is I'm so glad I did! 'Death to Smoochy' was part of Robin Williams self-described 'Triptych of Terror.' Along with 'Insomnia' and 'One Hour Photo,' he tried to set out and play characters very different from his past choices. People will argue about how they these performances were received initially, but I think they all have an edge and a complexity that easily outdistances a lot of his earlier work. His performance as Rainbow Randolph in 'Death to Smoochy' is the most comedic of his three dark turns. He is a man unhinged as his world is collapsing all around him, and realizing that he's fettered away or lost what little of anything he once had. His anguish turns to rage and his rage focuses in on his rival 'Smoochy.' Rival may not be the right word there since it insinuates two combatants. 'Smoochy' is so good-hearted and well-intentioned that he is largely oblivious to the machinations of the man whose time slot on network television he has stolen.'Death to Smoochy' is VICIOUSLY satirical. Very strong performances from Williams, Devito, and the always excellent Catherine Keener. Edward Norton is a bit of a revelation who knew the guy could be funny? Vincent Schiavelli plays a children's performer even farther down on his his luck and more desperate than Williams' Randolph. Littered with great character actors, this is a wonderfully dark and irreverent film that has three main themes 1. How far will a man go to get back what he's lost, 2. How strongly will one defend one's principles, and 3. Corruption through greed and how avarice can destroy those it ensnares.This is a wonderful film that deserves a second chance. My rating may go up for it in time. If you're looking for a satirically dark, edgy comedy that skewers network politics, uber-healthy lifestyles and children's programming (hey, throw in ice shows too!) than this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"Rather odd","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The idea sounds quite interesting... and the execution is, as well, no doubt about that. The material just has this bizarre quality to it, and DeVito's direction at times has the film plodding along. There were several times throughout the film where I expected it to end within minutes... yet it kept going, for half an hour, a full hour. The plot is intriguing(no, honestly, it is; you wouldn't think so from the outline, but it really is), though it develops strangely. The pacing is somewhat uneven, but it does move as it should during some parts... I'd say about half of the movie is blessed with good pacing, while the other half... yes, I'm afraid so. The acting is mostly solid. The writing is... out there, very much. Occasionally funny, but more often than not, it's just weird. The comedians are all pretty funny here, though I found that Jon Stewart had an almost criminally small part compared to how funny the man is. With some bizarre humor and various musical numbers, this film is an odd one. Well, when the first few moments are a shadow-play of the host of a children's show getting murdered, you know you're in for an unusual film. I haven't seen too many other movies directed by Danny DeVito... in fact, this is the first. Anyway, therefore, I can't really say if this is typical for him or not. All in all, a pretty good film, I guess it's worth watching if you're into the humor. I recommend this to fans of the humor and/or the actors as well as those intrigued by the plot description. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Edward Norton Makes the FIlm Watchable","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" DEATH TO SMOOCHY was a continuation of director Danny DeVito's journey into the realm of black comedy, a term I think DeVito,as a director, has definitely redefined (most notably WAR OF THE ROSES)which tells an effectively mounted tale (and yes, as a previous poster mentioned, there are parallels to the 1976 classic NETWORK) about a kids TV host (Robin Williams) who gets fired after a scandal and is replaced by an idealistic young performer (Edward Norton) who, once, given complete creative control of the show, takes it in unexpected directions and is unable to be controlled by the network bigwigs and finds his idealism landing him in some legal trouble as well as danger. Despite an amusing premise and cute title, there is very little pleasant or entertaining about this film, except for the endlessly charming performance by Edward Norton, an I actor I'm convinced could become the movie genre's new Jack Nicholson...an actor of such range and versatility that he can make mediocre dialogue shine and make a strained story watchable. DEATH TO SMOOCHY is watchable only because of the endless on screen charm and charisma of Edward Norton. "},{"Title":"Good potential and you may enjoy it if you appreciate dark humor, but some of it is simply too childish","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Some of Death Smoochy actually falls victim to its own parody - the realm of children's entertainment. As painfully obvious parallels for Barney the Dinosaur, Rainbow Randolph (Robin Williams) and Smoochy (Edward Norton) both appear to be larger-than-life caricatures living in a fantasy world of absurdist proportions.In some ways, it's brilliant. In others, less so.The crazy and frenetic direction work - including the dark cinematography, awkward angles and filming styles and so on and so forth - all contribute to a final product that is, for lack of a better word, sloppy. And this is part of Danny DeVito's point - he's TRYING to make it crazy...one might argue that it is TOO crazy, though.The satire - parodying the whole Barney/Teletubbies craze is more than a simple premise - it doesn't just poke fun at them, it offers a unique concept What if the world's most popular children's entertainer was arrested for blackmail and extortion and it ruined his career? What if an aspiring, innocent young man took his place and became an object of hatred for the original children's performer? Some of DeVito's content is pretty much brilliant - and if it were more even, Death to Smoochy might have been one of the best parodies of all time - mean, vicious, frank, honest, sarcastic, whimsical, well-acted, and biting. But it comes in short bursts.A lot of the time the film is overwhelmed by crude gags that aren't really necessary to the plot or overall humor. Yes, it's an adult film. We get it, it's rated R. Now, let's move on.The acting is good - a lot of people criticized Williams and Norton but I think they both do well. Bizarre? Yes. But this is a bizarre movie.Overall it would be a great deal better if they had maintained the hard edge throughout minus the...childish gags, which I suppose is kind of ironic in itself.This is a curious little picture. "},{"Title":"Demented, but in a good way","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Suspend disbelief, and let the absurdity wash over you (see also, Mystery Men).The movie is made by one line. Randolph's manic Bite me, Buddha. That's poetry.How can you argue with Catherine Keener as a kiddie-show groupie, Robin Williams as the embittered Rainbow Randolph, Ed Norton's serene Smoochie (cleverly hiding his American X Nazi tats), the pornographic oyster-slurping of Harvey Fierstein, Jon Stewart's hair, and Danny DeVito's sleaze factor.Best of all, you should be able to find a copy in the 2 for $11 bin at Wally-Mart. "},{"Title":"Too crude for school","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Smoochy is one of the worst movies I have ever seen, and I have rated it accordingly. Without knowing much about it ahead of the viewing, I thought that with Robin Williams and Danny DeVito in the cast, the movie would have to be good. Unfortunately, the film was a great disappointment to me, and the excessive vulgarity and crudeness made me especially embarrassed to have invited family with me to see it. The film was outright creepy, and I felt like asking the cinema for a refund on our tickets. I suppose that one could argue in favor of its satirical commentary on the financial exploitation inherent in much of children's entertainment. But Krusty the Klown demonstrated that for us on The Simpsons many years ago, but with much more humor and much less profanity. With any luck, the great actors involved with this picture will avoid doing anything like this again. Finally, Smoochy is a great example of why one should read reviews or at least learn something about a film, before making the choice to see it. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams' comeback","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It seemed like Robin Williams' career had hit rock bottom in 1999 with the emotion-manipulating Jakob the Liar and the robotic Bicentennial Man, and his appearance as the voice of Dr. Know in 2001's AI Artificial Intelligence was really the best part of the movie (it was more Spielberg-ian than Kubrick-ian). But with Death to Smoochy showed that he can still do his stuff. He plays Rainbow Randolph Smiley, the venal host of a kiddie show. After he gets arrested, the producers need a replacement, and they find neo-hippie Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton) to play a rhinoceros named Smoochy. Well, you can probably guess that Randolph isn't a bit happy about this. Interestingly, the producers decide that they also don't like Sheldon. The final showdown is quite impressive.I guess that every now and then, we need a movie to poke fun at various aspects of the media (think Singin' in the Rain, Network and Anchorman The Legend of Ron Burgundy). This one shows everyone involved in TV as rather unpleasant. Catherine Keener's character in particular is about as bitchy as Faye Dunaway's character in Network, and director Danny DeVito and Jon Stewart make some nasty executives. Considering that Stewart makes his living spoofing the news (and media in general), this seems like the perfect movie for him. I guess that that's TV, folks. "}{"Title":"Williams Walks On The Dark Side","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Robin Williams in this point of his career decided to do 3 roles with darker themes (The other 2 included Insomnia, with Al Pacino and One Hour Photo.). The result is the VERY dark comedy Death To Smoochy, directed by Danny DeVito. Williams plays Rainbow Randolph, a popular children's television host. Randolph is NOT a nice man as the kids on TV believe he takes payoffs from parents who want their children on his show. He eventually gets caught by the FBI and he's fired. Desperate to fix their tarnished image, the network searches for a new host. They find Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton), a very sweet individual that makes Nora, the producer (Catherine Keener) rather annoyed. However, he is hired and becomes Smoochy The Rhino. Smoochy becomes the most beloved character in the world, and that doesn't sit well with the now destitute Randolph. Soon Randolph is on the crusade to destroy Smoochy, but he's not alone. Smoochy's unscrupulous agent (DeVito), the network president (Jon Stewart), and a crooked children's charity boss (Harvey Fierstein)want Smoochy's purple (or is it fruschia?)hide.This film got a bad rap and sank at the box office. DVD has given it a new lease on life. Williams' performance is incredibly manic and vulgar (In particular the scene involving a cookie). Funny and biting look at children's television. If you rent or buy the DVD, check out the commentary by DeVito. It's worth every penny. "},{"Title":"What A Surprise This Was, Smoochy Is A Riot!","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had noticed this on my cable several times before and passed, thinking it was likely lame. Not so! I laughed from beginning to end. The writing is top notch with some very witty, dark, wry humor.Edward Norton is so believable as Smoochy, Robin Williams is perfect as the embittered deposed kid's show host. Catherine Keener plays her standard role even better than usual.Jon Stewart has a smaller role and is, as would be expected, darkly funny.It starts a little slow, but I knew where it was headed soon after, with a deadbeat, quite funny dry response from Kenner to Norton when he assumes the worst about her character because of her coming to meet him in the place where he was then performing.I'm going to track it down on DVD, I think I want to own this one. If you get a chance, give it a look, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Great idea for a satire sadly loses its bite halfway in.. *SPOILERS*","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sounds good on paper, doesn't it? Robin Williams as a corrupt kid's TV show host who tries to kill his replacement.. who is Edward Norton, a squeaky clean guy in a rhino costume. Add to the mix Catherine Keener as a self-obsessed TV producer and Danny Devito as a sleazy agent and you'll have yourself a black comedy masterpiece, right? Sadly with this script, no.After an initially amusing first half-an-hour with decent riffs on the likes of Barney The Dinosaur, stupid Sesame Street style songs and the state of children's merchandising, the film gets bogged down by too many characters and subplots and loses its wit and focus. Even worse, the movie reveals its gooey centre by redeeming two of the main characters, and turning from a funny satire into a goofy caper flick. This deterioration is not helped by an intensely irritating performance by Michael Rispoli as a washed up boxer, and Mr Williams's most unfunny acting credit ever (And yes, I have seen Patch Adams *shudder*).Edward Norton is about the only one to keep his head above the water, but even he cannot survive the messy ice-skating climax. When his character turns from a sweet-natured do-gooder into a homicidal maniac and then back again at the drop of a hat it must surely rank among the most unconvincing transformations in screen history. When the movie was over all I could think of was the wasted potential.. with the actors these guys had on staff, they (heck, WE) deserved a much better screenplay than the sorry specimen on offer here. Fortunatly, a much better movie exists which is along the same lines as Death To Smoochy, but 10X funnier. It is called Bad Santa, and I heartily recommend it. Meanwhile, kick this sorry effort to the kerb. 4/10 P.S If you do happen to watch this, DON'T stay for the ending credits, or you'll witness a sickening spectacle which has no place in an R rated film.. Robin Williams and Edward Norton dancing.. TOGETHER!! Ugh.. "},{"Title":"I'm On Safari.","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What an excellent film! If you haven't seen this film.............what the hell have you been doing?! I saw this film on TV and since then I have bought the DVD and cannot stop watching it. It's the best movie I've seen in a long time, every character is a splendor to watch. Robin Williams excel's as Rainbow Randolph, Ed Norton fits the Sheldon Mopes character to perfection and all the supporting cast are excellent. Danny Devito does a brilliant job on a film which given the synopsis you wouldn't expect much of a storyline. The whole film is pure genius. Please, if you need a good laugh watch 'Death To Smoochy'. You better grow eyes in the back of your head, you horned piece of s***, because I'm not gonna sleep until worms are crawling up your foam-rubber a**! I'm going' on safari mother f*****! SAH-FAR-I!  "},{"Title":"Special Cookies","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It may just be my weird, zaney, wacky sense of humour - I don't know! - but I thought this film was hilarious! I'd say most of that came down to Robin Williams and his absolute genius performance as Rainbow Randolph. Definitely THE best character he has EVER done! He had me in stitches. I guess credit has to go to the writing staff who gave him those very, funny lines!Really, if you only watch the film for one thing, watch it for Williams' performance - 10 out of 10! This film will no doubtedly not be everyones cup of tea. Don't take it seriously though and you should it enjoy. If you fancy something a little bit different, with some very good acting, and you laugh at Austin Powers' films... Watch this! Destined for cult adoration - EMPIRE Magazine  "},{"Title":"Who thought of this movie???","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Danny Devito, what were you thinking when directing this? You directed War of the Roses and Throw Momma from the train so how do you follow those up with this? How in the world this movie is not part of the bottom 100 is beyond me. I think drivel is the best way to describe this movie. Maybe I expect too much from an actor like Robin William and even Edward Norton, because I sure didn't expect them to participate in a movie this pathetic.Sure it is an original idea to cover the children's shows behind the scenes, but this was poorly done. At first I thought it was a satire, then I thought a straight comedy, then maybe a drama. I just couldn't get into the characters and the plot. This movie was a risk that should not have been taken.A total bomb. "},{"Title":"Undeniably a great comedy, totally underrated","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you ask people about this movie hardly anyone out there's heard of this movie, this movie deserved more cinema advertising. First of all Danny Devito is directing this movie, which in most cases is a big thing when a celebrity actor directs a movie plus he also acts in this movie too & is very funny , secondly Edward Norton is staring in this movie not to mention hes the main star, his acting in this movie is as usual very excellent & its funny how hes all innocent & gets all weird when someone swears, &  the third thing is that Robin Williams is also in this movie not to mention his role in this movie was probably the funniest role ive seen Robin Williams do, no joke his dialogues in this movie were totally superb, if you think that Robin Williams isn't funny trust me after watching this you'll have a different opinion. Everything about this movie is great. A movie you can even watch with the family, it has some language in it. I give this a perfect 10 / 10.   Pure entertainments  "},{"Title":"not a good idea","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was really excited to see this movie-I thought it'd be a funny movie, a mock on Barney. Please don't waste your time on this! It has horrible language (doesn't help with the movie at all and is just useless) and the plot was worthless. I felt like the love interest was weak; I was not convinced that this time, it's different. There was nothing good about this movie, so sad to see that so many great people were in it. I enjoyed Hook, Aladdin, and Good Will Hunting and thought this would be classic Robin Williams...needless to say, I was disappointed. The goodness of Smoochy isn't very convincing either. He comes off as a naive kid, who is just going to be taken advantage of. I feel like I have been, may I please have my time and money back? Please don't waste yours.  "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs. Unfunny, insignificant kids' TV satire.","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was amused by Robin Williams' opening song Friends Come in All Sizes, but generally i bid you avoid this movie. You have to be very open minded to not think this is a silly waste of your time. Its a satire of the children's television world, likening it to the viciousness and competitiveness of big business - but you have to ask yourself, why? Why was this an important subject of satire? It wasn't, really. A highly insignificant film, about a peppy do-gooder, Edward Norton (Primal Fear, American History X) who takes over the timeslot of established kids TV old hat Robin Williams, oblivious to the network politics behind him. Robin Williams spends most of the movie looking more scary than funny as the ex-kids' TV star gone deranged and bent on executing his revenge on the man who took it all away from him, peppy Norton.My family began throwing things at the television ten minutes in, and left the room twenty minutes in. You probably won't be as patient as i was, staying till the end, mostly from sheer morbid curiosity. Stinkers rarely come as bad as this. But what can you expect, from Danny DeVito directing. "},{"Title":"Great Film, not for Everyone","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films, but it is often maligned as being abstract and just plain goofy.  It is a black comedy; you will laugh at things you won't like laughing at, or just be plain disgusted.  If you like dark comedy however, it is a masterpiece.  The film is set in the Children's entertainment industry and the corruption therein.  Rainbow Randolph (Robin Williams) is convicted of accepting Payola and he is removed from the network.  The search is on now for a suitable replacement, a person that is as clean and virtuous as they can get.  They find Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton) aka Smoochy the Rhino.  Mopes' virtue in the film (it's like they dragged him from Berkley, CA circa 1970) sharply contrasts the industry that is supposed to help and entertain children, making its corruption that much more prominent.  Here you have charities that order hits, the Irish mob protecting children's stars and Randolph's decent into madness and alcoholism.  Makes me laugh.If your favorite films of Robin Williams are Awakenings and What Dreams May Come, you will not like his character.  If you like his stand-up and his role in The Fisher King, you will probably like his role.  He plays it very over the top and, in my opinion, his is the best part of the film. Everyone else does a great job too, though it is hard to see Harvey Firestein in an intimidating role.  It is well shot and well directed.  It is dark, depressing and hilarious, like an episode of 60 Minutes with a laugh track. Watch with caution. "}{"Title":"a camp talking dinosaur","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERSI've been wanting to see Death To Smoochy for quite some time. I'd missed it at the cinema (It wasn't on for long, if at all, if my memory serves me correctly) and it's taken me a long time to finally rent it. Ultimately though, it was probably worth the wait.In Death To Smoochy we're introduced to Rainbow Randolph Smiley (played with manic energy by Robin Williams). Randolph, a beloved children's presenter is fired after being arrested for fixing who's child goes on the front row. Eager to avoid another catastrophe, the tv executives hire Shelton Mopes (Ed Norton) to bring Mopes' dinosaur Smoochy to children's tv. This leaves Randolph bitter, twisted, and desperate for revenge.In this movie, the partnership of Williams and Norton is, to say the least, genius. Williams as the insane Randolph and Norton as the ridiculously camp, morally perfect Shelton, are an amazing duo leading a solid cast on a route of daft laughs. With a lively colour scheme and a twisted sense of humour, we're presented to the extreme world of children's television which is not quite as innocent as it might seem.Truth be told, there's not much which can be said about Death To Smoochy. The movie has a solid plot line with some amazing jokes, the problem though is that something just doesn't seem to click. It's a good enough piece of entertainment to be able to sit and just mellow out to, but it doesn't feel like it quite has the edge to really be up there amongst those films I'd consider buying and watching over and over again. I'd love to know what it is which makes the movie feel wrong, but I really don't have a clue. Perhaps it's me, I'm not sure. All I know is that this movie makes me laugh and it makes me smile, but it doesn't really hit me hard. It's not hilarious, it's just nice. "},{"Title":"Heart felt... it touches and makes you laugh","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i went to the video shop and choose a film with Edward Fight Club Norton in a giant purple rhino costume on the cover. And i must say it was definately a change.Even if the plot is strange and it's a bit childish in parts it is absoulutely awesome. Norton as always is at his finest. And with Danny DeVito and Robin Williams standing at his side it makes you think. Imagine what Barney does in his spare time!!!!Norton is a child/junkie entertainer who finally has the luck of the breaking the surface on to children's tv. Unfortunately for him its just because every other performer they know is mental, violent, stoned or in the wrong country! With high hopes and a motto that goes  you cant change the world, but you cant make a dent Norton gets tossed about by charities, an Irish Mob and his own friends. With a case of mistaken identity somebody's plan is fouled... and all i can say is that the very ending is dissapointing but over all WOOHOO!A hippy with mood swings, a mental alcoholic and a sleasy business man. Obviously it has some laughs. And even if every other person on this earth hated it, id still love it. This just proves how much talent hippy-physco Edward Norton has. See it and be the judge. "},{"Title":"Funny As Hell!!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is hilarious and funny as hell!! It's better than a lot of the movies made in the past couple of years. Danny DeVito directed a masterpiece. Robin Williams is hilarious. He can always make me laugh. Danny DeVito(who directed the movie) and Harvey Fierstein are also hilarious. They can also always make me laugh. Those three(Williams, DeVito, and Fierstein) should do a lot more movies together, since they are all hilarious. In every scene they are in they are funny. I couldn't stop laughing.Bottom line I recommend this movie to everyone. Anyone who watches this masterpiece will laugh their ass off!10/10 "},{"Title":"Kiss of death","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I laughed harder and louder at DEATH TO SMOOCHY than I have laughed at any other movie I can recall. The key word here is at -- I didn't laugh with it; I didn't laugh about it. I laughed at it.Smoochy is a horrible, terrible unbelievably bad movie. I can think of no film that is quite so ill-conceived, tasteless and heavy-handed, yet done with such arrogant self assurance. The fact that director Danny De Vito and writer Adam Resnick don't realize just how awful their material really is makes it all rather sad. The fact that they blindly trudged onward and downward in total ignorance of the mess they are making is sadly hilarious.The premise is promising. Two rival kiddie show hosts - - one corrupt and evil, the other absurdly innocent and sweet -- battle for the hearts and minds of America's toddlers. You know the satire will be heavy-handed and obvious from the first scene There we see Robin Williams (as Rainbow Randolph, the evil host) dance around on the set of his TV show, which is decorated by giant dollar signs. How obvious can you get? What follows includes a lot of foul language, mob executions, Nazi rallies, tasteless ethnic stereotyping and unrelentingly stupid plot twists. By the time the ending rolls around -- which involves an assassination attempt at a children's ice-capades performance -- any hope of the film being even slightly logical or even mildly clever have long since died. And is there anything as tragically unfunny as plotting to kill a kids show host in an auditorium full of toddlers? What kind of sick mind would even hope to make this funny?Yet, I laughed at it. Not while watching it, but afterward, on the way home. I couldn't help myself. I sat at stop lights and just broke out laughing. I laughed at how desperate the filmmakers were to get a laugh. I laughed at how insipid the story was and how clumsy each plot twist was belched into the narrative. I laughed at how outrageously silly and offensive the film got. I laughed the loudest remembering out utterly dim-witted the closing credits were. My laughs were cruel, but after enduring two hours of stumbling stupidity, I think I earned the right to be cruel.What I didn't laugh at were the poor actors. I had nothing but pity for most of the pathetic (if well paid) wretches who were trapped in this mess. Though I can praise Edward Norton for the consistent sweetness of his performance as the benignly insipid Smoochy, I cannot be so generous to Williams, Once again given free reign to mug and riff and shamelessly overact, he runs amok, and not in the good Robin Williams way.To it's credit, DEATH TO SMOOCHY is a unique motion picture. Not since the 1960's -- which gave us stuff like YELLOW SUBMARINE, MYRA BRECKENRIDGE, CASINO ROYALE and SKI-DOO -- has a film had the nerve to be so unpredictably absurd. But those films at least could argue that they were heavily influenced by drugs. SMOOCHY presumably was made by sober people with clear intentions, which in itself is a scary notion. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all!","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Any movie with the exquisite Catherine Keener in it is worth watching. Any movie with Robin Williams in an even slightly funny role is worth watching. And any movie that features the cool Edward Norton -- who I believe is one of the best actors of his generation -- is well worth watching. With that said, sure, Smoochy still has its share of corny, but even those parts fit well because of the theme (doing a children's show). I found this movie very entertaining, and the story held my interest all the way through. And it is Norton who actually makes it a good comedy, rather than Williams. Oh, and having the Irish mob to boot makes it even better! hehe ... B "},{"Title":"Why all the Smoochy-bashing?","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll admit, Death to Smoochy is not Casablanca, but it is not THAT bad of movie.  Most people who bash are not fans of the kind of dark comedy that it uses, but I definitely am.  I mean come on, Robin Williams referred to a penis-shaped cookie as Rumple-foreskin!  And the casting was perfect, too. Besides the main characters (Williams, Ed Norton, Devito, Keener), each of the other roles was cast perfectly.  Michael Rispoli was perfect as the childish but loveable Spinner (interestingly, Henry Rollins auditioned for the role.  THAT would have been interesting!), and Jon Stewart (even with the rediculous hair) had possibly the best movie role of his career (not saying much).  And Vincent Schiavelli was the perfect actor for Buddy Ding Dong, a junked out ex-kiddy show host out to get his spot back by any means necessary.  Good premise, good acting, somewhat dry script, but one of my favorite dark comedies. 8-10  "},{"Title":"An absolute GEM.","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death to Smootchy is an absolute GEM. Danny DeVito has once again rendered a sly comic masterpiece that only improves with multiple viewings. The dry witty deadpan marvelously contrasts to the manic Williams in this sardonic send up that nimbly rips Hollywood and it's raging egos. I'll bet more than one showbiz fatcat was irked to apoplexy with this marvelous tongue in cheek swipe at of what passes for entertainment with Hollywoods' movers and shakers, and all done with great wit and panache. Did I mention this is one very funny movie? Do not hesitate to view this wonderful film that took courage to make and takes some intelligence to appreciate. This is not your basic Scary Movie three yukfest aimed at the lowest common denominator, there is real talent here, from script, lighting and timing, to the fabulous performances. Kudos to Danny DeVito for a deeply satisfying, way cool comedy. 4 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"Good film actually","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know I may be a bit pragmatic but I reckon this isn't as bad a film after all when I think about it. Although this is far from Robin Williams' best and Edward Norton has done more serious roles, this film has enough amusement and humour to be worth watching. Danny De Vito is good too. Roll on the UK release!!! "},{"Title":"It's a rocket ship!","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The critics hated it.  I love it!  Death To Smoochy, odd and sick, got my attention from the first scene.  The entire movie is worth seeing Edward Norton in costume, and Robin Williams is at his nastiest since his Dead Again cameo.Smoochy goes where none have gone before - into the world of children's television - but this movie ain't for the kiddies.  It's about the cutthroat adult stuff that goes on offstage in the corporate world of milking kids for every dime of their milk money.  Nobody is spared.  You'll find midgets galore, a kidshow groupie, a brain-injured boxer, methadone entertainment, and plenty of Nazis for everyone.  Can Smoochy save the kids from food additives and perversion?  According to Smoochy, `You can't change the world, but you can make a dent.'I own this DVD, but I'll rate it as highly rentable.Miles Keaton Andrew  "},{"Title":"Monty Python does Barney","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Look folks, a Devito film is like pat, either you like it...or you don't. Personally, I found this film to be a gem.This film is hilarious. My wife and I were both in tears. If you love dark, well written, superbly acted satire, good hunting. The cast is, in a word, remarkable. Robin Williams' manic energy is perfect for his character's slide to rock bottom, where he then digs deeper. VERY funny stuff.It is not for everyone, thankfully. If this film had been focus grouped, it would have never been made. I'm hopeful that this will be a film that will have a long, fruitful live on DVD and will be regarded in the future as a classic.  "}{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am dead serious.  I feel like Danny Devito is incapable of bad work. This, a more recent directing turn, is a dark comedy that follows the seething underbelly of juvenile entertainment.  Alot of people say this film is rediculous, and that may be so, but Robin Williams delivers a great performance as a bitter ex-television star who is desperately trying to ruin the character who takes his place, played by Edward Norton.  I think the thing about this film that I love, is the blatent profanity and violence with a surrounding of little kids and kiddie music.  The Rocketship cookie and Nazi rally scenes are classic.  Let us not forget the wonderful performances by Catherine Keener as a jilted ex character admirer/t.v. executive, and Danny DeVito, respectively.  I loved this movie through and through.  Rock On Devito, you're a genius.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Another crap Robin Williams film","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Poor old Robin Williams....why is he just so annoying?  This film is irritating and tiresome.  Any attempt to be darkly funny and biting is negated by the hyperactive Williams and Ed Norton, who does his best to emulate the pesky Williams.  I ended up turning this atrocity off to end up watching un dos tres on Spanish TV - now THERE'S a travesty! "},{"Title":"Fun and Funny","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a fun movie, with Robin Williams doing what he does best - being funny and being psychotic all in the same performance.  Ed Norton plays a perfectly politically correct - and proud of it - TV kids show host who becomes the target of charities when he won't play their game, to help them make a little extra pocket cash.  Norton and Williams are the highlight of the film, but there are other funny moments too.  I recommend it as a great Friday night, stay at home and laugh your pants off date. "},{"Title":"Very funny, very good!","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was the funniest movie i've seen in a long time, I didn't watched it with a lot of expectations so maybe that's why, but I think it's as good as it felt, very good cast, funny dialogue throughout and pretty unique story makes at least in my mind a strong movie, so see it, maybe you hate it or maybe not. I just wanna add that Catherine Keener has great comedic timing, I noticed that in Being John Malkovich too so I hope we gonna see her more(She's nice to look at too). "},{"Title":"Very odd and original.","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  DEATH TO SMOOCHYRATING *** (OUT OF ****)Hated by critics, Death To Smoochy isn't nearly as bad as it's made out to be.  Robin William stars as Rainbow Randolph, a corrupt Barney-esque children's show host, who is fired from his job and replaced by Smoochy, played by Edward Norton.  Norton's character is annoying, and William's character is mean-spirited and obnoxious.  Add to this story subplots about mafias, nazis, and beheadings, and you get Death To Smoochy, a comedy that while not for everyone, is bound to tickle a few funny bones (what??). "},{"Title":"something different","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tonight I watched Death to Smoochy and I think it's not a bad movie. I was getting a little bit tired of movies that couldn't show us something different. E.g. The Matrix (episode 1) was great, thereafter I saw the second one and my appetite for going to the matrix episode 3 was instantly over. Death to Smoochy is a movie for people who want to see something different. Okay, it says that it is a comedy, but I would describe this movie rather as a feel good movie. No flashy stunts, no sci-fi, no time wasted on bed scenes that we have already seen for 100s of times. I just looooove the part of smoochy and moochy. People who saw the movie and don't know why I just looooove that part of the movie? Well, then you probably didn't follow the story line quite as well as you all thought that you did -p. So, if you want a movie with lots of blood spoiled, lots of naked sexy women, lots of aliens, lots of violence, lots of hilarious scenes, well, then it's not wise to rent or buy this movie. But if you just want to see something different on a quiet Friday night, well, watch this movie and you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"brilliant casting, unique film","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i absolutely adored death to smoochy and am sad i listened to the critics when it first came out, causing me to miss it on the big screen. perhaps this film doesn't fit in any particular genre niche, but that's what i like about it. i dig comedies with music, i enjoy black comedy -- in small doses -- and i definitely dig movies with an underlying message. smoochy provides all that and more. robin williams is absolutely fabulous as rainbow randolph; this is one of his best performances, and i've seen quite a few of his films. edward norton makes for a perfectly believeable smoochy, with no traces of irony in his portrayal. the set work is amazing, the costuming, the music -- everything is just right. and the story itself is quite unique subject matter that lends itself to some really fun situations. i totally recommend this as a fun rental with friends who appreciate movies like waiting for guffman, ishtar, the ruttles etc etc... "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny Movie","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it is just me but I thought this movie was hilarious!  A little uneven at times, but funny nonetheless.  I believe I must be its target audience because I have always thought of children's shows as marketing tools.  This movie blows up that whole industry.Ed Norton was good in this role.  He plays the squeaky clean character and Robin Williams plays the psychopath.  I think they could have switched roles and still done a good job.  And I don't know much about big lips Catherine Keener but she is hot.   "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best films of all time.  This was the perfect way to show some of the problems of kid's shows today.  Almost all of the hosts have had problems or gone on to have problems.  No one is perfect except Smoochy.  Edward Norton was as awesome as he has ever been.  This is a man who knows how to bring out his character and really live the part.  Robin Williams was just a great as he ever was.  I always think he is funny and he always plays his parts great also.  One little problem I had was the language.  Don't get me wrong I curse but there is a limit to it and sometimes there was not even a real point to it.Oh well to each his own.  This was still a great movie and needs to be watched by all at some point.  Go buy this movie.  I did. "},{"Title":"The host with the most.","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Director Danny DeVito offers us a comedy that is sympathetic and hilarious...in a sick fashion. A disgraced kids TV show icon(Robin Williams)is obsessed with serving revenge on his squeaky-clean replacement(Edward Norton). Situational comedy only goes so far. Norton acts like a deer caught in the proverbial car headlights. On the other hand Williams bellows and rants like a bullmoose in heat. And what competitors won't do to be on top of the heap. The cast also featuresJon Stewart, Catherine Keener, Harvey Fierstein and Pam Ferris along with DeVito. Just because the plot evolves around kiddie show programing...doesn't mean it is recommended for the wee ones.  "}{"Title":"To all the those who hate this movie Your taking it to seriously","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to Smoochy is one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time. It's the kind of movie that filled with good satirical comedy. Kid TV shows have been around forever, (Barney, Sesame Street,) these shows started out as just shows on public television soon though we see them sell out and start trying to make millions off it. That where Death to Smoochy takes its shots at kids programming. It may seem a little far fetched at times but this film always make sure that u know that its just a comedy nothing more. I find it very aggravating that people can hate a film that they don't understand or that they take to seriously. The bias towards this film has been done by a bunch of uneducated and most like wannabe film critics who only look for flaws in films rather than the film as a whole. things to remember when watching a movie- you don't have to be Ebert and Roper watch a movie if the movie not enjoyable then its not enjoyable, don't go and write an over the top criticism on a basis that you yourself are angry that the film didn't turn this film into an over the top drama or a low budget piece of s***. I'm tired of people making bad comments on a film that was enjoyed by many the films that deserve this are on IMDB 100 worst films of all time so save your useless insults and uninspired puns for another Junior college drop out. Robin William and Edward Norton are great here. Edward Norton is the naive but likeable character Smoochy a man in a giant rhino costume whose actually is in it to please children. Then we meet his nemesis Robin Williams aka Rainbow Randolph a greedy man whose one joy into life if charging kids to be on his show. We see the rise of Smocchy and the downfall of Randolph. Along the way we see the darker side of children television which is filled with greed, violence and the mafia.  "},{"Title":"Barney The Big Purple Drug Addict","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With Robin Williams as the main star and Danny DeVito directing, you'd think Death To Smoochy would have been funnier...but it's not, unfortunately.  There aren't enough laughs and there's too much dark humour.I find Barney and the Teletubbies annoying enough.  Williams's Rainbow Randolph and Edward Norton's Smoochy characters are just as annoying.See Throw Momma From The Train instead.Rating  * "},{"Title":"You can't change the world, but you can make a dent!","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time! Gut busting laughs, memorable characters, fantastic dialogue, this movie deserves more credit than it initally received. I know this will become a cult classic in years to come.Robin Williams gives one of his greatest comedic performances, and Danny DeVito triumphs once again as a director, I always look forward to his movies with anticipation. There are so many classic lines in this movie!If you happen to come across this movie on cable or in the video store, do your self a favor and pick it up, you will love it! "},{"Title":"Such a great movie...","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw Death to Smoochy today, and loved it. It was really an excellent movie. Great acting, superb directions, and a pretty good script. It definitely was pretty much the dirtiest movie I have ever seen, and I've watched my share of pornos and semi-porns (Showgirls, Striptease). Many of the dirty jokes were even hidden so the audience only got like 2/3s of them.Robin Williams was awesome like he normally is. Ed Norton proved why he is mentioned on everyone's top ten lists of actors. Danny DeVito, who I normally find annoying, was really good too. Catherine Keener (from Being John Malkovich, yeah, that sucked) was good, even for an actress. I normally don't like actresses, but she had a really big part and did it well. And you know who was in it? The guy from Ghost who would do anything for one last drag, and he, surprise, played a heroin fiend who looked homeless. Also, Mickey from Seinfeld was in it! Wooo midgets!Awesome movie, I definitely recommend it. But be prepared, it's extremely vulgar, and the fact that it centers around a kids' TV show makes it even more perverse. And that's coming from me.9/10. Maybe 9.5 "},{"Title":"It should have been funny","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It should have been funny. But it's not. I love dark comedies but this one just doesn't work.Even if the casting is very good (Williams and Norton), it can't compensate for a bad script. Some scenes were out of place, even in a dark comedy, like the scene where Moochy is killed  it's too much violent to have its place in a comedy. It was filmed like it was a part of a gangster film.3/10. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i dont understand why so many ppl diliked this movie i found very funny the story is so dark and stupid at times that u have to laugh robin williams puts ona great perfermence but when doesnt he  and edward norton is such a great acter robins humor and edwards great acting makes agreat combo i would recomend this movie to a person who like dark funny for no reason pointless humor which some ppl like  "},{"Title":"Heil Smoochy!","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" PLOT SUMMARY An innocent, yet sincere, child star makes it to the big time... and everyone wants a piece of his action - including his life!Hilarious, Funny, Laugh out Loud comedy. You'll laugh and even shed a tear or two.Robin Williams at his best - manic.Edward Norton plays the lead role of Smoochy utterly convincingly - from start to finish.Michael Rispoli as Spinner Dunn is utterly convincing.The entire ensemble is great. Very funny, it's a must see. 10/10.-Zafoid "},{"Title":"Greatest comedy of recent years","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely hilarious! If you're a fan of good comedy or even just good acting, this is the movie for you. After ZAZ broke up and Mel Brooks stopped making movies, it seemed that the only good comedy we could get was from the few jokes from Christopher Guest's movies. Then this movie came along and was completely hilarious... yet bombed at the box office. It just proves that swearing can ruin a movie.... Anyway, for the best laughs in recent years AND a great story, go see this film, unless you're really easily offended, in which case go to a psychiatrist and ask for some help. "},{"Title":"I hope it never comes out here!!","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has not been released in Britain however somebody seemed to have it downloaded on their computer and I heard about the cast and I thought I'd give it a shot. After seeing I could see why Britain didn't give it cinematic release, it is appalling! Robin Williams is as miscast as can be as is Edward Norton, none of the jokes are funny and plenty of good talent is wasted. Shame really cos I really like Robin Williams. I hope this never ever gets a DVD or video release over in the UK "},{"Title":"Death To Smoochy is ridiculous and not funny","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death to Smoochy,First-Viewing, TV,(Danny DeVito)- Edward Norton, Robin Williams, Catherine Keener, Danny DeVito, John StewartI can't believe Edward Norton and Robin Williams did this film. Norton being the great actor he is, and Williams also having done some very good drama work recently, and even his comedy was good, this film is neither too funny nor has any dramatic feel. It's a Rated-R film, but feels like its made for 5 year old throughout. After seeing this, I think Danny DeVito should definitely think about what he is directing. A silly story about a children show host (Williams) who loses his job to a man named Sheldon Mopes (Norton) who makes a rhino character called Smoochy. The former host who gets fired because of Mopes now wants revenge. The film is not a dark comedy, most of it wasn't funny. At best it had some interesting over the top scenes. Catherine Keener was decent in her role, Danny DeVito probably had the best performance of the film, Robin Williams was annoyingly over the top, easily the worst I have seen him, Norton was decent, not himself though, it's the first bad performance I have seen from Norton. It had an interesting plot, and if done right, could have been an interesting film, but it seemed like DeVito was trying to make a dark humor film, without the humor!. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Death to Smoochy is GREAT!!!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember when this first hit the theater I really wanted to see it, but as fate would have it I wasn't able to get myself to the theater in time to see it.  I couldn't believe how quickly this film was in and out of the theaters.  I saw the trailers for it and couldn't believe that it could be THAT bad.  So, finally the film came out to DVD and I wasted no time in renting it.  Death to Smoochy is awesome!  I makes me so sad that it didn't do very well in the theater.  The cast is awesome, the story is hilarious, the acting great, the directing is top-notch, everything about this film is great.Edward Norton is a truly gifted actor, and he plays the part of Sheldon Mopes perfectly!  His character is awesome and extremely well done.  Then you throw Robin Williams into the mix, a great actor as well, a bit of a different turn from his typical roles, but nonetheless pulls it off.  It seems weird to hear Robin Williams cuss, but it works well in the film and definitely with the character.  Catherine Keener deserves some notice as well, not a terribly well known actress, but hopefully she will be someday.  Great actress!  Danny DeVito, Michael Rispoli, Jon Stewart and Harvey Fierstein also deserve some notice, they all play their parts very well.I will admit however, that this film is definitely not for everyone.  I can surely see why some people would dislike it and why this wouldn't appeal to a lot of people.  It's not a happy story and it's definitely got a great deal of dark humor to it.  Dark comedies are usually not my cup of tea, but there is something about this film that I really like.Like I said this film isn't going to appeal to everyone, so I wouldn't recommend it to just anyone.  I guess, if the trailer makes the film look interesting to you and you like dark comedies then go for it.  If you're simply a fan of the one the actors, then be my guest, check it out.  All I can really say, is I loved it and I hope you do too.  Thanks for reading.-LebowskiT1000 "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From the first commercial I saw of Death to Smoochy, I knew I had to see it. First off, it had Robin Williams in it. I hadn't seen Robin Williams do anything worth seeing for quite some time, and for some reason the film spoke to me, like the voice in Field of Dreams. Second, it had Ed Norton in it, who is one of the most careful actors in Hollywood today. He only chooses movies that he knows are worth his involvement, and I must say thank goodness he believed in this. And finally, it was directed by Danny DeVito, who has always had my respect as a hilarious guy and a fine filmmaker. When I heard he was directing this film and that it was, in fact, a comedy that was rated R, I immediately called my buddy Jason (who was thinking the exact same thing by this point) and in March of 2002, we headed for the cinemas. Every aspect of Death to Smoochy sets it apart from any film I've seen in the past four years. Not only did it have a stunning cast and a truly original story, but it was also unbelievably funny. This was a film that both my friend and I felt was made specifically for us. It had a style of humor that is usually lacking in all comedies of present. And the actors performing those lines couldn't have done a better job. We were two out of probably five people in the theatre, including the father of the year that brought his two five year old children to see it. Apparently the large R rating that was branded across the screen didn't convince him that there was any reason to doubt this movie would be appropriate for his toddlers. I think after the first expletive was uttered, a whopping three or four minutes into the feature, dad should have probably known where this was going. But no, he and his children remained through every single hilarious minute. From the dill-dough cookie to the Jersey Nazi rally, Death to Smoochy was a roller coaster ride of unbelievably hilarious proportions, even if it was definitely not appropriate for children. But hey, that's why we have a rating system. The cinematography was surprisingly well thought out and classy, done in such a way that made Death to Smoochy rise from being just another Hollywood comedy to an original venture that no one can lay claim to. I own the DVD and bought it the day it came out, and every time I watch it I see or hear something new. The color schemes they used in the film were completely believable and yet surprisingly meaningful. You see the brightness of the characters' wardrobe and immediately are reminded of cartoons or other children's' programming. Nora and Sheldon wear complimentary colors every time they are around each other, and creates an almost subconscious acceptance of their relationship. Everything looks soft and almost innocent, when the harsh dialogue and rough situations stand as a direct contrast. The film is an amazingly woven quilt of comedy, tenderness, edge, intrigue, and silliness. I commend Danny DeVito (unlike nearly every other critic out there) for his decision to take on this edgy, original, ambitious script and breathe such life into it that it literally leapt off the pages and did the jiggy ziggy dance.  "},{"Title":"Ebert was wrong!","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ebert was definitely wrong! This was a wickedly dark comedy worth watching, if not just for Robin Williams' classic accents...his Rainbow Randolph theme song can get stuck in your head! Edward Norton shines in the role of Sheldon Mopes, environmentalist and ethical puritan extraordinaire. His battle of ethical pursuits is the main theme of the movie, along with a nice, happy love story and such unlikely characters as an Irish mob mistress, a not-so-bright ex-boxer and the various evil executives behind America's biggest T.V. network for kids.The cinematography is excellent, the opening five minutes proof enough of that director/actor Danny Devito hits the nail on the head, using crazy, creepy angles and shots to capture the sinister world of children's television.Ignore the critics, give Death to Smoochy a shot...if you like intelligent (and sometimes simple)comedy, this is for you!***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Underrated black comedy guaranteed to deliver","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  DeVito does it again with a black comedy worth more cheers than jeers. Stabbing at children's television and the television business in general with huge laughs and exaggerated plot twists make it a movie worth laughing with, not at.You can't not say any one of Death To Smoochy's characters is not played straight *no pun intended*.  The storyline and subtext beneath it demand humor; the television business is so jaded and ugly (represented by Keener, DeVito, and Stewart's characters) that rather than turning this into another Network the catch was to make it as outrageous as possible.  All the elements of contrast (Smoochy vs. Rainbow Randolph) and added elements of corruption (Tommy Cotter and Spinner) are so uncalled for in such an expose, you can't help but laugh.Robin Williams tears right at your gut with Rainbow Randolph at the end of his mental rope, while Pam Ferris and Michael Rispoli make me laugh even harder with their totally hilarious Irish Mafia bit.  The entire cast comes together as a fabulous ensemble.  While this isn't a groundbreaker or a cinematic masterpiece, it's a damn good island of a movie if I ever saw one.Death to Smoochy doesn't deserve the downplay it got from the critics; the formula for this movie makes it simply funny to watch.  It keeps with you for the rest of the week after you see it, and who hasn't been caught humming Friends Come in all Sizes once and a while? "},{"Title":"Another Allegory for the Passion of Christ (w/ Blakian Finale)","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie.When Nora breaks through and believes in Sheldon, I believed with her.When Randolph leagues with Sheldon in the end, it's William Blake's vision of The Marriage of Heaven and Hell writ very sly and sweet.I loved the writing; lots of spry one-liners that didn't leave a bad aftertaste.  The execution was wonderful.I agreed with my friend after we watched Smoochy; it's not fair to expect everyone to like it, but it's equally not fair to feel guilty about liking it yourself.  There's meat here to get you to suspend your critical faculties a bit, become a kid (albeit with a slight hormone problem), and enjoy the show!Do watch it with the Christ allegory in mind; it's fun!  Look for  Christ (duh!), the Devil, The Pharisees, Mary Magdalene, the little children, the Cherubim/Seraphim, etc., etc.  Have a good time!  "},{"Title":"This dark comedy with DeVito and Williams hit it off.","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For me I found this movie to be highly under-rated. A person honestly must have a sick and twisted mind to understand the Genius of a genre called Dark Comedy.Dark Comedy is a genre that makes fun of death and other distasteful items.I found this movie to be excellent and it Is Robin Williams most under-rated film. I loved how this movie was set up and it gives you a taste of what the purple giant really might be like under that suit. I like how it is set up from the cookie scene to the musical assassination rent this movie, get some buddies, eat some popcorn and have a ball!I give it 3 dirty little cookies out of 5 (it's a joke from the movie)***/*****  "},{"Title":"Deserves a cult following...","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm amazed how many people hated this movie. I totally missed it when it was out in theaters (i guess it went through pretty quick), but after just watching it, I think its one of the most well-done movies I have seen in the last couple years. As satire, even without a specific audience, it is pure gold. The writing is spectacular, and the humor is, well, more humorous than most of the drivel Hollywood turns out these days. What more could you want in a movie? Excellent acting? Well Robin Williams is at his best, Catherine Keener shines as always, and Ed Norton, although slightly unbelievable at first, falls perfectly into his role as the perfect child of soy and clowns, albeit with a dark history (that is only mentioned once when he talks about anger management courses, losing an interesting backstory if you ask me).This movie is good enough to appeal to a certain movie-loving niche that I am happy to consider myself a part of. Give it a chance, and if you hate it, you're not alone. But I'm definitly not standing with you. "},{"Title":"Best Black Comedy!","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why did this film get such bad reviews?  I thought it was one of the best black comedies I have seen in a LONG time, perhaps ever.  Robin Williams was excellent as Rainbow Randolph, and Norton's squeaky clean Mopes was fantastic.  It has a clever script that had an entertaining story and excellent visuals.  The songs are clever and funny and the colours were bright and vivid.  DeVito did an excellent job directing and acting, creating a film that as said is entertaining on all levels that is truly laugh out loud funny.  I loved this film! 10/10!!! "},{"Title":"this movie messed me up for life.","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie messed me up for life, and I will never watch it again.  With that said, let it be known that I loved every moment of it.  It is dark, it is tragic, it is hilarious.  First class performances by all of the actors allowed for the necessary mental adjustments required in order to properly enjoy the film.I watched the DVD in my home with a couple of very good friends, and we finished the movie with almost identical expressions of horror and awe. We immediately agreed to never watch this movie again, and that it had indeed messed us all up for life.I'm glad I rented it, and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys riding the waves on the dark rivers of the human experience. "},{"Title":"Awesome Dark Comedy","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** The people that are trashing this movie obviously don't get it. it's wonderfully written with a dark point of view. All the actors are great and this is a big time name brand acting crew. Edward Norton, Catherine Keener, and Robin Williams play it to the hilt and are all great to watch. At the end, good overcomes evil and the boy gets the girl. What's not to like about that? I don't quite understand why some people are trashing this movie. It is a dark comedy but if you expect that coming into the movie and like the genre this is a very funny movie (with bite!).  "}{"Title":"Dark Satire doesnt get much better.","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"     I just recently had the pleasure to watch Death to Smoochy, the movie that was declared the worst movie of the year.  I was quite surprised by how much I enjoyed the movie- it is an over the top satire-that I loved. The movie takes to task, in a quite funny way- the amount of crude commercialism found in programming towards young children- and also the amount of money so called charity receives.  On this level- the movie works wonderfully- the first scene is hilarious and sets the pace- when Robin Williams receives a pay off from parents to get their kids on the Rainbow Randolph show.  Sure, maybe the whole Irish Mob, and the contracts on Smoochy's life get a little out of hand- but this movie is so extreme and over the top, that such plot twists work. I think alot of people may have been put off- by how politically incorrect the movie was- and honestly I do not know why.  The movie never was serious except for its message that Childrens television has become a morally bankrupt sewer of capitalism.   I dont know how anyone could not crack up during the Ice show scenes- I was dying with laughter- or when Rainbow Randolph switches his cookies with smoochys- very funny stuff.  Give Smoochy a chance.      "},{"Title":"a fun plot gone wrong","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a disaster of a movie with a plot that could have been hilarious.  I'm not sure what went wrong, other than the fact that it seemed unevenly cast and the script was just downright bad.  It's a shame because it's a great premise.  It should have been much, much funnier.  Instead, it was slow, somewhat mean-spirited, and boring. "},{"Title":"Movie Critics obviously don't know anything about film!","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this film!  It has everything a film needsLaughs, profanity, and some depressing moments and it even has nazi's!  Edward Norton and Vincent Sciavelli shined and it was just an enjoyable film.  Movie critics said it was trash, but I call it performance art!  The cast was great!  See this film! A+! "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sheldon Mopes (Ed Norton) is a small time performer with dreams of making entertainment for kids.  When he is discovered by exec Nora Wells (Katherine Keener), he is given the old spot formerly held by Raindbow Randolph (Robin Williams), who was fired amidst a scandal.  Randolph dedicates what's left of his life to ruining Shedlon, who has to deal with the vulture-like Nora, his scheming manager (Danny DeVito, also the director), the Irish mob (hilarious!), and another former child show star now washed up (Vincent Schiavelli).Danny DeVito has crafted a film that's stupid in a funny way.  I imagine everyone working on this was breaking into spontaneous laughter on the set, because the premise is just so stupid that many people might not even give it a chance.  But he manages to make an entertaining film, with an original story line and good acting.  Buggy Ding Dong was probably the funniest villain i've ever seen, too!  Unfortunetly, most people never saw this, probably because it's just too funny-stupid to appeal to most people.  A funny movie. "},{"Title":"Outrageously fun","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Obviously by the title, you would not want small children to see this movie. A black comedy, Death to Smoochy portrays a seedy side of childrens TV shows - manipulated by gangsters, hosted by dissolute men, and produced for no reason other than to sell unhealthy products to children. As in Awakenings, Robin Williams and Edward Norton play the opposite roles of what you might expect, with crazed Williams spewing foul invectives every other word, and Norton playing the wide-eyed innocent whose smiling purity infects others.  Every performance makes you laugh at the absurdity.  The bad guys in the movie are what make it so fun, and they are all bad guys, with even Norton's Smoochy having graduated from an anger management class. Pam Ferris gives a particularly great performance as a likable version of Bloody Mama, while Harvey Fierstein and Director DeVito add to the fun villainous supporting cast.   "},{"Title":"The ending credits were the best...","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  part of this movie.  We see the 3 main characters flying around the stage.  But, overall, the movie wasn't as bad as some people say. From Rainbow Randolf's silly costume, to Smoochy singing in a methadone clinic, this movie had its funny moments.  There were way too many story line twists, so the plot does get confusing at times.  And it is very dark, for example, a hit gets put out on smoochy. And it is basically about TV people being greedy and evil.FINAL VERDICT  If you enjoy making fun of Barney the purple dinosaur, then you will like Death To Smoochy.  However, if you don't like dark comedies, then it would be best to avoid this. "},{"Title":"Death to Death to Smoochy","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Like a really annoying insurance salesman tapping on your shoulder, this movie plies for your attention and you find yourself watching -- and groaning. Recognizing many familiar faces on the silvery screen, as you watch you begin to wonder how all these people got together to make this atrocity. Perhaps Danny Devito has more pull than God; on the other hand, perhaps he just convinced a lot of talented to people to get together and make a really awful movie. The unforgivable thing about Death to Smoochy is that it offers just enough ocular stimulation to keep watching, at least until the last half hour. My grade 2/10.  "},{"Title":"Terribly underrated and incredibly funny","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having read many negative reviews of Death to Smoochy, I was clueless as to how I would regard this movie. I figured that even if it wasn't good it would still be humorous. I rented it on instinct -- sure, the movie had been slammed by countless people yet there was something about it that reached for my attention.The premise of the movie is simple Rainbow Randy the clown (Robin Williams) takes a bribe involving the placement of a person in the show. The people he conducts this transaction with are undercover agents; Randy is arrested, the media is notified, his show on Kidsnet is cancelled, et cetera. This triggers the need for Nora Wells (Catherine Keener) to find a drop-in replacement for the show. She finds him -- Sheldon Mopes who will become Smoochy the Rhino -- in a methadone clinic where he plays a guitar and sings melodies for the maintenance patients. She offers him a contract to host a television show and he accepts. Randy plots various acts of revenge multiple times throughout the movie.That out of the way, I can't say enough good about this movie. Superb acting and the exponential amount of humor present in this movie is almost supernatural. Moreover, I truly can not understand why so many people have libelled this movie -- it's a masterpeice and a testament to the comedy genre of film. When it comes to movies I'm very picky and scrutinizing, thus you'll understand why I feel so strongly about issuing a counterpoint review of this movie; I didn't notice any flaws whatsoever and laughed throughout the movie. This movie is fabulous and I'm disgusted at how quick people have been -- and are -- to dismiss this movie. Certainly, it's not a movie for everyone -- but this is not an inept movie by any stretch of the imagination. Rent it for yourself and prepare to be suprised, perhaps even angered that a movie like Signs, a movie in which theological and philosophical conversations are held while stereotyped aliens invade the planet, collects more praise than a movie like this. I know I now have a new favorite movie.  "},{"Title":"I hated this movie.","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like bizarre movies.  Really, I do.  I don't know if this was just a big miscasting job or maybe I missed something, but I can only tell you that it just plain seemed to suck.  Too long.  Too pointlessly odd.  And too painful to see a good actor like Robin Williams wasted on such nonsense.  Just my two cents. "},{"Title":"I thought it was funny but not for everyone...","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although I thought Ed Norton was a miscast as Smoochy, I loved his performance.  And although I would catagorize this movie as a black comedy it sometimes teeders on the side of a silly comedy, which doesn't always work for people.  I found the movie very funny, and wonderfully filmed and directed.  The character development and plot was too by the book for such a unique film.  I say if you're in a good mood watch it. "}{"Title":"i loved it!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  so i just don't understand the anti-smoochy hype i've been hearing for the last six months!  A wonderfully helpful NYU student at the video store told me she thought Smoochy was the best black-comedy she'd seen and i heartily agree.  That's what it is too, an amazing black-comedy... a motherly matron of the irish mafia, crazed kiddie-show hosts, a spirulina/almond butter sauce served over soy dogs at Nathan's?  what else could it have been?  I thought it was brilliant, some of the lines (particularly sheldon's (Edward Norton)) were brilliant (wallets with pigtails had me laughing for ten minutes) and the acting was generally well above par!  Some small detractions jon stewart, he just wasn't funny, normally i like him - i guess compared with the unparalleled Robin Williams and the inexpressibly talented Ed Norton his made-for-TV humor comes to the surface.  Also, having watched it a couple of times now, i think Smoochy should have been set in Boston - the original home of Seseme Street and the Irish Mafia... but that's just my opinion.  This is one i'm buying! 9/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is wonderful","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. This is the kind of movie that I would love to make. The acting is magnificent. The photography is beautiful. I found the mix of humor and death to be very powerful. They really go for it in this movie and you can tell the cast had a lot of fun in the making. I found the show that Smoochy puts on to be the perfect kids show, the ice show is amazing. They never pull their punches. The comedy is great and is magnified by the violence. The charities run by guns, the kiddie show star who is a gangster and The killers who are in the right, this movie plays with the notion of strange bedfellows. Simplicity. What if a childrens show was run by killers? What if we were honest to our kids? It explores moral perfection in todays society, and asks the question is it possible? without preaching or playing it safe. This movie is as beautiful as it is original, and I think Danny Devito is one of the smartest men in Hollywood. He surrounded himself with good people and everyone had a good time and that always produces something i like to watch. Robin Cowart  "},{"Title":"In the world of dark humor, this movie is king...","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Comedy comes in many forms. Sometimes it takes a little courage to accept different kinds, and this is one of those kinds. Much of the humor is crude and quite dark, but it will keep you laughing. Besides being quite funny, it also has a lot of heart.Danny Devito is a great director- you can always expect something entertaining and thought provoking from him. Death to Smoochy is probably the most unusual movie I have ever seen, and that's the beauty of it- it's confusingly and amazingly unique.I guess this movie isn't for everyone. Like I said, it really is a unusual brand of humor, but I think it's worth checking out even if you're unsure of it. Hey,... you might like it.  "},{"Title":"Underrated All the Way","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Robin Williams, Jon Stewart, Danny Devito and Ed Norton, Jr. are an amazingline up for one film.  I'm surprised more people didn't take to it, though.  The one  liners alone make this a classic for any fan of the cult film.  Yes, I said cult film.   Ed Norton and Robin Williams' development as a character were very welldone.  You can feel Mopes grow as a person through the entire film, but thedialogue and interaction between the warring factions cleverly disguises them  from the joe-schmoe moviegoer.  Needless to say, it's a keeper and I can't wait  to subject more of my friends to it.   "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although a dismal performer at the box office, 'Death to Smoochy' had been renting well at work.  Not only that, but I knew Ed Norton was a good actor, and Robin Williams has had a string of good movies lately (including 'One Hour Photo' and 'Insomnia'), so I thought I'd give it a chance.  And now, after watching it, I've decided it's gotta be added to my movie collection.Once more, I'm convinced that Ed Norton is one of the greatest actors in Hollywood today.  He just shines  throughout the whole film.Though not as consistent as other films I've seen lately, 'Death to Smoochy' is still a blast.  And somehow, as dark as the humor is in here, there's still a lot of laughs to be had.  Williams, DeVito, Norton, and Jon Stewart - how couldn't it be good?!Not to mention, Smoochy is a far more likeable kid's character than a certain other purple creature in business today...How do you like that?Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"This film was robbed!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was robbed by most of the national critics which once again tells us; don't skip an interesting movie based on a bad review in your local paper.  The critics missed the point on this one which is a real shame. It was a flop at the box office and even director Devito on the DVD commentary refers to the aftermath of the film's release as the mourning period.What the critics failed to see is that this is one of the finest black comedies to come along in years.  It is dark, snide, satirical, unrelenting, and hysterically funny.  Devito's brand of physical direction is absolutely dead on. The film is filled with unbelievable energy and panache and he gets superb performances from a very talented cast. Williams in particular delivers a scathing, in your face performance. And Harvey Fierstein as a charity fraud crook is a stitch!The kiddie songs are hilarious; the list characters from dancing midgets to the Irish mafia are straight out of a Tim Burton nightmare; the ice skating sequence accompanied by opera arias is inspired, knee slapping lunacy! The screenplay is deliciously twisted and crude.  Yes, the movie assaults you with lots of foul language, but the nastiness is part of the dark hilarity of the proceedings.What's even more impressive is that director Devito never wavers.  This movie has an utterly consistent tone. It is devasting in its relentless, unflinching satire of sweet kiddie shows. I'll say it again.  This movie was robbed by the local and national know nothing critics.If you love comedy especially a satire with no mercy; don't miss this one! Go rent it on DVD or VHS! "},{"Title":"hysterically funny","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Social satire that never loses its gift for comedy.  Funny, goofy, I laughed so hard nearly lost it.  Ed Norton shows a whole new side.  Danny DeVite uses his talented cast of actors in ways we've never seen them before, bringing out he best in each of them.  Sit back, relax and be prepared to laugh. "},{"Title":"A very likable movie","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I went to see this movie on my 14th birthday I felt like it was gonna be just another movie that I could say I watched because my friends hadent turned 14 and I did so i can Brag about it. But this movie was really good I liked the special cookies scene it was hillarious. There was really nothing that I didn't like about this movie the crude humor didn't bother me Edward Norton's stupid kid songs didn't bother The retarded boxer guy didn't bug me Great performances by Robin Wlliams and Edward Norton. 10/10 "},{"Title":"a satire that looks at the children's television.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie was hysterical. personally i am not a fan of robin williams as a comedian but he was brilliant in this movie. this movie shows how versatile edward norton is as an actor. edward norton is excellent and it is a shame that this movie did not do better at the box office. in my opinion this movie is a 10 and it is definitely worth buying on dvd. this is the funniest movie that i have seen made in 2002 and as far as i am concerned it is already a classic.  "},{"Title":"Die smoochy please die","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had just finished watching Death to Smoochy and I came here to see what other people thought of this movie.  How can these people say that this movie was anything other than a complete mess.  Too many plot line,too much bad acting by wonderful actors and just too few laughs.  What a great idea for a movie but what a terrible movie. I gave it a 2 because there are worst, but not many.   "}{"Title":"Incredible, colossal, marvelous , stupendous ! ...and it was good, too.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Smoochy is one of the greatest characters I've seen on screen in ages. His modern day hippie ways (from his obsession with nutrition, health, veganism, etc. to his love of children and real desire to make them happy) are right at home in a screen play so chock-full of vulgarity and twisted humor that I fell off my theater seat laughing with tears rolling down my cheeks. Perfection! "},{"Title":"Robin Williams is amazing...","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There comes a rare time when a movie can bring you to tears out of complete and utter laugther.  Deathy to Smoochy managed to do this on so many occasions that at times it was hard for me to believe.  Edward Norton is amazing as the ever so cuddly pink rhino.  I have always been a fan of his work, especially in American History X and The Score, but he impressed me with his ability to switch characters and genres so easily, but Robin Williams steals the show. After you have seen this movie, you'll never see Robin Williams the same. Even while watching Insomnia all I could was Rainbow Randolph and that's a bad thing.  Regardless, the man is a genius and can make a hell of a batch of cookies.  This is definitely a must see with a group of friends and if you're a little inebriated, I'm sure you'll be surprised as to how much better it is.  So take my advice, go get the DVD or VHS or anything because the money and the time is well worth it. "},{"Title":"intelligent and funny","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, for those of you who didn't like Death To Smoochy, I'm willing to bet that many of you simply didn't get it.  I've seen many reviews of comedies from people who just don't have a sense of humor.  Not all comedies are made funny by a series of one-liners.  Some of the best comedies are made funny by the irony of the situations.  In short, if you liked Beetlejuice, I'd highly recommend Death To Smoochy.  It's one of the best dark comedies I've ever seen, and I'm a big fan of dark comedies.  I nearly fell out of my seat once it was revealed that all major charities have ties to the mafia.  My rebuttal to those people who go on and on and on about how it was pointless and incomprehensible, I simply say I laughed.  I laughed hard, and nonstop.  And if you've included in your review I can't understand how so many people liked it, then the problem is most likely on your side of things.(P.S. If you didn't like Beetlejuice, then just stick to your Carrot Top movies and leave the rest of us alone.) "},{"Title":"I laughed my butt off","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being a fan of black comedies, I found this film incredibly amusing!  I saw this movie with my brother, and both of us laughed their entire time we were watching it.  Edward Norton gave an incredible performance, as usual. Robin Williams was a hysterical villain in this movie.  Michael Rispoli gave a great performance as Spinner, who was by far and away the funniest character in the movie.  There were good performances by the supporting cast.  And Danny Devito did a great job directing.  All in all, this was a great movie, that I will definitely pick up on DVD when it comes out.  10 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"For Adults of All Ages","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death To Smoochy is a black comedy wrapped in fuzzy pink velour.  It's a funny and twisted look at children's television, giving an NC-17-rated side to a G-rated world.  Edward Norton plays Smoochy, a squeaky-clean, politically correct man in a rhino costume who sings kid-friendly songs about drug addiction and abusive stepfathers.  He finds himself wrapped up in the dark side of children's television, tangling with merchandising-happy TV execs, corrupt charity workers, Irish thugs and kiddie show hosts who prove to be grown-ups after all, and learns just how well a disguise sincerity can be.  Robin Williams is well cast as Rainbow Randolph, the corrupt clown Smoochy replaces, playing sweet and scary to the hilt.  No doubt this story took some inspiration from the Pee-Wee Herman scandal!  There are a lot of scenes that are funny, disturbing, and absurd.  So watch Death To Smoochy...but not with your kids! "},{"Title":"Smores and campfire songs","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Incredible!  My friend and I were late for the showing we wanted and decided to wait the 2 and a half hours until the next one.  Well worth the wait and more.  Absolutely hilarious.  One of the most intelligent comedies I have seen in a very long time.  It's so over the top with its catchy children's songs with adult themes (Your stepdad's not mean, he's just adjusting), its melodramatic characters and plot that you can't help but be sucked in by it. At first glance, it is very easy to pass this film of as a battle waged between good and evil.  But, just like life, nothing in this film is that cut and dried.  There in lies the fun.  Have fun with it and don't forget to sing along. "},{"Title":"Goofy, Sappy... Damn Fun","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the most fun I have had at a film in some time.  Goofy, sappy, and deadly serious all balanced like a wonderful meal.  The performances are top notch, which is to be expected from Williams and Norton, but the whole cast was perfect.  The first thing out my best friend's mouth when we left was I am ready to see it again., my wife and I agreed. Few films, or stories in any medium, have thought to attack the subjects this film does and none have achieved the level of thoughtfulness, humor and pure enjoyment.  The morals of this story are simple and clear, not that they don't show the complexity of life and every situation, but it makes clear that there are basic ideals that most folks agree with and try to live by and that no matter how dark and/or difficult things may seem, if you let things like the Golden Rule influence your thinking process, things will work out for the best in the end. Oh yeah, if Barney, the Tella Tubies, or the Beatles (All You Need is Love) bug you this film's thrashing of them as well as elevating them will make you feel better.  Few folks can combine Dark humor with Lite humor and serious issues in a way that make you not only pay attention, but love the ride no matter where it takes you. The music in this film stand out as much as the subject and the fact that Norton wrote some of the tunes and made you like them while in a big fuchsia rhino suit, well you decide. "},{"Title":"Hits all the marks, Williams and Norton are brilliant","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a big surprise for me.  The small details and quirky lines made the movie flow with laughter and cringes.  Cringing from laughing at what shouldn't be funny... a dark comedy, perfectly written and executed by a wonderful cast.  Norton plays the health freak, soy brained person that annoys us all frighteningly well and Williams is just as good as ever. What makes Robin Williams' role even more wonderful is that, for once, he's not a goody goody.  We see him flip out, hear him curse, and act quite violent. However, being the versatile actor that he is, he pulls it off with grace and persuading accuracy to what we would expect.  I recommend the movie to everyone!! "},{"Title":"Funny as Hell!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the funniest movies I have seen in ages. Almost everyone in the Theater was laughing their asses off (it wasn't just me!). I read the critics reviews and it made me wonder Do they laugh at anything at all?  I believe that most of the Critic's that are out there must be a bunch of old fart's that can't take a joke. Maybe they were expecting to see a Barney type movie but the movie title and the TV commercial's all show that there is completely different!As always I never believe what Critic's say,  I just go see it. 99% of the time I am not disappointed.  "},{"Title":"edward norton is a fabulous actor and is very underrated, great movie","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i loved this movie. although it isn't the best one ive ever seen, edward norton and robin williams are some of the best actors in movies today and are hilarious!!!! this movie completely surprised me, danny devito is amazing toogo see this movie, youll laugh your ass off!!! "}{"Title":"Krusty the Klown On The Simpsons Is Funnier","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'd rather call this movie Death to About 2 Hours.In short  if you want to see Smoochy die or be abused, don't bother seeing this movie.  If you want to see an obnoxious tree-hugging guy who looks down upon others for their vices get everything in the world handed to him on a silver platter, go see this movie.  Yes, everyone, the pseudo-Barney comes out on top without one hair harmed.  The title is misleading; VERY misleading.  I feel ripped off.  The only reason I went to this film was to see Robin Williams go off and maim Smoochy in various ways.  IT DOESN'T HAPPEN.The ending to this movie made me want to puke, or at least see someone's brain splattered all over the wall.Granted, there were a few extremely amusing scenes, but they didn't equal the price of admission.Wait for it on video, so you can fast forward the sap.  Trust me, there is a ton of it.  If I want to see the seedy underworld of children's programming, I'll watch the Simpsons.  It makes a funnier parody with Krusty the Klown. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like the off-the-wall movies as much as the next guy, but this may be the worst flick I have ever seen. Robin Williams falls down a flight of stairs and hits a brick wall. Robin Williams dances in the streets and hits a brick wall. The ex-boxer utters the phrase I'll be back after I take a dump. Boy, I'm laughing to death.Avoid it like the plague. "},{"Title":"Funny, but misunderstood.","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Danny DeVito and Adam Resnick's farce about children's television has been widely misunderstood from what I gather.  This, I assume, is due in part to the advertising.  This is not a film about Robin Williams' character trying to kill Edward Norton's character, it is about the rise and fall and then re-rising of Smoochy.Don't be misled, it is a very funny movie.  Many of the songs with ranging topics (Stepfathers, Smack, ect...) are hilarious.  Danny DeVito's energetic directing rockets the film of with a lot of humorous moments (love those rocket cookie's) that are at times a bit morbid and dark, that's when your supposed to remember, it's a satire of children's television, it's supposed to be that way.In all, don't be fooled by television previews or reviews of the movie, see it for yourself and prepare to laugh.  (Note There is a degree of intelligence to the comedy so fans of American Pie and Varsity Blues, STAY AWAY, YOU WILL NOT UNDERSTAND THIS MOVIE.) "},{"Title":"Robin Williams does Raw","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  everyone was good in this flick.  Robin Williams was pure raw, much like he was in his earlier comedy days.  Ed Norton was obnoxiously annoying but funny at times.if you don't like a little colorful language, then you won't like this movie.  i thought it was a very funny. "},{"Title":"Wow did the critics miss this one!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am always amazed when just about all the film critics miss a really good film and for some reason just don't get it.  They did it with The Specialist, Time Machine, Body Heat and now again with this gem. The only people who might have laughed harder at this film were the rest of the audience.  This movie is funny, period. It is NOT all the things that might have made it a bad movie; NOT self indulgent, a clich, a Robin Williams ad-lib festival. I can only hope that word of mouth brings people in the door. I would bet the ranch that if no more, this film will be a darling on cable.  "},{"Title":"dismal attempt at satire","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's a scene about halfway through `Death to Smoochy' in which Robin Williams and Ed Norton are cruising in a car through the streets of New York City.  Judging by the fullness of the foliage and the ways in which the people are dressed, we can ascertain that the scene was shot sometime in the spring or summer.  Yet, by the time the car has arrived at its destination, the setting is engulfed in a full-on blizzard, appropriately enough since the film does indeed take place in wintertime Manhattan.This seemingly minor technical discrepancy is actually emblematic of the carelessness and cluelessness that have gone into the making of this black comedy misfire, written by Adam Resnik and directed by Danny De Vito.  Pity the two unlucky stars who are stuck playing rival kiddie show hosts who find themselves involved in a battle from which only one can emerge victorious.  Williams portrays Rainbow Randolph Smiley, on camera, a beaming, saccharine purveyor of upbeat lessons in morality and life, off camera, a foulmouthed, amoral moneygrubber who gets busted for taking payola from some undercover agents posing as parents desperate to get their child a coveted spot on Smiley's TV show.  Norton plays Smoochy, a down-on-his-luck, wannabe star whose moral mtier is the exact opposite of Smiley's.  He is decent, kind and honest to a fault, a man who balks at all the corporate exploitation of children done in the name of entertainment and profit.  When Smoochy is hired to be Smiley's replacement, the mentally unbalanced has-been launches a diabolical crusade to undercut the rising star's ascent to the top and to regain his own lost position of prominence in the hearts and minds of his adoring fans and the corporate execs and sponsors who happen to pay the bills.It's sort of hard to know what exactly those involved with this enterprise really thought they were doing.  The corrupt world of so-called `children's entertainment'- where more money is spent trying to get the tykes and their parents to buy tie-in products than in trying to instill strong moral values into the intended audience - is certainly rife for some clear-eyed deconstruction.  `Death to Smoochy,' however, fails at every level &#150; the prime problem being that there is not a single laugh to be found anywhere in the movie.  Any attempt to bring pop-eyed gangsters, hired hit men and Nazi storm troopers into a satire about a kiddie show in crisis had better know what it is doing from the outset.  `Death to Smoochy' never gets a sure footing.  Smiley and Smoochy are too broadly drawn to be very interesting or effective as characters and the humor generally consists of people cussing at one another while an innocent, angelic Smoochy looks on in finger-wagging disapproval.  The low point of the movie occurs when a deranged Smiley waves a giant cookie made in the shape of a penis right in the faces of a group of astonished children while he enumerates each and every one of the terms commonly associated with that object.  This seems to be a new low even for Hollywood, which obviously no longer acknowledges the existence of any line separating what is appropriate for adults from what is appropriate for children.Typical for a mainstream film that presumes to dabble in the area of `dark' comedy, `Death to Smoochy' turns all soft, cuddly and righteous at the end.  Yet, what a film of this sort needs is a hard edge, a willingness to go all the way into the realm of iconoclastic satire and not want the audience to pat it on the back as it leaves the theatre.   De Vito made such a film a dozen or so years back.  It was called `The War of the Roses.'  That film had the courage of its convictions and still boasts one of the bravest and darkest endings ever to adorn a mainstream American movie. `Death to Smoochy' is, ultimately, as treacly and bland as the target it is trying to attack.      "},{"Title":"Get me SMOOCHY!!!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  DEATH TO SMOOCHY the latest dark comedy from the dark and demented mind of Danny Devito who directed War of the Roses, has the perfect amount of everything. I have no complaints about this movie. All I can do is rave about how much I loved it. Dark, but not to dark like the unfunny disturbing VERY BAD THINGS, the jokes and humor were new and not something we had seen before. Awesome character development and the actors played off each other BRILLIANTLY. Robin WIlliams was deliciously psychotic, Edward Norton was pitch perfectly overly sweet, and Catherine Keener was the perfect whatever drunk mentor. Overall, this (and I am a major critic) is one of my top tens. It was different and bold and completely original. The cinematography was cool, and the coloring was bright which sometimes made it look like a comic book at times. Smart and funny dialogue + brilliant acting + original story = Death To Smoochy. 10/10 ROCKED! I LOVED IT!!!! "},{"Title":"Painful, odd and witty.","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  No wonder critics hate Death to Smoochy. It is different, it breaks all the rules there are to break, yet, it manages to keep the viewer tight in his seat, entertained. DeVito's direction is inventive. Anyone would have thought that Norton (who plays the nicest person on earth) should have played Williams character (the angry,junkie, lunatic clown) and vice-versa. Yet, they both play excellent roles and their characters create a synergy rarely seen. The film is full of black humor, disgusting commentaries, and odd characters that make it a surreal experience. It is a film that may well become  a cult movie. A must see.   "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to smoochy was an excellent film. It started out a little slow, but soon picked up, and was all comedic afterwards. the irish mob and spinner were great. Devito is the man, and norton and williams give hysterical performances. Definitely a dark comedy. i'm rainbow randolph! "},{"Title":"Barney meets Pulp Fiction.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked it a lot. I mean some of the characters could've been a little more dimensional and it lagged a little during a few scenes but I really enjoyed it. Robin Williams cracked me up and Ed Norton was great as Mopes. It was definitely unique. Go see it and make your own decision. "}{"Title":"Life to Smoochy","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved Resnick's script so I was anxious to check this out.  First of all the movie is good. After the mixed reviews, I was a little cautious about the film but after seeing it I chalk it up to personal taste and the general cynicism or reviewers.  I think that audiences will prove that movie is more than worth the ticket price. While I enjoyed the film and everyone around me was laughing their fannies off, I couldn't help but feel that if Devito stuck more to the original script it would have been much better.  I am a Devito fan but felt that his vision was a bit unclear but as I said had I not read the original script I wouldn't have that criticism.  My bottom line is that if you enjoy a good comedy then you can't go wrong with Smoochy. Just my $0.02. "},{"Title":"Death to Smoochy","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One word Ingenius.Good movie, but weird movie. Basically, the underworld of kiddie shows. Very good, very original, but very strange. Not exactly a thinking movie, nor a thriller, just different. All actors and actresses do well, but Robin Williams is definitely beyond his prime. Ed Norton has to play what has got to be the weirdest roll after Fight Club, but still good.It's not all it's hyped up to be, of the few I went with they thought is was good, but had a different idea from the previews. One thought it was gonna be darker. I thought it was gonna be more cheesy and based on Robin William's insanity based on that one commercial. It ends on a high note, showing the kiddie show side of it. Good movie, bring your laughter with you, but keep an open mind.  "},{"Title":"I thought Adam Resnick could do no wrong...THEN i saw this","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What's a dark comedy when there's no comedy to be found? Death to Smoochy holds the answer to that question. In this dreary, depressing mess of a movie thats totally devoid of any laughter of any kind, Robin Wialliams stars as 'Rainbow' Randolph Smiley a kid's show host who is fired after taking bribes. After Smoochy is hired to replace him, simply because he's totally clean, Rainbow Randolph hatches a plot to off the do-gooder, who himself is less enthusiastic by the day because of the less than idyllic people that he's now working for. When I found out that Adam Resnick, one of the true geniuses behind the Larry Sanders Show, Get A Life, and YES the criminally under-rated Cabin Boy, was also responsible for this tedious drivel, I was aghast. Sure I understand how Danny Devito could foul it up, the man has been on extreme decline for countless year. But Resnick I'm upset at you.My grade D- DVD Extras Commentary by director Danny DeVito and director of photography Anastas Michos; Behind-the-Scenes featurette; 10 Extended & Deleted Scenes; Bloopers & Outtakes; multi angle Ice show sequence; 3 Theatrical Trailers; Photo Galleries; Cast & Crew Filmographies Easter Egg Highlight the chalk outline in the second extras menu for a scene of ad-libbing "},{"Title":"I was surprised, it is as bad as many critics say it is.","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" My neighbor Ron found the DVD of Death to Smoochy at our public library and, while he didn't give it a great endorsement, he indicated that it was worth a look. After seeing it, die-hard fans of DeVito, Williams, and/or Norton probably find it acceptable entertainment. However, I believe most viewers will find it mostly a waste of their time. All the actors gave good performances, but I found the story to be totally uninteresting. I suppose it was the mixing of a kids' theme, with a sinister plot and pervasive use of cursing, that just didn't seem to fit. DeVito is known for his unconventional movies. War of the Roses and Mathilda both worked for me, this one doesn't. I didn't care about any of the characters.SPOILERS. Robin Williams is 'Rainbow' Randolph Smiley who hosts a kids show. Early on we see him being caught in a sting operation, where he is taking a briefcase of cash from police posing as parents who want their child to be assured of a front line dancing spot. The angry TV execs need to salvage their image, send producer Nora (Cathy Keener) to hire Sheldon Mopes, straight arrow health nut (Edward Norton) and kid entertainer, to become Smoochy the Rhino. His show is very successful, Randolph is furious and jealous, but it is Mopes' agent, the slimy Burke Bennett (DeVito) who is trying to get Smoochy killed. In a finale on ice, a beautiful kids' show, a shooter is aiming at Smoochy but the plot is foiled, the shooter falls from above to his death on ice, and Burke is exposed as the crook. In a tender turn, Nora and Smoochy fall for each other. "},{"Title":"laugh out loud funny!!!","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" this is one of the funniest movies i have seen!!! although to begin with i wasn't interested because of the whole children's television aspect, i was patient with this movie because of Edward Norton who once again delivered a superb performance of a sweet and innocent, save the world type character. Robin William's also delivers an excellent performance and is so funny he had me laughing so loud, i need to see it again for sure!!! there are loads of funny bits where Randolf , Robin William's character, has just lost the plot. One memorable moment for me is when Randalf spills coffee on himself!!!! hilarious!!! And worth a watch. "},{"Title":"I didn't get..","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Edward Norton, lets start with that. But i didn't get the 'black comedy'side of this movie. I found it pretty annoying from the start, though the acting wasn't bad at all. Danny DeVito was actualy very good, so was Robin Williams, both casted perfect for their role. But the movie never became really funny, and wasn't 'black enough' to be convincing.For me it was like the makers could't make a choice between straight comedy or some kind of a thriller or action movie. Edward Norton wasn't very convincing too, maybe because his character was annoying all the time, he wasn't funny, he wasn't the good guy, he was just a stupid guy who's only talent seemed to be playing a rhino...I don't know, i didn't like the movie, but is sure wasn't a bad movie.... "},{"Title":"Dark comedy about show business rivalries.","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, this is not a Robin Williams film.  The central character is Smoochy, the rival who's taken over Robin's time slot at the network.  Edward Norton plays Smoochy, and comedy is definitely not his thing.  Robin is relegated to playing a crazed ex-kids show host who tries to get his job back by sabotaging Smoochy.This movie is flat out lame.  It isn't funny and there is too much sexual innuendo and violence to make it suitable for children.  The only laughs are in the outtakes that run after the credits.  Robin Williams plays half the movie with an unexplained black eye, apparently the result of a stunt gone wrong, and he looks stupid along with not being funny.  Danny DeVito directs and plays Smoochy's agent who tries to doublecross him, and he isn't funny either.I have no idea who the target audience was for this mess - maybe the junkies in the opening scene being serenaded by Smoochy.  This just might be the worst big budget film ever made.   "},{"Title":"Solid laughs save an occasionally faltering plot","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first half of this movie is really perfect, a solid ten.  But somewhere around the Irish boxer, it starts to get a little hard to follow.  Even so, there is still a lot to find funny.  The characters also remain solid with the contributions of great cast.  Robin Williams delivers a great and tempered performance as the seething, corrupt and dethroned kiddie show host out to undo his replacement.  Edward Norton is also hilarious as the New Age squeaky clean replacement.  Danny DeVito helps hold the whole thing together as actor and director. "},{"Title":"A Good Dark Comedy?","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have a challenge for all of the people who are calling Death to Smoochy a great dark comedy Go watch Danny DeVito's masterpiece The War of the Roses. Then watch Stanley Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove. Then watch Alexander Payne's Election. Then watch Tarantino's Pulp Fiction. Then come back and post with a straight face that Death to Smoochy is a great dark comedy.This film fails as a dark comedy, as a comedy, as an exercise in filmmaking. A great group of acting talent is wasted by a non-sensical script, aimless direction, and an overall lack of coherency. It could have been something great, but instead it is a huge misfire from a director who is known for making good, sometimes great, movies. "},{"Title":"Loud, Obnoxious, and Not Funny","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is like a laundry list of everything that can go wrong with a comedy. It is rife with unfunny situations, stultifying attempts at sincerity, overbearing and obnoxious performances, and ridiculous characters. Worse, it is stocked with actors who routinely do not fit their characters, causing the manufactured sense of this product to waft skyward like the polyurethane stench of a shallow kiddie pool.While it is certainly possible that the world of kids entertainers is fertile ground for a comedy, this movie just isn't it. For some reason the screenwriter thinks that it is comedy gold to present a situation in which there are a bunch of kids waiting expectantly for something, and then an adult says something naughty. This gag is used numerous times throughout the film, and it is never creative or funny. Most of the other scenes consist of Norton spouting some New Age nonsense that isn't funny because it's meant to be funny, not sincere; or Robin Williams acting manic. Unfortunately after about 20 years of being manic Robin Williams, the routine's a little stale.There is another adult-oriented movie about childrens' entertainers called Shakes the Clown that succeeds where this one fails precisely because that movie has the decency to wallow in its own crassness. Robin Williams appears in both movies; given the general lack of quality of his comedy as his years have progressed, it should not be surprising that Shakes is his better performance. Makes one wonder about the wisdom of giving up cocaine. I mean, I'm glad for his health that he's off the pipe, but he used to be funny. Remember Mork?Smoochie never finds its tone, and thus fails as entertainment. I cannot think of a single film that has successfully blended adult situations, juvenile humor, feigned sincerity about the welfare of children, and violence. Possibly because there is no worthwhile story that would require such a recipe. In attempting to appeal to every demographic, every focus group, Smoochie succeds admirably in being a thoroughly mediocre and forgettable film in all respects.Of the movie's many shortcomings, I must admit one in particular bothers me. Henry Rollins should have gotten the role as Spinner. I don't say this because I believe Rollins is a particularly good actor; the point is that the role required someone who was believable as a psychotic, punch-drunk retired boxer. Rollins has the energy and focus to deliver such a character. The guy they got just doesn't. He fails to take over his scenes, which is what a manic character is supposed to do - how can you be manic and be secondary in your scenes? Rollins tells a great story about how he lost this role by being too enthusiastic about it - that story is much funnier than anything in this fiasco.Through the entire running time of this movie I encountered two jokes that made me chuckle the stepfather song and a one-liner by a thug about the differences between law enforcement and mob violence. The rest is unbearable. Don't suffer my fate. Rent Shakes the Clown instead. "}{"Title":"45 wasted minutes of my life","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  among those unique films where one must eject the disc part way through. if you can read, write and work a fork..........this probably is not for you. this was so juvenile, so horribly written, that i could not make it past the 45 minute mark. "},{"Title":"Seemed like a good idea from the ads, but the execution has too many flaws to reccomend","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Danny DeVito and Adam Resnicks' Death to Smoochy goes really far into the region of dark satire and dark comedy and such until you almost can't stomach it.  I admired the audacity of the script to go into the region of Barney land (I'm not entirely sure if you can call these people clowns, there more like Barney caricatures) and to attack aspects of it, and there are some moments where I found myself laughing when I should've been offended.  And while the actors do what they can, the story itself goes too cooky to be easily comprehended and after a while the movie might get tiresome, overly stupid and possibly too obscene for it's own good (I haven't seen Williams curse this much, or even more so, since his stand up days).  Memorable song My stepdad isn't mean, he's just adjusting.  However, not a memorable movie for the cast and crew.  B- or C+ "},{"Title":"Did I Miss Something?","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Was there something I missed?  I saw this film at a half filled theater.  People were laughing left and right and I could not for the life of me figure out why.  The idea was a pretty good one but just did not seem to fall in place.  *possible spoiler* There is a scence at the end where Rainbow Randolph (Robin Williams) and Sheldon Mopes (Ed Norton) are sitting across from one another at a table.  Sheldon has a gun and loads 1 bullet in the chamber.  All I could think of was the scence with Robert Deniro and Christopher Walkin in Deer Hunter where they are forced to play russian roulette.  I was calling for russian roulette between Randolph and Smootchy.  I pictured in my head the two in their kiddie costumes playing russian roulette in Vietnam.  That made me laugh. At any rate, cool story, just not very developed.    "},{"Title":"One of My favorites","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay I normally don't voice my opinion on movies, but Death to Smoochy is fantastic! Every actor in the movie pulls off their parts great, and Robin Williams is probably the most hilarious I've ever seen him. Ed Norton is just jokes as Smoochy. I'm in awe that this has a 6/10, its definitely a cult film and perhaps requires some taste for darker humor. But, given the movies premise being the story of a phsycopathic game show host I honestly don't know what anyone was expecting...I give it a 10 of 10 because the film is enjoyable and I've re-watched it plenty of times without it getting old and still being fun and entertaining. "},{"Title":"A movie that could've been so much better...","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to Smoochy is a movie filled with 4 very talented actors, yet despite this never really comes close to any sort of interesting conflicts or letting any of these actors shine. The result is a picture with a lot of potential great actors, good concept but a weak and very unfocused script. Edward Norton is his usual brilliant self, playing yet another I've never seen him like this character. The die has yet to fall as to whom is the better actor he or Johnny Depp. On the other hand, its easy to see why and Robin Williams is in this movie, playing a very familiar character (a lifelike Genie), but he never comes close to anything VERY funny. Danny Devito - didn't have a memorable role at all, and its his direction was very flawed. Has he made any good movie lately? I miss him. The best character in the film is Keener's. Her sexiest role as of yet.I hope to see her keep on getting good roles like this. She shines alongside Norton.Mati Gill  "},{"Title":"Don't wate your time","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is about nothing, offers nothing and wastes much time.  I have no idea how to tell you how boring, wasteful and uninteresting this movie is. There is no suspense, character identity, drama or realism of any kind. Okay, maybe I could suspend the fact that a child's program will have hysterical popularity with adults.  But for real, who would care about a child's program about old men singing bizarre songs? Nobody. And that's just the beginning of how dumb this movie is.  If you think children's TV programs are a really serious issue in today's society then go and have fun. Otherwise, you will tear you hair out at how dumb this movie is. "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To begin with, I went into seeing this movie with a profound respect for Danny DeVito and Robin Williams.  I wanted very much to like this movie.However, I left that respect on the floor of the theatre when I left. This movie ranks among the worst movies I've ever seen.Its a dark comedy that only succeeds in being dark and making a mockery of the actors that are being punished for taking part.  The performances are wooden, the characters have no depth and inspire no sympathy.  The action is disjointed and unrealistic.  The movie is an exercise in taking your money and making you hate the theatre that sold you the ticket.Visually, the movie is nothing but dark.  The sets are generally pedestrian and the lighting and cinematography are mediocre.  There is nothing in the movie that sets it visually above UHF television.Comedically, I wonder if they edited out all the punchlines in the theatre I saw it in, because the audience members barely registered a chuckle during the entire run of the movie.Dark comedies are hit-or-miss to begin with, inspiring either love or hatred with very little middle ground.  The problem is that the vast majority of people who see this movie will not be inclined to come here and rate it. Only those that truly loved it or hated it will be vociferous enough to make their feelings known.Can I give the movie a -1? "},{"Title":"I wanted to die","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie sucks! I payed $1 and that was WAY too much.This is valuable time I'll never get back. Save yourself the torture.  If you want to see a bad movie rent Xanadu and stay home. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but still hillarious","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Danny DeVitos' career has taken a dive over  the last decade or so, but Death to Smoochy  rekindles some of the flair he has lost. While  the film is far from perfect, the satirical take on  our present society clearly demonstrates the  hoard mentality of capitalistic America.This also creates a standard for over-the-top  comedies, a film which somehow makes a  mockery of the kids programming industry.  Certainly not perfect, but the ice capades scene  near the end is clearly one of the funniest  moments in movie history. "},{"Title":"Has its Moments,but Could have Been So Much Better,","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death to Smoochy is a very mediocre movie with a promising storyline that simply wasn't done as well as it could have,and a terrific cast that sadly weren't enough to save this.The premise seemed very clever and unique,and having Danny Devito directing,Edward Norton as the protagonist and Robin Williams as the antagonist seemed like such a sure fire hit,but it was just disappointing on so many levels.It went on much longer than it needed to,being almost two hours,it definitely should have been quicker and also more light hearted,it was very dark at times and simply took itself too seriously in several scenes,which I found unnecessary for this type of movie.The ending scene was without a doubt the highlight for me,it was very well filmed and looked absolutely beautiful,Williams and Nortons dancing was stellar,and it almost convinced me that I enjoyed the entire movie,which I found a little annoying because I was feeling a bit reluctant to give this movie a five because of how much I loved that scene,it certainly warmed my heart and if the rest of the movie was more like that scene,I'd be giving this a better review.Has some funny moments and an inspired cast,but Death to Smoochy dosen't deliver the fun and laughs that were necessary for me to recommend it,and I think you would be better off avoiding it. A corrupt TV clown who was been sacked for taking bribes,swears vengeance on his replacement.Best Performance Robin Williams Worst Performance Pam Ferris "}{"Title":"R.I.P Smoochy","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The higher the budget, the weaker the comedy. That's a general rule in film. So while director Danny DeVito's Death To Smoochy boasts a good cast (Edward Norton, Catherine Keener, Jon Stewart) and a reasonably interesting script (one children's TV mascot attempts to kill another), piles and piles of money nevertheless constantly undermines DeVito's satirical intentions. The film is too busy, too gaudy, too sprawling, and much of its humour gets swamped by sheer excess.Still, it's always interesting when an actor sits in the director's chair. Actors see the world differently, shoot differently, try different things, and so scattered about Death To Smoochy are a number of odd compositions, interesting camera movements and some cool architectural choices, like metal furnished diners, low lit bars and neon lit streets. The film is torture, but there are some neat flourishes scattered about.1/10 &#x96; Like his idol, Robert De Niro, Edward Norton can't do comedy. Worth no viewings. "},{"Title":"Maybe not death to smoochy, just a little stab?","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Deatb To Smoochy is the story of the meteoric rise to fame of lovable kid's character Smoochy (played By Shedlon Mopes, who is really Edward Norton). Smoochy gets his break when Rainbow Randolph (Robin Williams) is busted taking bribes for kids to appear on his show. Overnight Randolph becomes a disgrace and the network ,headed by Nora (Catherine Keener), sets out to find the next TV star. Smoochy becomes an overnight hit, and consequently everyone now wants a piece of him. Randolph wants to kill him, slimy agent Burke Bennett (Danny Devito) wants to get in on the action, powerful people want to get on his show, charities want money.....things needless to say get out of control. Sheldon, a man of integrity and values has to work out if he'll go along for the ride or, as Marcia Hines would suggest, stay true to himself. Will he sell out? See it to find out.Different, not that great in my view, but at least it was interesting. A pretty strong cast, which was good as the film probably needed it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, Vulgar Black Comedy.","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" After being fired, an Sleazy Ex-Host (Oscar-WinnerRobin Williams) of a popular T.V. kids show tries to plot a revenge against His Barney-Like replacement (Edward Norton). This replacement, who is ultra sincere and he doesn't know that his bosses or the people he trusts are corrupted business people are trying to exploiting him.Directed by Danny De Vito (Matilda, Throw Mamma Out of Train, War of the Roses) made an amusing dark comedy that is not for everyone's taste because of the adult subject matter. Williams is fun in his often crude role. Norton is surprisingly amusing as the mild-mannered folksinger. This was one of the biggest box office disappointments of 2002 but it did better on DVD and Cable Television. Do not miss this often darkly hilarious film. De Vito appears in a supporting role. VHS Version has Outtakes and Deleted Scenes. Written by Adam Resnick (Lucky Numbers). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Hilarious - I was breathless with laughter","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can see why Death to Smoochy is an acquired taste, but it's one of my favourites. I wasn't even aware of it until a friend told me about it earlier this year (2005) and I was amazed to find out it was only 3 years old - I don't remember any publicity surrounding it at the time, and it deserved it. If you're wondering whether Death to Smoochy for you, it is funny in the same silly style as the more recent Anchorman and Dodgeball. And if you enjoy seeing big stars in different role, then watching Edward Norton as Smoochy will have you in stitches, especially if you compare it to his latest serious roles. Altogether a great feel-good, light-hearted movie - but only if you have the daft, whimsical sense of humour needed to get the joke. "},{"Title":"Very funny film but wasted on many. Williams & Norton superb","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found Death to Smoochy very funny although I don't think the film will appeal to everyone, especially those who are not fans of Robin Williams. Both the performances of Williams and Norton were great. Williams character was very over the top and many of his jokes, whether written or improvised will wash over many people. There is certainly much to be gained from repeated viewings of the film, if you did indeed enjoy it the first time round. Norton's performance was excellent as ever, capable of acting in both serious and comedy roles. Danny Devito's direction is great if a little unusual. This however only adds to the film. The unusual camera angles and scene fades are very nicely composed and only add to the cooky nature of the film.The film is definately worth checking out.....and you may even be pleasantly surprised.... "},{"Title":"Overlooked Classic too much for USA","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Friends come in ALL sizes!*** Spoiler(s) Alert *** I think one of the major reasons this film didn't become popular is because its cynical view of the  Entertainment industry was too radical (left of centre) for those in control of the media (e.g. conglomerates that own TV stations, newspapers, magazines, etc.) who may have found the dark satire (which by the way doesn't have to be of realistic events) a little too close to the truth. I thought Robin Williams had one of his best roles ever as a redeemable maniac Kiddie-Host, and has Edward Norton ever not acted well? (He can even write his own songs.) Supporting characters/actors were also on form, even the man who has to direct at the same time (DeVito). I liked the contrasting characters (especially Spinner Dunn the loveable punch drunk boxer related to the Irish Mob), and the exploration of themes of corruption, revenge and  ethics. Give Williams a role like this and he'll always make it his own, making up his own jokes and adlibbing where necessary. I liked the DVD extras including the trailers (except the theatrical one), and had to watch the opening Rainbow Randolph scene dancing scene a few extra times. So think about it a bit more before you jump on the bandwagon with the people that sent it straight to video. I could have seen more flaws in production and/or plot wise if I'd wanted to but why not just enjoy a chance to see good actors with a quality script. How often do you see a children's  show host stop an ex-children's show host from killing a rhino with skates on? Remember it's not free "},{"Title":"Truly Delightful","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pay no attention to the heathens who disliked Death to Smoochy, it is charming, dark, and absurdly funny.  Will this movie change the world?  No.  Was it intended to?  No.  It is a refreshingly original comedy that is entertaining and multi-faceted.  The all-star cast (Williams, Norton, Keener, Devito) seem to be having the time of their lives.  Personally, I could not stop smiling throughout it all, it was a truly delightful movie experience.  Don't listen to the people that hated it, they obviously don't know a fun movie when they see one. "},{"Title":"How else would a black comedy about children's tv work?","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are going to see Death to Smoochy because you want a laugh-out-loud good time, stop right here. This film isn't like that. DtS takes a wry look at children's television from behind the scenes and finds a very nasty centre to all that fairy floss.*Some spoilers below*In DtS, you will see corruption, stand over tactics, a murder and some icecapades. There is overly cynical marketing to children, a dash of sex and some Nazis. Hardly kiddy material, is it?Although the underlying story is about Rainbow Randolph's overwhelming hatred of Smoochy for taking his place (Die you muppet from Hell! in one memorable scene) it is really about a group of people vying for control of a television show and its influence over children. Although it can be argued that ethics wins in the end of DtS, it shows children's television to be a very dirty place where money is the number one concern. This world sees people willing to kill a children's entertainer because he won't toe the line for a children's charity. How much blacker can you get?DtS can be a bit slow at times, with not all the jokes put at the end of sentences along with a pause so you know when to laugh. That's fine in my book - this clever film is a great showcase for Robin Williams and Edward Norton to show a little more depth in their acting outside of stereotype. Danny DeVito didn't disappoint me with this film. A pity that it went straight to video in most cases, although trying to sell a black comedy about children's television was never going to work. DtS is sure to become a cult classic. "},{"Title":"WHY wasn't this a box office smash?","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  a superb premise, a superb cast, and a superb set! all these and a magic script make for a brilliant movie i really cant understand how it didnt do brilliant at the box office Do people have no sense of humour? the actors really get into the script when needed and danny devito is again proving himself as a great director as well as actor, the story is twisted and blacker than i could've imagined. i had to have the film imported on DVD so that i could watch it as it is set to never get a deserved UK release and i'm VERY glad i did, i am a huge fan of robin williams and a keen follower of Norton and both put in a fine performance. but nothing in the film can compare to how wonderful and delightful the story is! even if everything else in this movie was absolute tosh (which it is far from being) then it would still be worth seeing for the plot, nothing in movie history will ever be as wicked and wonderful as this. i love it, GO see it 9/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious Movie! Very enjoyable!","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death to Smoochy where to begin! I'll start with the fact that I loved this movie! Edward Norton fans will be howling with laughter! Norton gives a stunning performance as Sheldon a happy go lucky person who loves to entertain! Then Nora from Kidnet finds Sheldon and offers him his own kids show The Smoochy Show! Graciously accepting Sheldon embarks on a journey which involves Robin Williams as Rainbow Randolph the former kid show host who was fired do to illegal activity. Full of anger Randy decides he is going to kill Smoochy! This movie is full of laughs and fun to watch! It is a very different type of role for Ed Norton compared to Fight Club and 25th Hour. I fell in love with this movie and hope you will too! so get off your butt and go rent Death to Smoochy! "}{"Title":"PAGING CAPT. KANGAROO","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  DEATH TO SMOOCHY (2002) **1/2 Robin Williams, Edward Norton, Catherine Keener, Danny De Vito, Jon Stewart, Pam Ferris, Michael Rispoli,  Danny Woodburn, Harvey Feinstein, Vincent Schiavelli.  Pitch black comedy about the kiddie show business cutthroat competition between scandal plagued Williams (in maniacal glee form to full tilt effect) and pure-as-milk Norton (eerily channeling Woody Harrelson's vocal characteristics!) as the folk-singing titular fuchsia rhino who has unwittingly ousted him as an overnight success.  The evil machinations of show business are a bit too sharp for such lightweight fare yet the talented ensemble is clearly game thanks largely to the razor sharp screenplay by Adam Resnick and De Vito's rambunctious direction. "},{"Title":"Vile And Unfunny","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There's very little to recommend in this vile, terribly unfunny comedy. Robin Williams is at his worst as Rainbow Randolph Smiley, a children's TV host bent on revenge after being replaced by the naive Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton). Mopes quickly becomes the new king of the castle as his Smoochy the Rhino character proves as lovable and adorable as the name would suggest. The concept - exposing the dark side of children's television - has enough potential, but nothing in the movie works. It's as though director Danny DeVito felt the mere idea of friction in this innocent world was hilarious enough that it didn't need to be expanded upon. The result is a completely boring and disgraceful product that wastes the considerable talent involved. "},{"Title":"PAINFULLY BAD..","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ouch.  This movie was bad. VERY bad.  How could such great talents of Edward Norton and Robin Williams be wasted in such a terrible movie? I can't believe that Robin Williams could pull off his best performance (ONE HOUR PHOTO) and very well his worst performance in one year I was so bored with this movie that I wanted to leave the theater.  I hope Danny Devito learned from this movie and he'll make a better movie next time.  If you read my comments, you'll find that I like most every movie I go to, but this one, forget about it. Its Terrible. Please, don't waste your money on it, just forget about it. Go see some of the better films of '02- The Two Towers, One Hour Photo, Road to Perdition, Catch Me If You Can, Spirited Away, etc.The Worst Film of 2002-Sorry Robin "},{"Title":"Pink rhino, white elephant","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death to Smoochy tells of the rise to stardom of an obscure and highly principled kid's entertainer, Smoochy the pink rhino (Norton). A bloated, talent-ladened, over wrought colossal dud, ..Smoochy does everything right and then lays an egg. Not unlike the Hindenberg, ....Smoochy goes down in flames failing to work in any genre and on any level. Target audiences might include WWF fans and adults who get up on Sunday morning to veg to cartoons. (D+) "},{"Title":"Death to Smoochy Showcases Great Talent","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Edward Norton is a great actor. Yes, he was in Fight Club with Brad Pitt, but it was his acting that really stole the show. This film is no different. Robin Williams, as usual, does a great job. DeVito, who also directed this eomp (I use that word VERY sparingly), plays a prominent role in this film. No, he may not take up a lot of screen time, but his presence, his panache is known. It is important to remember that DeVito directed this caper. He also had his hands in Matilda, and produced a film that revitalized both John Travolta and Bruce Willis's career Pulp Fiction. He produced, directed and wrote a bunch of other things, but those will always stay in my mind. "},{"Title":"Face in the Crowd meets Network meets Manchurian Candidate meets Barney!","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In other words, this is all over the place. Did it want to be satire or a social commentary? I never understood the role of Green's charity how/why it had so much power, why it had the hire-ups at KidNet shaking in their boots, and why Burke advises Sheldon to play ball with them.I understood why Randolph tries to destroy Sheldon, but the ways he goes about doing it had me scratching my head. And, no discussion about the rocket ship cookie?! Come on!Randolph's foul mouth also bothered me. Yes, he's not the squeaky-clean guy he plays on TV, I get it. But the foul language was overkill.DeVito is still trying to find way to distinguish himself from his fellow What-I-Really-Want-To-Do-Is-Direct actors. Aside from a couple of cool shots and set-ups, however, he is as generic as most.What was unforgivable is how he hogties Robin Williams. What Williams does in the out takes part of the DVD is flat-out crazy, yet in total keeping with the character. ANY director would've dropped to his knees and thanked God for this Not-From-This-Universe moment. Instead, DeVito re-shot it, and made Williams stick to the script! Ironically, what Williams did is far superior to what DeVito puts in the film! "},{"Title":"Would have been cute if it weren't for all the gratuitous filth!!!!","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't enjoy this funny parts of this movie for all of the unnecessary language. In fact, if there was one dirty word to throw into a line, they'd find a worse one and add to it. It's a shame. I couldn't enjoy the good parts of the film for the potty-mouths. What was the point? "},{"Title":"Horrible Smoochy deserves a swift death indeed","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The art of comedy is slowly becoming an endangered species, if the year 2002 is any indication. Viewers wanting a good laugh instead have had to suffer through the likes of the mediocre Showtime to outright junk like All About the Benjamins, Sorority Boys, and Big Trouble.Death to Smoochy, directed by Danny DeVito (who also co-stars), definitely falls into the latter category. A black comedy about a kiddie show mascot who is marked for death is a concept that looked promising on paper. Too bad that it stinks so badly on the big screen. Labeling this a comedy is truly a misnomer, because it has as much humor as DeVito has height.Rainbow Randolph (Robin Williams) is a kiddie-show host who is swiftly fired after taking a bribe. His replacement is Sheldon Mopes (Edward Norton), who spends his days playing guitar to a group of listless addicts in a Coney Island drug rehabilitation clinic. Nora Wells (Catherine Keener), television producer for the cable channel KidNet, offers Randolph's time slot to Mopes, and he immediately jumps at the opportunity. Hence the creation of Smoochy, a big purple rhinoceros (and obvious ripoff of Barney) whose new show immediately shoots to the top of the ratings. Needless to say, Randolph is much displeased about this and, as the title suggests, he'll use any means in his power to get his job back, even if he has to resort to murder.As a result of Adam Resnick's awful script and DeVito's inmates-running-the-asylum directing style, this film is so flat and lifeless that it's in dire need of a defibrillator. It's as bad as Benjamins when it comes to forcing unfunny humor down our throats. Are we really expected to laugh at dialogue like I'll be back after I take a dump?Nothing about Smoochy is humorous at all, unless you enjoy watching a troupe of distinguished actors continuously make asses of themselves. The script focuses too much on overwrought and underwhelming physical comedy, and as a result there is absolutely zero character development. We don't know anything about these guys, except for the fact that Mopes wants to save the drug clinic after it's suddenly shut down. There is not one individual worth rooting for in this mishmash, not even the do-gooder Mopes with his endless health-nut propaganda. While not busy being harassed by Randolph, he and Nora regularly butt heads over creative differences.Meanwhile, Williams' role as Randolph is right up there with past disasters like Jack, Bicentennial Man and Fathers' Day. If he's not busy cussing up a storm, he's busy getting thrown headfirst into walls and down flights of stairs, and ends up with barely a bruise or scratch each time. At one point when a gang of charity-organization heavies (featuring Harvey Fierstein as leader Merv Green) roughs Randolph up, including bodyslamming him to the hardwood floor of his apartment and clobbering him in numerous and sundry ways, Randolph shrugs it off and is back on his feet in a matter of seconds. Even those who can suspend disbelief at the drop of a hat will find this ridiculous. He has a chance to redeem himself in the upcoming Al Pacino film Insomnia. At this point, he can go nowhere but up.When the characters aren't arguing or exchanging banal dialogue, every other scene is of Randolph throwing a temper tantrum in one way or another. Most of the time, these outbursts do nothing to advance the microscopic plot. For no reason, he assaults a man collecting money to save an endangered species of rhinoceros. Before that, he douses himself with gasoline and threatens to touch himself with a lit match. Try to guess what happens next.If the truly asinine supporting characters of a mentally-challenged ex-boxer and a junkie hitman are supposed to have us rolling in the aisles, then I must already be an old codger at twenty-six.Smoochy is so desperate for laughs that it stoops to unscrupulous lows. The eponymous purple rhino makes an appearance at a Nazi rally, complete with huge swastika banners and the familiar hand salute. (Mopes gets in this situation after being set up by Randolph, but of course nobody believes him.) Randolph barges onto the set of Smoochy's show and unleashes a dozen euphemisms of the male genitalia in an attempt to humiliate him on national television. The usage of sexual metaphors worked to hilarious effect in Mrs. Doubtfire, but it miserably crashes and burns here. While he talks, he waves an anatomically correct cookie &#150; the subject of his verbal barrage &#150; at a group of small children. One can only imagine their parents having a collective heart attack as this scene was being filmed. The climax, which takes place at an ice show (complete with concession stands selling soy dogs, organic smoothies and salt-free pretzels), is so anticlimactic and predictable that there's no feeling of satisfaction; during the sappy end credits sequence, you're instead wondering about plot holes left open at the end.It's revealed in the credits that Smoochy's ice skating scenes were choreographed and performed by Elvis Stojko. Good Lord, he goes from being an Olympian to this?Much more dirt could be dug up regarding this abomination, but it's simply not worth the effort. To make a long story short, watch Ice Age instead if you really want to enjoy a movie about imaginary talking animals. I had previously said that Resident Evil was the worst film of the new millennium. Well, now it has a companion. One's company and two's definitely a crowd. 1/10  "},{"Title":"Impressively miscast incoherence","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Impressive movie - for piling up stupid story, stupid casting, stupid clichs and stupid costumes, all then delivered by first-rate and good actors. Quite incredible.Why didn't Edward Norton play the villain and Robin Williams the supposedly adorable rhino Smoochy, rather than Williams as villain and Norton as cuddly (which he is not)? That's the mystery I watched the movie through for. Fabulously miscast. Norton's a great actor. So is Williams. But for opposite kinds of roles! Someone on the set must have noticed this, so why didn't they switch? Maybe they realized the whole movie was so horribly candy-floss dumb anyway, so rather than make the best of things they went for a mind-blowingly messed-up bad fantasy effect, hoping it might improve something? Looks that way. Seldom have I experienced so little suspension of disbelief through a movie. Rather, my disbelief was constantly activated throughout. To the point that Robin Williams' wild improvisations became islands of believability, in at least his comic talent.Is this a children's movie or for adults? Looks like a children's movie, but dialogue quite adult (at times very) - the mixing is baffling a badly controlled contrast.Directed by Danny DeVito this film must have been a get-together as a favour to him and party for the actors.Hard to believe money was spent making this film - that's what I need to suspend my disbelief about here.1 star out of 10 (rather than unrated) mostly for the daring psychedelic colours (though clashing with the story the way, say, meat dyed green clash with taste), and some of Williams' jokes. "}]