[{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"56 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After watching most of the recent action movies, I left the theatre with a headache brought on by incredibly tight/shaky shots and edits so fast that any hope of seeing anything is lost.  This movie takes a step back from that.  It isn't entirely devoid of those annoyances, but is much better than most.  In fact, at times, you can even see a whole string of punches and blocks without a cut or a shake!  Of course there is the inevitable wire work, that combined with the necessary special effects to allow Jet Li to fight himself.  But for once there is an excuse other than because we can.The story is pretty simple.  A murdering criminal is killing all the copies of himself in all the other universes.  Each time one dies the life force/resonant string thing, gets divided amoungst the survivors.  Of course this leaves a ton of questions that aren't addressed at all in the movie, but I can live with that since those are more topics for debate after having fun at the movie.  That is one of the strengths of the movie, the progressively more intense action.  As the movie progress, rather than trying to deal with any question the viewer might have, the pace and intensity of the movie goes up.  The final action sequence is probably ten minutes long all told, which, to me, is a sign of a true action movie, as opposed to movies with action.Overall I give it a 8/10 for fans of the genre.  If you aren't particularly interested in sci-fi/martial arts, especially if you have a problem with wire work and blue-screens, then you might want to skip it.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  action movie fans, rally!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"60 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Hey! Why'd this film get such a low rating?I hope it's not due to the drama / arty types. I swear they walk into an Arnold Schwartzenegger film and start critiquing the dialogue or the deep cinematic reflections on life. I think they may have formed a false expectation. Action movies don't aim for that stuff, so it's a little unfair to then expect it.Mostly stuff blows up in The One, and I'm totally OK with that, being an action movie buff. What's weird is that you know they're using lots of wires and some of the stunts are a little overdone. But forget the fictional character's skill -- just the skill you'd need as a stuntman or stuntwoman making this movie to perform some of these stunts is truly impressive!Let me warn you that the plot is a pretty stupid, and while billed as a science fiction film it really is not. However, it's nowhere near as bad as sub-intelligent flicks Independence Day and Mission Impossible. It was more like Mission Impossible 2. And lots and lots of stuff blows up.Compared to Jackie Chan, Jet Li's films have more action, but it's stunt-like rather than natural, more of an edge (including blood and gore), less comedy, and he speak better English. I still prefer Jackie. If you're new to martial arts films, ease yourself in with accessible Jackie Chan action/comedies Shanghai Noon or Twin Dragons.Who should see this film-- action movie buffs and borderline action movie typeswho will trade over-violence for under-plotting.And don't drag along your SO.-- sci-fi movie buffs who don't form expectations of real sci-fiand like action flicks-- I can't think of anyone else. I'll give The One an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"nice movie","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"40 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't understand why all the Matrix fans are claiming a special effect as their own and that no other movie can make use of it.The Matrix copied the Chinese movies that used those pulleys to keep the actor in mid air after jumping and doing all those kicks before they land back on the ground. And using those pulleys to fly backwards thru the air after getting hit.I think that once a technique or special effect has been created then everyone's allowed to make use of it.This is a nice movie to watch. Jet Li's English is such an improvement on his past efforts and you can feel the affection in his voice when he talks to/ about his wife. Jackie Chan, as wonderful as he is, still hasn't mastered English to Jet Li's level.The action was great. I'm not looking for realism in a sci-fi movie. I had no expectations. Just watched to see what I'd get - and for the 1.5 hours, I was entertained. It's a simple story, simple concept.I wish people would go to see this movie and not try to compare it to Matrix. Matrix itself is not innocent of borrowing special effects already used in other movies. As for the there can be only one theme, look back to the old days of Astroboy. There was that robot war thing where they had to kill each other so there would be only one winner. Big deal.I will definitely be buying the DVD. But then again, I do have most of Jet Li's movies on DVD -) "},{"Title":"Brilliant idea, but very poorly executed and wasted script potential.","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"53 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I didn't want to write this movie off on the reviews and critics in the western world, I mean how wrong have they been about Asian cinema that has now become a staple diet of the Hollywood remake monster? Plus Jet L is pretty damn cool, and he's made some interesting movies in Asia. So with an open mind I was surprisingly averaged out by this movie.There are good points. The story is very clever, using M-Theory as a base to bring forward the plot that there are multiple universes each with their own versions of worlds, and most likely you. Each time one of you is destroyed the rest share the energy and power amongst them. The idea that someone might try and purposely become the only version of themselves in all the Universes to find out if they become a God.There's also Jet Li, and he's not a bad actor and pretty nimble as a martial artist, plus Jason Statham who is an all round good actor. As for the special effects, some of them are really cool, a mixing of bullet time, and slow motion with normal speed, very cool to watch in places.The bad points? Well Statham's accent is appalling, and some of the effects aren't as comparable as others, so it's quite apparent that money was spent on some of the main shots and not on others that were probably deemed as too short on screen or they just plain ran out of budget.A big sore point for me is the close cropped camera action that Hollywood has long favoured, something that Jackie Chan has often talked about. Filming fight scenes close up serves two purpose. It gives greater emphasis on a single punch or movement, making it look harder and more real than it really is, and it also hides what is going on around the camera lens. For example people holding a fake arm or the face of a stunt double, etc.What Chan always said was that he tried to open out the camera and show the audience what was going on, let them see the people fighting properly rather than a close up of a face and a fist, cutting to someone falling into frame. Showing the whole picture is more effective, and it's more impressive.So the close cropped shots were just more annoying than anything, you failed to see the impressiveness of Li's fighting skills, and you found it hard to see some of the action. Slow the cuts down and pan out the camera Hollywood Directors! The biggest problem was the story though, despite having such a strong base on which to build, they seemed to loose the sense of the plot and concentrate on the action scenes. There are some serious plot building and explanatory moments that are just totally overlooked and covered in the space of a few sentences, yet these could have formed some excellent and complex character development.It just all held together too weakly, and not enough was made of the story. All in all, not a great movie and it's potential was badly spoiled. "},{"Title":"Highlander with Kung Fu and alternate dimensions!","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jet Li and Jet Li star in this goofy sci-fi flick about a power-hungry sociopath Yulaw (Jet Li) who goes dimension-hopping on a killing spree focused on his alternate universe counterparts. As Yulaw finally comes to what I must assume is our universe to kill the last remaining version of himself - Gabriel Law - both his and his counterpart's strength, intelligence and agility have been increased to superhuman levels by the deaths (quickenings?) of previous counterparts. Predictably, the pace is furious and deadly. Many people are caught up in the violence of the ensuing battle, and , of course, since the honest, hard-working and altogether decent Gabe Law appears to be responsible for all of it, he becomes a wanted fugitive. Besides being pursued by this earth's police, both men are also sought by an inter-dimensional police force seeking to imprison Yulaw on a far-off prison planet.Gabe Law is a likable character who works as a prison guard and has a loving wife. The few minutes of character development permitted by the furious pace of this film are what makes it work. And although the plot seems a bit like a pastiche of recent sci-fi clichés, at least the combination of clichés assembled for The One is original.Recommended for sci-fi action and martial arts fans. "},{"Title":"Yin & Yang, Black & White, Evil vs. Good, Jet vs. Jet","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine that there are 123 universes, on each of those universes you have a planet, and on that planet lives a Jet Li. One of those Jet Li's (lets call him Evil Jet) finds out that when he kills one of the others, he becomes stronger, faster, quicker, to put in a wrong perspective, he becomes upgraded - But the skills are equally shared among all the living Jet Li's. With me so far?)So Evil Jet has killed 121 Jet Li's, but has to kill one more Jet (let's call him Good Jet), and by doing so he becomes in a way God, be becomes The One.Sounds nice? Well it is, The One challenges The Matrix in my opinion, especially the opening scene, the first thing that came into my mind was WOW!! Awesome, I want to be able to do that. I've seen a lot of Jet Li movies throughout the time, and this is one of his best (of the US made).If you are a fan of Martial arts, heavy whopping combat scenes, and especially fan of Kung Fu - this is a movie that you have to see. You may get a bit disappointed because it has some of the similar F/X that were used in matrix, only difference is that this is Master Jet, we are talking about. (He'll whop Neo anyway)As you may have figured Evil Jet is trying to kill Good Jet, so with some logical thinking, you can imagine the final combat scene )I hope you like is as much as I did. One of my favorite Master Jet -movies, 10/10 ..  "},{"Title":"Li's Evil Twin and the `Procedure'","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There are two Jet Lis.One is a national hero in China where he has a dozen quite good films to his credit. In that world, even popular actors move props and the simplest gopher criticizes the players until they get it right. In that world, films are an outgrowth of a stylized stage tradition that emphasizes physical acting. In this tradition, Li is probably the chief dancer, perhaps the best there is. In this world, they use him for his physical grace and his way of expressing himself with his body.But he has an evil twin in a parallel universe called Hollywood. In this universe, films are something wholly different, a much gaudier spectacle in which fireworks and noise are the attraction. Actors are primarily marketing elements and are expected to act through dialog. In fact most actors in this world never learn to use their bodies at all. There is some physical motion, but that is arranged by digital magic and stunt standins.This film is a battle between the honest and evil Lis for the one body. What's interesting is watching the good Li try to bring something from the other world. He does try some esoteric, subtle shading in the fighting styles, stances and motions of the two versions of himself. The good Li uses motions from the Hong Kong era that are genuine. The evil Li uses a parody of moves that aren't real at all but copies of what western kids think martial arts looks like. What he does is a big joke, and something to admire and respect, for him to poke fun at his western audience, at least for those of us who pay attention.In Hollywood films, there has to be all this foolery with guns. See `Once Upon a Time in China' to get a feel for the background battle between shooting/blowing-up movies and martial arts films. This sets the stage for the two universes, which he surely feels battling.But the very existence of this movie --- left for us to find after the battle is over -- is indication enough of which Li won. "},{"Title":"Li shows acting ability in sci-fi flick","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The One is a martial-arts flick with strong sci-fi concepts. But the bottom line remains high-kicking action, and Jet Li delivers.Li also shows his acting ability in this film. He displays that he can do more than one personality.As Yulaw, he's a cold-blooded killer who lashes out with sudden fury and insolent superiority. As Gabe, he's a dutiful lawman and devoted husband. (Sin City's Carla Gugino plays his wife.) In the middle are Multiverse cops played by Delroy Lindo (Domino, Romeo Must Die) and Jason Statham (Crank), who lead a super supporting cast.Director James Wong and his co-writer, Glen Morgan, are X-Files veterans who know their sci-fi. Choreographed by Cory Yuen (also of Li's Kiss of the Dragon), the best fight has Li battling himself, with each character using different techniques.The One is one film whose far-out concept works. "},{"Title":"Good Fights, OK Acting, OK Storyline, and cheesy Visuals.","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie definitely worth renting, but not worth buying unless its the Special Edition DVD or its VHS for under 10 bucks. Th fights were sweet,although looked slightly cheesy. it looked like they tried to achieve the matrix type effects but didn't have a good enough budget. The Acting was OK. They stuck some good actors in with some bad ones so that kinda screws up the whole feel for the movie. The storyline is quite simple and somewhat intriguing. There are many universes, you look quite similar in everyone and your all connected by a wave of energy. every time one of you dies, the energy of that you that died goes to the remaining yous. One man has killed all of himself but one. Th movie basically starts here. Yulaw is about to get banished forever but stops his universe travel and goes to the last universe left, ours. Lately Gabe law has been getting stronger but he doesn't know why.Whenever they go from one universe to the next, they break up into little puzzle pieces and they didn't do a very good job for the visuals on those.My rating a 3/5 Stars "},{"Title":"Why wait for the MATRIX 2?","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What do you have when you combine the mind blowing effects of the matrix, with the smooth talent of Martial Arts Master Jet LI?? You have THE ONE!! This movie rocks!! Finally,  this is a movie that has the budget to support jet li's mastery  and skills! Jet li shines, the special effects only compliment what this man can do, to tell you the truth jet li is the only special effect you need to see, but the 75 million dollar budget on effects doesn't hurt  either. Why wait for the matrix 2? It's already Here "}{"Title":"Jet Li  Feet of Fury","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  	A high concept film that offers the possibility of the existence of a number of parallel universes wherein a person actually exists in each as an individual entity, yet is linked to the others by a life force that enables one to draw power and strength from another, `The One,' directed by James Wong, is ultimately a showcase for the martial arts prowess of Jet Li.  Li plays the dual role of Yulaw, a former policeman of the `Multiverse,' who at some point happened onto the fact that if his own counterpart in one universe dies, his strength is increased; and Gabriel, a member of the L.A.P.D., who knows nothing of the existence of Yulaw or the parallel universes until he finds himself suddenly and inexplicably being hunted down by an unknown predator.  Gabriel, it seems, is the last of Yulaw's counterparts; and he has thus far disposed of one hundred, twenty-three others already.  And, if the theory of the Multiverse proves to be true, with Gabriel's demise Yulaw will become a kind of god, invincible and unstoppable.  But there is another theory that states that if such a thing in fact occurs, it will mean the destruction of the universe in which it transpires.  So there is a lot on the line, with only two policemen from the Multiverse, Roedecker (Delroy Lindo) and Funsch (Jason Statham) on Yulaw's trail, hoping to stop him before it's too late.	Wong has crafted a clever and fast-paced, action-packed adventure in which his star, Li, proves more than capable of maintaining the excitement, especially in the scenes in which he squares off with himself (with a nod of thanks to the F/X wizards-at-large).  In this case, more is better, and `two' Li's equals twice the action, which is the name of the game in this movie.  But though the action is plentiful-- and extremely well done and choreographed-- the story, even with it's interesting premise, never seems to be fully realized, or at least not up to it's potential.  And the action is good, but it lacks the nuance and finesse of films like John Woo's `The Killer' or `Hard Boiled,' and also the poetry that worked so well and enhanced the story of Ang Lee's `Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.'  Still, with this film Wong moves very close to finding himself in the company of those great directors.  	Jet Li has made a number of films, and certainly demonstrates here that he has that `star' quality; but though he has the looks and the moves, he does not possess the charismatic screen presence of a Jackie Chan or a Bruce Lee, and as an actor he has some definite room for improvement.  He does put on a good show, however, and when the fight is on, he is riveting to watch, and after all, that was the intent of making this film in the first place.  And in that respect, it certainly succeeds.  	On the acting front, Carla Gugino gives a solid performance as T.K., Gabriel's wife, and though her supporting role is little more than a diversion between the action sequences, she is a welcome presence to the proceedings and makes the most of the screen time she is allotted.  Most importantly, she makes T.K. believable, which adds some needed strength and emotional involvement to the story.	Lindo does a good job, as well, but his character, Roedecker, lacks the development that would've made him a more integral part of the story.  The same can be said of Statham, also, and Funsch seems to be little more than a means by which to move the story along.  Not a bad device, but it adds so much more to a film when the characters involved have some real life of their own in them.	The supporting cast includes Brandon Molale (Stygian Prisoner), Scott L. Schwartz (Prisoner) and Kim McKamy (Doctor).  A film that seems to fly by as fast as Jet Li's feet and fists, `The One' is definitely an exciting experience and makes for some satisfying entertainment.  It's a what-you-see-is-what-you-get kind of a movie, and the chances are pretty good that you're going to get exactly what you expected going in.  For fans of Jet Li and the martial arts, it's going to be an especially thrilling ride; and for everyone else it's going to at least get the adrenaline flowing and the heart pumping a little faster for an hour-and-a-half or so, guaranteed.  It's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 6/10.    	     "},{"Title":"Average sci-fi/actioner with above average plot","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I wanted to dog this movie, but somehow I can't find it in myself to do that.Exhibiting a duality of fighting styles, it's Li vs. Li in a somewhat decent battle for supremacy.This is one of those movies where the story carries the performances. Li's acting is extremely amateurish, hesitant, and stiff for most of this movie...right up to the very end. At first I tricked myself into believing he was just doing that for one of his two characters. You know, to show a difference in personalities. But it appeared to be inexperience or a lack of talent. It did get a bit better, more relaxed, toward the end. But that wasn't enough to save his performance. Jet Li's acting does improve as his career moves forward. I don't hate his acting. I just hated him in this.I also have to say that the effects were very B class effects. What effects there are.The story itself had great potential. It was uniquely creative, daring, and fresh. Unfortunately, either the budget was not ample enough to accommodate better lighting, effects, film quality, and some acting lessons, or the director just did not care enough to bother with these little details. He also did not bother with the SCIENCE in the science-fiction. A fact which was a great detractor to this film.The fight sequences were a bit one sided, as he seemed to give more to one character and little to the other. But all in all the story line made for a very enjoyable attempt.As enjoyable as this was, I couldn't help but think, all the way through, that this was just one of those movies that you can't help but watch it for what it SHOULD'VE been, rather than what it is.It rates a 6.0/10 on the B scale.That's a 4.2/10 (on the A scale) for having a good plot, from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"unbelievable action movie","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a must for any action movies fan, or a Jet Li fan, or a kung fu movies fan! It´s a non stop action from the beginning to the end... Jet Li act so great as the bad guy.. i never realized how good actor he is. The final fight (Li vs. himself) is simply majestic, like old times kung fu movies with the touch of special effects. Forget all the bad rating you saw about this movie, because it´s better than THE MATRIX (if you like REAL action) 10/10!  "},{"Title":"Flawed but One of a Kind Sci-Fi/Action/Thriller.","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There is not one universe but there are many, which is multi-verse. Gabriel Yulaw (Jet Li) manages to kill nearly all his alternate version of himself. He has one left to kill is Gabriel Law, who is a cop. Two Multiverse Agents (Jason Statham and Delroy Lindo) are chasing this man, who wants to kill his last universe alternate man. Yulaw becomes more powerful with each kill, he makes of his alternate universe life. Yulaw & Law must confront each other and fight each other, who becomes the one.Directed by James Wong (Final Desniation 1 & 3) made an entertaining, tongue in cheek, sci-fi action/thriller. Jet Li is amusingly cast in this film. Which it was actually The Rock was originally cast in the film. The film has amazing special effects. Although the film is too heavy handed for some. Most will like the intriguing story. The film was a Box Office Disappointment.Carla Gugino also co-stars in three different roles.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) with an terrific Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an running commentary track by the filmmakers, amusing featurettes and an trailer. The film could have been a little longer or could have been a little more. But the film has enough plot twists to make this film great entertainment. Do not miss this visually impressive thrill ride. Written by the director and Glen Morgan (Willard-2003). Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Twin Jet action.","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In 80s fantasy blockbuster Highlander, Connor MacLeod exclaimed 'There can be only one!' as he lopped off fellow immortals' heads and absorbed their power. In the ground-breaking 1999 sci-fi smash hit The Matrix, Neo was The One, a superhuman being with amazing speed and agility. In The One, a fun martial arts/sci-fi actioner that borrows ideas from both Highlander and The Matrix, Gabriel Yulaw (Jet Li) hopes to become The One by killing off alternate versions of himself in numerous parallel universes, growing increasingly more powerful as a result.While this film might not be quite on a par with either of the titles it so blatantly borrows from, it does provide a whole heap of spectacular effects-packed entertainment, with blistering ballistic battles, amazing kung fu fights, and explosions galore as Yulaw tries to eradicate Gabe Law, the last of his doppelgangers. Extra firepower comes in the form of inter-dimensional agents Harry Roedecker and Evan Funsch (Delroy Lindo and Jason Statham), who do their utmost to apprehend the killer.Director James Wong (Final Destination and Final Destination 3) directs with gusto, employing state of the art CGI (at the time of release) and impressive wire-fu techniques to give his fight scenes maximum impact. The film builds to a hugely enjoyable, well choreographed climax in which Yulaw and Law duke it out in a factory, causing damage on a massive scale. A rocking nu-metal soundtrack also serves to enhance the impressive action. The film also earns bonus points for featuring not one, not two, but three versions of the lovely Carla Gugino. "},{"Title":"Surely one of Jet li's best","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This flick is surely one of Jet li's best movies, even better than Kiss of the Dragon and Romeo must die.The film is a sci fi thriller, which revolve around the idea that there are many worlds in this universe and everyone has a dupe in each world. Each time one dies, his energy gets divided among his clones on the universe.The protagonist's evil side in one world aims at killing all his dupes in the universe so he can gain all their strengths to become the undefeated One, and so comes to earth to find and kill the protagonist, a NYPD cop on earth, who must do all he can to save himself.The storyline is fast paced, with good stunts on Jet Li's part and nothing draggy in the film. Also a lot of Rock and Metal has been used in the background. There is no vulgarity at all. Special effects make the film look very realistic.I recommend. "},{"Title":"Simple plain fun!","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The story is kind of forgettable. It's the premise that sounds promising. A what if ... there was more to it, than we know. Add to all that some amazing action and you have the movie The one with Jet Li.Jet Li who is very good in this movie, as is Jason Statham. The latter also an action regular is just a supporting player here, but that doesn't mean that he can't show what he's made of. Still as you can guess the main attraction lies within Jet Li and his performance ... especially action-wise ... That should be your reason to watch this movie! If you expect some art-house/drama movie, than you're completely wrong here! Go watch something else, because here it's all about the action ... and the action scenes are good, so I can only recommend this title! "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Jet-Li,Non-Stop Sci-Fi Action-Okay  !!","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am a Jet Li fan,and I never miss any of his films.The One is a film I least expected-a martial arts superstar in a sci-fi flick ? But it worked.Jet Li plays both the hero and villain,and the plot is set in the distant future,where it is possible to travel through parallel universes.Each human being lives a different version of himself in everyone of these universes,and the villain's goal is to annihilate all these other existences so that all their energies can flow into him ,turning him into a god,or-The One.This is a sci-fi plot that stretches the limits of one's imagination,but what matters here is how well it is all executed.The special effects are indeed the ' best since The Matrix',and the fight sequences are very well handled.Though it is all CGI,it always has that 'Jet Li' feel to it,and never looks ridiculous .Carla Gugino has a short role as his wife,but she leaves a good impression.Delroy Lindo is the one who gives the story its credibility.His performance is intense and so is Jason Staham's .But in the end ,this is Jet Li's show all the way.Good ! "},{"Title":"This could've been so much better.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched The One, and I must say that I was very disappointed. The trailers looked excellent. Although most of the reviews were bad, I didn't pay attention to them because critics are... critics.I should've listened. The acting is absolutely horrible. The characters have no depth and they are filled with those Look at my power, look at what I can break and smash actions. I couldn't believe how bad it was, because I usually like either Jet Li/martial arts movies. And it gets so frustrating, when the good guys have a chance to kill the bad guy, they either miss/take too long to shoot/just let him run away for another chance to add a meaningless scene to this movie.The dialogue is... just terrible. It's tedious and boring, and you absolutely have NO idea of what's going on unless you listen to every word that they say and pay attention to every little detail. You feel as though the movie is just dragging because of the terrible writing.And another thing, some of the effects and fighting scenes are cool, but mostly you feel, Okay... They've fought enough... When is this gonna end??!? I mean, come on. There was a reason that Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon was good. It was because the characters knew their powers and they didn't show off or abuse them. And, the martial arts scenes were limited, so you didn't feel too overwhelmed.All in all, just skip this one, you're not gonna miss anything. You wanna see a good crime action movie? See Minority Report. Or for a martial arts movie, see Crouching Tiger or a Jackie Chan movie, like Rush Hour. Those movies are much more worthy of your time. "},{"Title":"typical american action stuff","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  even though the plot is one of the stupidest i've witnessed in a while, and the music & fighting scenes are rather lame, 'the one' is still somewhat entertaining movie in some unexplainable way. maybe it's just jet li's charisma. if you have nothing better to do, well, why not, but it's no masterpiece.but, i swear if i see another poor jet li movie i'm opening a petition to get jet back to hong kong to make real movies and kick some bad guy butt. 'the hero' looks quite promising, though, i'm keeping my fingers crossed. "}{"Title":"Finally, an action movie with a plot","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li has been able to come out with some good action movies like Romeo Must Die, and Kiss of the Dragon, but there is no doubt this has been his best movie so far.  I absolutely love the plot for this movie.  It's sci-fi, it's action, and above all it's pretty original.  Jet Li is the best martial artist in the world.  The actual fight scenes in Kiss of the Dragon may have been better, due to the fact little to no CGI's were used, but The One is a much better movie overall.  What makes this movie work even more is the great selection of music.  How can it get better than seeing Jet Li kick the not out of people while Drowning Pool's Let the Bodies Hit the Floor is playing in the background?  Other artists in the movie include Disturbed, and Papa Roach so you can get a pretty good idea of what the fight scenes are like. This isn't a best picture, though I'm surprised it wasn't nominated for effects.  But in an overall enjoyment grade, I'd say this was one of my five favorite movies of 2001.  "},{"Title":"Probably a favor to Jet Li.  Terrible.","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wanna be Matrix-in the martial arts and even in the title.  Weakattempts at high-tech gadgets, and unintelligent plot and characters. The typical action lines where laughable as was Jet's acting skills. I'm guessing it was Jet Li's idea to put him vs. him, the motorcyclescene and the Matrix rip off scenes and he had people attempt to make itinto a m "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There were two main problems with this movie, otherwise I would say it is a good movie.  Firstly, they say there is an infinite number of universes, yet there a finite number of Jet Li's exist.  Then there is a scene at night, which becomes mid-day all of a sudden.Other than that, it's a good movie.  The action, fighting, and special effects are better than most movies I have seen.  The idea behind the plot is clever and intriguing.  The plot itself is decent.  I didn't form a great attachment to the characters except for Gabriel, and interestingly enough, Yulaw.  Delroy Lindo and Mr. Statham are also good.So I'm not saying it's the best movie in the world, but that it's a great, entertaining movie.  A lot of my peers have been bad-mouthing the movie and I can't figure out why.  Plus, because of the premise and special effects alone, I am forever a changed man after having seen it. "},{"Title":"No.1 with a kick!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  -SPOILER- Jet Li is a cop fighting an assasin from an alternate world future. Like a cross between Timecop and Matrix.The action is great.There are 128 alternate dimensions.We get to see Gore  Universe - Albert Gore won! Bush  Universe - Our own sad little world. Procyon Universe - Very High Tech Annubis Universe - Eygyptian influence. ??? Universe - Funny looking cars and clothes, no crime.And my favorite Hades Universe - HELL INC.Jet Li must fight his evil twin from Procyon Universe and send him to Hades Universe!I had a lot of fun watching the movie. "},{"Title":"Jet Li at his best.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An innovative plot and mind-blowing action sequences make The One one of the best action movies I've ever seen.  If you like martial-arts movies or anything with action like The Matrix, be sure not to miss this movie. "},{"Title":"Amazing film","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best films Jet Li ever made as it includes a lot of fighting scenes and very well directed parts. In the film Jet Li plays lots of different characters. The two main characters who jet Li plays are two men. One of the men wants to kill all the other Jet Li's so he can be the one. The other jet Li (the good one) has to stop him without killing him, as these two are the only ones of their type left and if the good one kills the bad one then the good one will become the one. It is a very good well made film and i recommend to anyone that they should either see or buy this film. This film isn't really expensive so you should get out there and buy it. It is really good how they made it so two Jet Li's are fighting at once as it looks like there are both there but really they are not as it is just done for cameras. When buying this film don't hesistate just buy it as it is well worth the money.  "},{"Title":"Jet Li´s best Hollywood movie yet","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yep, that including Cradle 2 the Grave... The fights in this movie are awesome, specially the Li vs Li one. Story-wise, the movie have a few plot-holes, but is a science-fiction movie as well so i thinks that is forgivable. I recommend The One for all the Jet-Li fans and the action movies fans as well. BTW the music rocks! "},{"Title":"This is one hell of a movie!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this and I think this is one of the best movies Jet LI ever starred in because it was exhilarating and fun. I mean picture a normal human being with the powers of his clones after he kills them! Thats sick! But plot wasn't good so I'd give this a ********/10. The best action was at the end.  "},{"Title":"the one is jet li","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I got the one on vcd for my dvd, it is a cracker & the best movie i have ever seen since the matrix, jet is the new dragon and shall never be beaten. So take it from me it's well worth the money and if you like the matrix you'll like the one. "},{"Title":"JET LI DELIVERS A AWESOME PERFOMANCE","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is just awesome and jet li rocks the story is okay but who cares when you watch a movie starring the awesome Jet li only three sentence to comment for this movie the movie rocks.The movie goes like this that there are 123 Jet li in 123 universe and one of the jet has just learned how to become even much stronger by travelling to parallel universe and killing the Jet li. After killing all of the Jet li only one jet li remains but the last jet li has equal power of the bad jet li which is yulaw and then the real things start e,g. JET LI VS JET LI AND some awesome visual effects and lot of sci fi and it is really great to watch the movie and Jet. "}{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this was a great matrix movie.I enjoyed every fighting scene that was in it.Though a lot of you might not like it because there is one part were it can be a little confusing so at the same time you would have to listen to get the point of the story,but you should understand the story already.If you like the Matrix,you would also love this one.i give this movie a 10. "},{"Title":"Jet Li fights himself and we learn that an infinite number of multiverses number 125","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It would be fair to say that this film is a whole meddly of rip-offs. Mainly an obvious cash-in on the desire of super-powered Neo type bullet-dodging-strong-enough-to-punch-through-walls.This is probably the first film to make use - to my knowledge - extensive multiple universe but really it's hardly touched on. We only really see one universe properly - which is pretty much ours. This as such invalidates the only really interesting and novel idea in the film.The rest is just your typical action hero stuff with a few matrix effects thrown in and such. Sure there is punching through steel and fencing with motorcycles but this film never really delivers anything beyond a subpar popcorn film, with the added bonus that it's Jet Li and Jet Li instead of Neo and Trinity.Really unless you're a big fan of Jet Li on Jet Li action, don't bother with this. Even Matrix Reloaded or Matrix Revolutions is preferable. "},{"Title":"Fast-paced film that will satisfy true action fans","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One is one kick ass movie!!  The master himself, Jet Li, makes the film excellent to watch.  The action scenes were executed perfectly, and after every one, I couldn't wait to see the next! My particular favorite is when Jet Li fights himself at the end. Every shot was amazing. Cory Yuen's choreography was sheer brilliance.I don't understand why there are so many negative reviews about this film. Overall, The One will please any action and martial arts fan.(Or anyone wanting to have a great time). Even though the story is light at times, the action/fight scenes, the highlights of this film, will make you anxious to see more. It was even better than that other film it is always compared to, because it has more adrenaline pumping scenes and stars one of the greatest martial artists of all-time, Jet Li.Overall, if you are a fan of Jet Li, the genre, and like a fast-pumping film, then The One is for you. If not, your missing out on a lot of things. A Solid 10.  "},{"Title":"AWESOME!","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One is a great movie. Some may say it is a play on the Matrix but do not believe it. They do have some interesting parallels which make the movie that more enthralling. If you like the Matrix you'll love The One. "},{"Title":"The very ending is worth the price alone!!!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm amazed people have been so critically of this movie.True the fight scenes are not as good as many of his other movies. But they are still superb and naturally better than anything you'll find in the matrix (for all those pro-matrix people). The rock soundtrack is simply brilliant.Jet fighting himself at the end in a shame. Because you don't really get to see Jet fight like he can. And his stunt doubles are no where near his speed and skill.Another plus side is it show cases Jet Li demonstrating two different styles for each character. Gabe Baguazhang and Yulaw Xing Yi Quen.  Another example of the Jet's skill.The act too was as bad as people make it out to be. Also try acting from the heart in English when your Chinese can't be too easy. But he does it superbly.Plus the ending scene with Yulaw alone is worth the price of admission. How long is it! He clearly loved doing that scene! "},{"Title":"Want Entertainment? This is Not the One.","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The One (2001) Dir James Wong / Cast Jet Li, Delroy Lindo, Carla Gugino, Jason Statham, James Morrison About individuality in a film that makes no sense at all. It regards the many versions of Jet Li killing off one another until one dominates. Seeing Li play one role can be difficult. Watching him play 23 is total overkill. We are suppose to believe that there is three universes and three of every individual. Don't ever feed that information to a struggling alcoholic. Anyway, the evil Li wishes to destroy the poorly dubbed versions so that he can rule the world. We know that it will come down to a big playground fist fight. Wow! How exciting! I just hope that the other versions of Li are not lazy or on welfare or the dominating version will look like one big stupid ass. Director James Wong has fun with the action, and the production is great, but Li has way too much screen time. Perhaps playing 23 versions of himself gives him a better shot at the Oscars. Others who wrongly figured this as a good career move are Delroy Lindo, Carla Gugino and Jason Statham. They will hopefully move beyond this and onto better things, like playing checkers or a really great game of charades. There is no reason to see this junk unless one has a sick desire to witness someone kick their face kicked in. If video outlets are looking to junk any one film in their library then this is the one. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"I can't get down with the sickness, but The One is still pretty decent","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The One is Jet Li's stand alone science fiction vehicle. I would not regard this as essential viewing for Jet Li fans or the sci fi crowd. However, The One still is a pretty decent sci fi/ action buttkicker in its own right and brings a lot of fast paced, action packed entertainment. I would say The One has a lot in common with both Time Cop and The Matrix. There is the occasional nod to Highlander as well. In this film, there are parallel universes and Jet Li travels through the multiverse killing off alternate versions of himself and absorbs their energy. Now only two versions of himself remain and good Jet must fight evil Jet, so evil Jet does not upset balance in the universe. I dig the premise of the film, but it is kind of sold short here with a lack of substance. Although the selling point of this movie is action, I would have liked more of a story and character development. The finished product is a pretty average and straight forward action movie with a sci fi backdrop. Although the story is very simple, the fight scenes are not and is one of the finer qualities of the film. Corey Yuen choreographs the intense and very complex fight scenes. To watch Jet fight is an excellent reason to watch the film and in that area, Jet excels and is in a class of his own. Even though this is PG 13 action, the scfi elements make the action interesting and I don't feel if the violence was more impactful that the film would be any better. Jason Statham gives a real good early performance as a multiverse agent(cop) and he probably put more effort into this performance than he does in a lot of his other projects where he is cast as the lead in the future. The soundtrack for The One is a negative aspect for me as I despise the genre of nu metal and watching The One is a constant reminder of one of the many reasons the late90's/early00's really sucked. I'm sure it was an attempt to get the Hot Topic kids to buy movie tickets. If I was deaf I would have enjoyed this more, but even with the horrible and really stupid music of Papa Roach, Disturbed and Drowning Pool The One is still a decent watch. "},{"Title":"interesting idea but many problems","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In an alternate universe, superhuman Gabriel Yulaw (Jet Li) kills his double Lawless who is a prisoner being transferred. MVA agents Harry Roedecker (Delroy Lindo) and Evan Funsch (Jason Statham) manage to capture him. Yulaw has been traveling to other universes to kill 123 of his doubles to gain their powers. He is sentenced by the Multiverse Authority to prison in the Hades Universe. He escapes to our universe where his double Gabe Law is a L.A. sheriff deputy married to T.K. (Carla Gugino). It's his last double and the survivor becomes The One.There are the backbones of an interesting sci-fi idea. It's Highlander in a Multiverse. It has good possibilities but this movie has too many problems. First, I love some of the fights. Putting everybody else in slow-motion is a genius idea that actually fits Jet Li's reputation. However he is not a good actor and this is not a simple acting exercise. He has to be different people and he has to be convincing as opposing Jet Li's. He's not up to the challenge especially back then.There are also annoying things about the story. The fact that they keep trying to capture him rather than kill him is problematic. Later they come up with a questionable reason. If he's that dangerous, these people would do more to neutralize him. At least, wing him or chop off his hands. Evil Jet Li should never be captured until the climax. This multiverse world has too many questions that isn't worked out that well. "},{"Title":"Li does Highlander........Sort of....","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In the first five minutes of this film, we are treated to Basil Exposition explaining the plot if the movie. As soon as he utters the word 'multiverse', you know you can just switch off for ninety minutes and enjoy Li once again choosing a dodgy script to showcase his skills to Hollywood.And he did this in favour of The Matrix Reloaded?Basically Li plays several characters and there is one who goes around all the universes and killing his other self, thus making him stronger. But he also makes the surviving Laws get stronger too, and we are down to one, and you know he's going to be problematic because it's the Li character who is all shy and confused looking.It's not a brilliant film by any means, and as time has passed, the years have not been kind to this movie. Apart from one scene at the beginning when Li is beating up people in slow motion, the effects are blooming awful.My personal favourite is when Law is supposedly running at 50 miles an hour, and in order to depict this, the makers just have Li running as normal, and cars driving at a snail pace.Statham is okay as his sort if sidekick, but he should have laid off the awful accent, which he does now.All in all, it's not a very good film, but its a good idea, and Li is as watchable as always... "},{"Title":"Jet Li vs. Jet Li","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What this movie is, is basically a face-off between the good Jet Li vs. the bad Jet Li in another words, it's like watching Yin and Yang fight. It's a cool movie with a cool enough premise and you throw Jason Statham into the mix and you got a very watchable sci-fi action flick with martial arts. If you like Jet Li and want to see some cool fight scene, with Jason Statham thrown into it that goes in a sci-fi direction your gonna be entertained with this one. I remember watching this movie as a kid in a theater and enjoyed the heck out of it. Sure it does have certain cheesy moments when it comes to today's standards, but it's still a cheesy sci-fi movie that is watchable in even today's standards. Sure, I can see why some may claim this copied a bit from The Matrix, but only slightly and even The Matrix was inspired by Chinese kung-fu movies. This is another kick-ass movie with Jet Li and Jason Statham.7.2/10 "}{"Title":"One for the boys?","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The One is about the 'multiverse.' For anyone not up on modern sci-fi, that's the premise that there are countless different universes, all running parallel to our own. Here we see Jet Li, travelling from one universe to the next, killing the other versions of himself until there is only one left. The One, to be precise.However, he comes up against some resistance in the form of his 'last self' (also played by Jet Li), plus the ever reliable hardman, Jason Statham, as a multiverse FBI agent.The One came out between the Matrix 1 and 2 and many people said, why wait for the Matrix's sequel, just watch The One. I can see where they're coming from. The two films are certainly in the same genre, mixing science-fiction with slow-motion martial arts fight scenes.Personally, I don't think it's as good as the (first) Matrix and it may not have quite the budget of the sequels, but it's definitely worth a look for those sci-fi/martial arts fans.I'm not sure whether women would be The One's target audience, it may be more for the boys to cheer on as hapless extras are punched and kicked in all manner of unrealistic directions to the sound of pumping rock anthems. "},{"Title":"A great balance of action fodder, leave your brain at the door sci fi and b cinema.","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have been a massive fan of The One since I first saw it in 2002 and it is in on my long term list of comfort pop corn cinema especially good for curling up to in bed or on the couch late at night.Sure it has many flaws such as a limited and narrow soundtrack, mostly numetal that isn't uncommon for many action films of the era (Think Triple X or Underworld). The general emotional commitment from the cast is quite minimal apart from Harry Roedecker (Delroy Lindo) and T.K. (Carla Gugino) though their contribution is still a couple levels above basement. I actually see the deadpan emotional involvement in this film as productive as it is seldom needed to carry the film.Jet Li does surprisingly well portraying the dual personalities of Law and Yulaw.The special effects are amazing and work well for the film and apart from the final fight scene I see them as undated even in todays standards.If you love your b film action with plenty of eye candy and acting cast that generally excel in the genre then I thoroughly recommend this film.I recommend seeing The One on Blu Ray to maximise the cgi fest. "},{"Title":"Meh","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sloppy and boring sci-fi action flick starring Jet Li. He plays a criminal charged with warping through the multiverse killing alternate versions of himself and gaining their power. He also plays the final alternate version himself, a good boy cop married to Carla Gugino (gorgeous). Delroy Lindo and Jason Statham play cops pursuing the first Li. There are some decent ideas here, but the filmmakers are more interested in special effects-aided ass kicking and crappy nu-metal music rocking on the soundtrack. I admit I watched this movie solely because I have a very vivid memory of a scene from the preview where Jet Li beats the crud out of a bunch of cops with some motorcycles. That scene lived up to my memory, actually, but, in general, it's junk. "},{"Title":"The Wrong One","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Given the interesting idea behind the story, 'The One' could have been an entertaining flick. However, the contrived script, lack of character development and poor execution are what majorly let it down. Given the many plot turns, the writers could have done loads and easily turned this into better material. In all fairness, they do provide some funny lines. Jet Li is a good actor and his amazing martial arts skills can sometimes make an entire movie worth viewing. Yet, the way the film portrays his skills is very poorly done (close cropped camera limits the magnitude of the fight sequences). There are some good visual effects and some very bad ones. Performance-wise Jet Li does well with the limited characterization. Jason Statham and Delroy Lindo are passable. Carla Gugino is very good and she has great chemistry with Li. Overall, it's a missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"Fairly awful, I'm sure an alternate universe has the Great version of this film.","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The basic premise of The One is actually pretty elaborate and could have been spun out in numerous different ways.Most of them probably would have resulted in better films than this.In short there are apparently numerous parallel universes running simultaneously, in each of these exists another version of you. Each time one of these variants dies that person's essence, vitality, strength and abilities is immediately absorbed into the remaining 'yous'.It turns out that a man named U-Law (Jet Li) has discovered this and has set about destroying all other versions of himself 'Highlander' style until there can be only (the titular) One.There are a grand total of 125 U-Law variations.He has killed 123&#x85; Only Gabe Law (also Jet Li) remains.Now apparently this mustn't be the first time someone came up with this fiendish theory of Law domination, as inter-dimensional travel is strictly policed, and a team of agents has been tailing the ever-stronger U-Law for some time, lead by the duo of Jason Statham and Delroy Lindo.Once it is evident that only one remaining Law stands in between U-Law and his domination they decide to short cut the procedure and head straight to his dimension &#x96; to cut U-Law off at the pass &#x96; so to speak.Gabe Law is actually different in all ways from U-Law, he is in fact not that naughty at all, but a cop, happily married to his loving wife TK. He also is struggling to come to come up with reasons as to why he feels about 61.5 X stronger lately&#x85; Gabe understandably takes the news that he is being hunted by himself from another reality with the proverbial pinch of salt, until U-Law shows up and starts blazing away.Now with the two remaining Law variants having approximately 50% of the strength of 123 guys each, The One has every excuse for indulging in some over the top action sequences, and it has these in spades. Unfortunately it is also lumbered with some bad angst ridden neu-metal (disclosure some of which I liked), wire work galore in the often terrible fight sequences, and some lamentably dated 90s CGI.Delroy Lindo does his best to remain interested and Statham's performance is most notable for an awful US accent (which perhaps explains why in every subsequent film he has essentially played each character as himself), and Jet tries as hard as he can to make it easy to differentiate the two 'Laws' from each other, but it's fair to say he mostly fails because he in real life I am positive that Jet Li is simply a nice guy &#x96; he just doesn't do 'surly' well at all. It is also a huge (and repeated) failing by the US filmmakers to ignore Li's natural abilities and athleticism in favour of obvious wire-work and el-cheapo computer assisted enhancements.Final Rating &#x96; 5.5 / 10. The One should have been so much better, there is a solid film in this premise which probably exists in a parallel universe somewhere, but alas in ours this variant is teen-friendly wannabe tough mindless pap.By the way if you can bear it the best line in the film is actually the last, though it is hilarious in a way that likely differs from the intent of the filmmakers. "},{"Title":"entertaining but forgettable","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This zippy little action pic doesn't do anything exceptional, but it is fast and fun with a number of entertaining fight sequences. And I always like Jet Li. The premise is also pretty cool, although I think any scientist would say that it makes utterly no sense.Not making sense is actually a bit of a theme in this movie. It moves so fast that I really didn't have time to be bothered by much of that, but certainly the holes are easy to spot.For me the most annoying thing was that the authorities were off on the number of victims of the main bad guy, probably by several hundred people, because they ignore all collateral damage. It's just weird that no one making the movie thought that through.All the same, I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Jet Li's Matrix sans a matrix","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Impossible kung fu moves (like jumping dozens of feet in the air from a standing start etc.), black capes, science-meets-fantasy theme. You name it, the Matrix bits are here. At least nobody wore those dumb sunglasses.There's a story threaded throughout about the origins of the super hero and the super villain, and their preoccupation with destroying one another. The whole good/evil mirror images of each other thing. But the story doesn't focus so much on that as use it as an excuse for Jet Li's patented martial arts sequences. There's chases, fights, subordinate characters getting smashed, gun play, and so on. Action rarely slows down, and for a big dumb action/cop/kung fu movie, this one delivers. The bad guy and the good guy each have numerous chances to finish each other off, and never do; the quota of clichés must be met, it seems.Fast food stuff. Enjoyable as you watch, forgotten about an hour later. "},{"Title":"Lawless? Yu Law? Gabe Law?","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is pure entertainment. It's not something to challenge your sensibilities or present a side of a broad social issue, it's just fun. There is a collection of universes, or multi-verse for short, that is policed by an agency called the MVA. Two agents (Delroy Lindo and Jason Statham) apprehend a former MVA agent turned mass murderer named Yu Law (Jet Li) who just dispatched one of the last of his other selves. The very last is a Los Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy named Gabrriel Law, who exists on mainstream Earth. Yu Law believes killing his other selves and allowing their life energies to disperse to him will turn him into a super being or destroy the multi-verse. Gabe Law and Jason Statham's character team up to stop the evil Yu Law.There is solid action with Jet Li's stylized wushu style of martial arts dominating the movie's fight scenes. The special effects are kind of cheesy with a type of grainy CGI used to depict the inter-dimensional teleporting. The guns Jason Statham and Delroy Lindo carry have extra long barrels with a strange blue light attached to it for some reason also which adds to the over all camp feeling of this film. The writers had a sense of humor sense there are some funny moments like the pictures of Jet Li posing in different costumes and wigs to depicts his characters' other selves in a series of pictures.A solid fun movie with decent action. "},{"Title":"Universally challenge!","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Remember when every Jean-Claude Van Damme appeared in a multitude of movies fighting himself? Well, if they had been as entertaining as this outing he may have held onto his career for quite a bit longer. This film has Jet Li taking on . . . Jet Li. And that, with a dollop of decent FX work, is enough to entertain us for it's short runtime.A small announcement during the opening credits tells us that there is not just one universe but loads. A multiverse, in fact. And this is why a baddie Jet Li is bumping off a number of goodie Jet Li's. Every time he transports to another universe and gets rid of another version of himself he then gains extra life-force (strength, speed, smarts). And there is now only one other Jet Li left, a good man who has been wondering why his own strength and smarts has increased. So it is an all-out battle between good and evil. But who will win and what will actually happen if either Jet Li dies, leading to possibilities such as implosions, explosions and ultimate destruction of the multiverse.Directed by James Wong (who, alongside producer Glen Morgan, comes from a fine background that includes The X-Files, Millennium and the Final Destination movies) with a great mix of humour and style, this movie rattles along from one action set-piece to another. Yes, in the days after The Matrix, it is hard to utilise the slo-flo-mo style within fight sequences and have it feel original. But this actually works.Okay, the supporting cast is a very mixed bag. Carla Gugino does okay in a rather thankless role, Delroy Lindo is as good as ever and Jason Statham has the worst New Yoiik-style American accent I have heard in recent years. But, luckily, this film is not about anything other than some kick-ass moments, a decent soundtrack and Jet Li fighting Jet Li. In that respect, it achieves all it sets out to do.See this if you like The Matrix, Double Impact, Romeo Must Die. "},{"Title":"There will be only one....hmmm where have I heard that before?","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Not the best Jet Li movie. But one of the best he made in Hollywood (not so hard, 'cause most movies he made in Hollywood suck).It's fun to see all of my favorite people working together Jet Li, Jason Statham, Glen Morgan, James Wong (I'm a big Space Above and Beyond fan).Not very original story, but the fight scenes are good, so I forgive the copying from other movies. Not as good as Hong Kong wireworks, but still better than any Hollywood action flick. No irritating zoomed in fight scenes and shaking camera's.Nice soundtrack too. "}{"Title":"The One","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had heard about this film quite a bit, mainly because of the leading star, and when I got to watch it, it was quite good, from director James Wong (Final Destination 1 + 3). Basically there is not one universe, there are many, it is multiverse, and in these universes there are different versions of you. Gabriel Yulaw (Jet Li) is a former MVA agent who killed a version of himself in another universe in self defence, and in doing this discovered not only he, but all other versions of himself grow stronger to be equal. He has travelled illegally across the many universes over 2 years killing the other 122 versions of himself, and the last remaining is Gabe Law (also Li). Yulaw's former partner Roedecker (Delroy Lindo) and new MVA agent Funsch (Jason Statham, putting on an odd American accent) are now after Yulaw to make sure he does not kill Law, because no-one is sure if when the last version of yourself is killed, whether you become a God, i.e. The One, or you destroy yourself. Also starring Carla Gugino as T.K. Law/Massie Walsh, James Morrison as LAPD Officer Bobby Aldrich/'A' World Inmate #1, Dylan Bruno as Yates and Richard Steinmetz as D'Antoni. A good film with some good martial arts moments and a good action star. Good! "},{"Title":"Entertaining fast moving Sci-Fi action.","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The One starts in a Universe where it is possible to travel between parallel worlds, several worlds exist each slightly different from the other. In one such parallel world Gabriel Yulaw (Jet Li) is using illegal technology to jump between these parallel worlds where he kills the version of himself, as each version is killed the other's left throughout the rest of the parallel worlds get stronger, faster & smarter. Gabriel thinks that if he kills all of the other versions of himself in every other parallel world he will gain great power, untold power to possibly rule every Universe. The only version of himself left is Gabe Law here on Earth, in a fight to the death fought on our streets either Gabriel or Gabe will become the one...Co-written, co-produced & directed by James Wong I must admit I rather liked this action packed overblown Sci-Fi action flick. The One is like some sort of cross between Sliders (1995 - 2000) & Timecop (1994), it sees some somewhat confusing & often silly idea that there are lots of parallel worlds that are populated by the same people & if one is killed his strength is divided up between the survivors until there is only one left who will be all powerful or something like that. At only just over 80 odd minutes the film moves along like a rocket, if fact there's barely any exposition or character development at all although having said that there's plenty of action, martial arts, explosions & special effects to keep one happy. It certainly worked for me anyway. The story is just an excuse to have two super hard Jet Li's running around fighting each other & causing plenty of destructive mayhem which is no bad thing in itself I suppose. If all your looking for is special effects, fights, shoot-outs & action with a Sci-Fi edge then I don't think you can go wrong with The One but if your looking for something a little deeper then give it a miss.You can tell that The Matrix (1999) was a big influence on The One & it's style of action, there are plenty of slow motion bullets traveling through the air & people dodging them, there are deft defying acts where people are punched in the air & then punched by the same person on the way back down in cool spinning around the action camera move type ways. There's plenty of great martial arts fights, some explosions, some shoot-outs & a couple of car chases to keep things moving. The CGI computer effects are good, probably a little better than average actually.With a supposed budget of about $49,000,000 a fair amount of money was spent on The One, it has good glossy Hollywood production values & is well made. The acting isn't that great, Jet Li just can't act that well & is more of a fighter, Jason Statham as a cop from a parallel world is the only one who stands out.The One is a surprisingly enjoyable Sci-Fi action thriller that moves along so fast & has so much action that you forget about the somewhat weak story & character's. At least it's fun while it lasts. "},{"Title":"A pretty good sci-fi action movie","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yulaw (Jet Li) is a former MultiVerse Authority (MVA) officer who became drunk with power when he realized that when one of his parallel counterparts in alternate universes, their energy is distributed to their counterparts in the parallel universes. Because of this discovery, he has become a mass murderer with super strength and agility. His victims are his parallel counterparts, each living a variation of his life.After being sentenced to life in the Hades Universe for murdering 123 of 124 parallel universe counterparts, he escapes and uses the technology the MVA uses to send prisoners to the Hades Universe to hunt down his surviving parallel counterpart, a Los Angeles County Sheriff named George Law (also played by Li).Now, Law has to clear his name when Yulaw leads Law's friends/co-workers, and wife (Carla Gugino) to believe that the one they know is suffering from injuries sustained in the counterparts' first encounter that caused him to act out of character. He also has to help an agent of the MVA to capture Yulaw before he kills Law with catastrophic circumstances.Parallel universes is a plot device used in science-fiction for as long as I have been a fan of the genre, and before I was born. This movie does a fair attempt at showing us the differences between the different universes. It is obvious that the parallel universes that at least Law is not from out universe because a news broadcast shown on a television that President George W. Bush is unveiling a plan for Universal Health Care. When we first meet Yulaw, he goes after a counterpart who is a prisoner in jail in a parallel universe where Al Gore is the US President. This counterpart, also played by Li, is named Lawless. There really isn't a lot of sci-fi in this movie when Law gets into the picture. Those who go after Yulaw carry a high tech pistol and some unique technology, but that's about it. You also get some really wild special effects.Because of the special effects, this movie has been compared to the much more popular Matrix trilogy. You get a couple of effects in this movie that is a lot like the ones seen in The Matrix movies. One that you will instantly recognize is where Yulaw dodges bullets in slow-motion, just like the characters in The Matrix movies. However, that is really where the comparisons end.The fight scenes are fast paced and choreographed nicely. We get a little green screen effect when Yulaw and Law are fighting where Li's face is placed over the face of a fight double, whose face was painted green for the effect. Speaking of the fight scenes, one way to tell the differences between Law and Yulaw is their martial arts techniques. Li uses a different martial art for each character.When it comes to wardrobes, the MVA agents are the only ones who have unique clothing. Their body armor is pretty futuristic looking, yet look like what we see police wear when the news covers what they do.There are some good performances in this film. Li easily stands out due to being two different, yet similar characters. However, I think Li was a lot better as Yulaw than he was playing Law. Supporting characters are pretty good as well, but aren't really developed.Another thing that wasn't developed well was the relationship between TK (Gugino) and Law. I felt their relationship was more boyfriend-girlfriend than a married couple, which is evident when Law is asked to take off his wedding ring in the hospital when he is preparing for an MRI test. In fact, the entire supporting cast is under developed. I also didn't really like how the majority of the hunt for Yulaw was done by Law and one of the MVA agents (Delroy Lindo) would randomly show up to aid Law to get out of trouble.The soundtrack is pretty good in this movie. Most of the songs are popular rock and heavy metal tunes of the time. But, in a pretty humorous scene where Yulaw is trying to find something to listen to on the radio in the vehicle he stole to get away, there are some classic tunes by Tony Orlando and Dawn and other 1950's -- 1960's songs.I would probably recommend this as a rental if your first few choices are unavailable. Or, if you got some time to waste, check this out on HBO or another premium channel. "},{"Title":"One of the better entries in the Li U.S film series","Date":"17 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Although not a huge fan of Jet Li's U.S career his 4th American film The One is definitely one of the best of them. It's still not amazing, and does not equal say the Swordsman II and Once Upon a Time in China, but it is a valiant effort.Admittedly it does give you a bit of ahead-ache with sound effects constantly blasted at full throttle and set-pieces reliant on FX that the film sometime borders on turning into an artificial chase/fight scene after the next.But the reason The One pulls it off so is that it's based on an great idea, it is NOT Lethal Weapon 4! The One is a sci-fi rather than a beat em up film. It's the kind of film Schwarzenegger or Van Damme might have found themselves involved in, had Li not taken the lead role. (Think Time Cop or Demolition Man.) And though Li's delivery is still on the visiting tourist side, his likable charm and screen presence makes up for it. "},{"Title":"An excellent sci-fi martial arts thriller","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In this film, Yulaw (Jet Li), is travelling through the multiverse, which is essentially 124 simultaneous alternate realities. In this multiverse, each person has counterparts in different realities, and Yulaw is trying to kill all of his own counterparts, so he can become a godlike being known as the One. His final target is the dedicated cop Gabe Law (also Jet Li) of earth, who has also been growing stronger as the lifeforce of the other victims was redistributed into him and Yulaw. Added are the agents Funsch (Jason Statham) and Roedecker (Delroy Lindo) who are out to capture Yulaw before he can get to Gabe.This movie not only has excellent action sequences and special effects. It also has some pretty good acting on the part of Jet Li and the others, and is surprisingly deep for an action film. It does, however, stoop to cheap laughs by having two men talk about pornography in one scene, which is why I'm only giving it 9 stars. It is also far too short-only 87 minutes. An extra half hour could easily have gone to fleshing out T.K.(Carla Gugino), Gabe's wife, who was really well-acted but dies far too early in the film to serve as an excuse for Gabe deciding to hunt Yulaw. Roedecker also dies too early. Overall, though, this is an action-packed and inventive movie and one of the best sci-fi flicks I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"The One and Only!","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Fans of science fiction movies often find themselves disillusioned by B-movies and worthless crap such as Planet of The Apes, often churned out by Hollywood. Occasionally, a movie like Back to The Future trilogy or Matrix comes out that attracts fans again and again to relive the magic and ingenuity of Sci-Fi. The latest offering The One may not prove to be as record breaking as the above-mentioned ones but, at least, it has a clever storyline that would engross viewers from the word go! As the story goes, we do not live in a universe but multiverses and each one of us exists in hundreds on these independent universes. Yulaw (Jet Li) is a killer on a spree who wants to kill all of his other forms so he can become the one. His motive is that each time one of him dies, the deceaseds energy and life force is divided among the survivors and they become faster, stronger. He has killed 123 of his replicas and just one, Gabriel (Jet Li again!) remains before Yulaw can become the most formidable man in the multiverses. The movie is filled with encounters between the two and the battle of survival. Two cops from the most advanced universe Funsch (Jason Statham) and Roedecker (Delroy Lindo) are chasing Yulaw to bring him to justice and explain these incredible facts to Gabriel who he refuses to believe them.There are enough special effects, astonishing theories, and mind-boggling explanations to keep an avid fan busy for 87 minutes. While a sci-fi fan would drool over the movie, the fans of mushy movies are advised to stay away from this flick "},{"Title":"A fun Jet Li flick that blew away my low expectations.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I didn't expect much from this film. Even though I consider myself a Jet Li fan I saw the trailer and assumed that this would be an overblown, low quality waste of money that would be painful to watch. I am usually not one to judge a movie before I see it and it gets me so mad when people do that to movies I recommend. If I do watch a movie that I have reservations about I give it a fair chance and I usually end up liking the movie. This movie was one of those many cases where the phrase you can't judge a book by its cover was proved once again.In the near future man has discovered that there are 125 alternate universes. Man has also discovered how to travel between the universes. This means that there are 125 copies of each individual person. Now there is a balance between all 125 people even though all of them are living different lives. When one is killed the energy of that person is divided among the remaining copies. When a man (Jet Li) discovers this he becomes bent on becoming the last person and he plans to accomplish that by killing all his alternate self's. As he progresses his power grows and soon there is only one more left (also Jet Li). Two agents from other universes (Jason Stratham and Delroy Lindo) and the good Jet Li race against time to prevent this man from becoming the one and the most powerful human ever.One of the main things that I was afraid of was that this movie would rely too heavily on CGI and special effects. The thing that I like about martial arts movies is the knowledge that most of it is real. Unfortunately a good percentage of the CGI is unconvincing and at some parts it looks like something out of a video game. But as the movie progressed I found, much to my delight that there was no shortage of real martial arts and CGI that was passable and even convincing for this movie to pass in those departments. Some of the action scenes are very impressive especially the ones that used minimal or no CGI (go figure). If Jet Li is in a movie it goes without saying that the action will be impressive and this movie enforces that with several thrilling and impressive fights.The acting and dialog are surprisingly good for an action movie. The One's acting wasn't anything academy award worthy but the main characters all give solid performances. This was probably more evident to me because I was expecting below par acting even with Jet Li and was pleasantly surprised to find just the opposite. The lack of noticeable character clichés was a breath of fresh air for me. There also wasn't any dialog that made you whack your forehead. All this is probably due to the somewhat simple plot. There is all this complicated things about dimensions futuristic gadgets but it all boils down to one guy trying to kill another. And it works.The main premise is a paradox and the ending is a little predictable but overall it is an interesting, engaging and entertaining movie.82% "},{"Title":"Way Better Than People Think","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those movies that is way better than most people think. Coming from the great team of Wong and Morgan, and starring not only Jet Li, but a pre-Transporter Jason Statham, Carla Guguino, Delroy Lindo, and a host of other recognizable faces, it rocks from start to finish. The pacing is excellent, the effects are dazzling, and hey, there's even a good storyline. Put the sci-fi aspect aside, it still has all the makings of an excellent straight-up action movie. Any movies that pits someone against themselves is asking for greatness. It skittered out of theaters quickly, but has managed to find a life on DVD and television. They play it all the time up here on Citytv, and I manage to catch it almost every time. Flicks like this and The Faculty or Drop Dead Gorgeous have a life after the theaters that are unprecedented. They get better every time you see them, and will become the cult hits of our time. "},{"Title":"Interesting Idea","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The One was overall a pretty good movie, with lots of interesting ideas, but it had some faults as well. What I liked best about it was the fact that The One was original, as far as the setting goes. The idea that there is a copy of each person in each of the many dimensions was original. Other high points included the special effects, camera angles, and stunts. All of these were brought together in the scene where Jet Li fights a copy of himself. However, there were low points in The One as well. For one, I thought that there was too much action in this movie, which somewhat ruined the plot. For instance, most of the movie was fight scenes, which got old after a while. However, since Jet Li is relatively good at fight scenes, that wasn't much of a problem. Another thing that I disliked about this movie was that it seemed like a stereotypical Jet Li film; all action and little plot. The One was almost exactly like Hero and other Jet Li films specifically because most of it was occasionally mindless action. Also, the dialog of The One wasn't great, and occasionally hard to understand, and I thought that the writing wasn't up to par with the special affects and stunts. However, with a great story, setting and ideas, this movie kept me entertained, which is what a movie is supposed to do. For that, I give it seven stars. If you like action movies with intense and good martial arts sequences, then you'll love this movie. However, if you don't enjoy action sequences, then The One will most likely bore you. To conclude, I say that The One was an original movie that is worth taking some time to see. "},{"Title":"Better than expected.","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Based on the trailer and the title, I expected a cross between The Matrix and Highlander, and thought it would be overly derivative. It turns out it was much better than that, with a bit of Sliders thrown in for parallel universe techno-babble, and much more than the sum of what could have been half-baked ideas. I went into the free preview with very low expectations, and was very pleasantly surprised to find a very enjoyable movie. Because of the previously mentioned parallel universes, all of the primary actors get a shot at multiple characters to play, from street thugs and hardened criminals to police officers and gas station attendants, so everyone gets a chance to strech their acting muscles. This movie is recommended for anyone who likes The Matrix or Jet Li. "}{"Title":"Entertaining Enough Action/ Sci-Fi Film, With Some Wicked Fight Scenes!","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is an entertaining enough Action/Sci-Fi film, with some wicked fight scenes!. The film is entertaining throughout, and all the characters were really cool!, plus the final fight, is fantastic!. The special effects are wonderful, and the plot is very interesting, however it was a bit too short, and the characters could have been more developed, plus it was a bit too predictable at times. However i still enjoyed this film, as the fight scenes are awesome,and the film has awesome performances by all involved!. there is some okay CGI, and the film really has a cool setting, however it does seem at times to be a poor man's version of the Matrix, still it's an enjoyable film, but it could have been better. It's well worth a watch, but it isn't anything spectacular, however it is good entertainment!. The Direction is pretty good. James Wong does a pretty good job here, with lots of stylish shots, great use of blue, slick camera angles, decent shots, and he kept the film at a pretty good pace. Only gore we get is a few gunshot wounds. The Acting is awesome!. Jet Li is Fantastic as always, and gives an awesome performance here, he is great as both the villain and the hero, kicks that ass, is vulnerable, had decent chemistry with Carla Gugino, and was very likable! (Jet rules!). Carla Gugino is beautiful and is excellent here, she is likable, and had decent chemistry with jet, however i wished she had more to do. Jason Statham is fantastic as always, and is such a bad ass, i love this guy!. Delroy Lindo is good in his part i liked him. Overall well worth a watch!. *** Out of 5 "},{"Title":"Two versions of Jet Li in one movie","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li stars in this movie about a former MVA agent, Gabriel Yulaw, who plans to kill every alternate version of himself in the multiverse (in the movie we are told that there 124 universes).  With each version of himself that he kills, Yulaw becomes stronger.  He has killed 122 versions of himself, so he must kill one more in order to be the only one in the multiverse.  The one remaining version that he must eliminate is a police officer (also played by Li).What follows from this are mindless fight scenes and countless opportunities to show off special effects.  Despite that the movie delivers thrills and entertainment, one cannot deny that this is an obvious 'Matrix' rip-off.  One cannot help to see the final fight scene between the two Jet Li characters seems like a rehash of a fight between Neo and Agent Smith.  Not to mention the dodging of bullets and the numerous 'long jumps'.  The whole plot of this movie is incoherent.  However, it doesn't really matter because this is one of those kind of movies that you watch with your brain on auto-pilot. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Average One","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an average film. It looks OK and it moves fast enough to leap over the gaping holes in the derivative narrative but that is about it. It wants to be another 'Matrix' crossed with 'Highlander' but fails to have the impact of either. Jet Li anyway does not need special effects and CGI. Fighting himself in the film is unfortunately a very thin gimmick. Mr Li's 'Kiss of the Dragon' is far better because it is just him taking on the bad guys, in the raw. His tremendous skills don't need any added extras. We don't watch Jet Li films for the explosions or the FX. His acting in English improves all the time which is good to see. The quality of his films vary a lot these days but the man is still more watchable than most actors, east or west.Delroy Lindo is solid as usual. Carla Gugino was pretty good in a slight role. The rest of the cast are bland. The music is the usual noisy mish-mash that make up a contemporary movie score.  "},{"Title":"Viva Jet Li!","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I first heard about this film when it was intended that The Rock would play the main character.  I was a bit disappointed when Jet Li replaced him, but the end result was a brilliant sci-fi actioner.  Jet Li does what he does best martial arts, although he proved in LETHAL WEAPON 4 that he's a great actor too. His performance here as both the megalomaniacal Yulaw and the compassionate Gabe Law is brilliant (he also appears as another counterpart, Lawless, but he only appears briefly).  Good support is also lent by Delroy Lindo, Jason Statham and Carla Gugino.  The film was written by X-FILES writers James Wong and Glen Morgan.  These two were also responsible for the short-lived series SPACE ABOVE AND BEYOND.  The film features appearences from James Morrison, Tucker Smallwood and Steve Rankin, all of whom appeared in that series. That aside, the story of the film is very interesting and the direction from Wong is brilliant.  The idea of parallel universes has been done before, but I think it's cool that here, an elite group is aware of the existence of the other universes and it is possible to travel between them. The only gripe I guess I have with the film is that it's over too quickly.  The ending seemed rather rushed.  Despite this, this movie is a great way to spend an hour and a half.  Although, I have to say that the use of Drowning Pool's 'Bodies' at the start of the film was hardly an original choice. "},{"Title":"this movie sucks","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I used to think Jet li was cool, but that was before he made this plotless pile of garbage, I love the fight scenes where jet li fights himself, they look really real....oh wait no they dont. watch this movie and you'll probobly die from aphixiation. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and impressive.","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  At first glimpse, The One seems to be a Matrix rip-off, with stunning action sequences, bullet time, supernatural stunts, and even the name appears to be pulled from The Matrix.I assure you, however, that this movie is nothing like The Matrix.  In fact, I could almost say that it is, overall, a better movie.  It doesn't try to be too cool, and remains serious instead of cheesy like some action flicks.  I have some spoilers coming.The main thing here is that The One is not just any action flick.  It's a well thought out science fiction, and the idea of a multiverse is simply enthralling.  The subject was approached rationally, maybe even better than Michael Crichton's book Timeline.  There were hardly any contradictions, except for one at the end, but that was hardly noticeable.The One is very interesting, but the ending lacked something.  It was too much of a happy ending, and I just don't think it was possible--or necessary.  Besides, it brought about the idea that there was a universe in which the main character hadn't met his future wife yet... now, how is that possible?  It IS possible, but it would need to be under different circumstances that they met, not the exact same ones.  Just something to think about, and it doesn't really mess up the movie.  I doubt there will ever be a movie or book that follows this idea correctly without any contradictions.All in all, this is a really good movie and I would recommend it to anybody who likes stylized martial arts and science fiction. "},{"Title":"Good Actors Wound Up In A Cheesy Movie","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is overall just a cheesy commercial action film which somehow wound up with good actors like Jet Li and Delroy Lindo in it.  The movie isn't horrible; if you have those digital cable movie channels, then it might be worth watching.  But I think Jet Li probably needed a new mansion or something, and agreed to do this movie so he could afford to buy another one or something.There are some good performances, but I still couldn't get around the overall cheesiness.  They also totally defied the law of gravity and physics, which you can get away with in great scripts like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragin, but not here.  But, it's not that bad. "},{"Title":"It was great.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this (although many of the esteemed movie ciritcs that are registered to this site might disagree). Although some may quickly deem it as a Van Damme rip off, I've never seen him do anything to such a great degree by means of martial arts performance, or even acting performance. I mean, Jet Li's primary language isn't even English and he manages to nail the lines better than Mr. Iv'e made dozens of kung fu movies that no one has seen. If Mr. Davedeo-2 is done with his witty comments and puns, trying to impress and online audience of fellow freaks and wierdos, maybe he could add some positive comments about the deserving action-packed world (and universes) of The One. And by the way, in response to Davideo-2, I think that director John Wong made a classic that its preceeding movies with similar concept could not stand up to. "},{"Title":"Imagine if they had gone with the Rock, wouldn't that have been seriously C**P!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just got this out on DVD. Hugely disappointed, I think Jet Li has an immense amount of talent both in martial arts and in the acting stakes. Unfortunately the latter was wasted here. Remember how he broke into the Hollywood consciousness with his amazing performance in lethal weapon 4? Amazing to think he spoke very little english then. This film however has more holes than swiss cheese, some very suspect special effects, unsatisfying subplots, and ultimately a disappointing ending. Martial arts films don't need to have dodgy plots and scripts (cf. Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, Enter the Dragon and The Seven Samurai). Can you imagine how truely awful this would have been if the Rock had been cast as was originally planned???!!!! "},{"Title":" average sci-fi action movie","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  jet li had great potential to turn this movie into something awesome but instead the action just gets dull. carla gugino was okay in her short appearances throughout the film. delroy lindo was good but even he wasn't in the movie that much either. jason statham gives probably the best performance than anyone else. the fact that carla gugino gets temporarily killed off is unintentionally funny. i would give the one 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"fun-filled ride of a movie!","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Loud rock music, tons of action, the extremely talented Jet Li = AWESOME! I was a bit apprehensive about this one, but finally caught it on TV.  Wow - one of the most unique plots for an action film in a long time!  Give this movie a chance...it may surprise you! "},{"Title":"Jet Li's steady descent into mediocrity","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To the lovers/likers of this film  I'm extremely sorry to put this, but I feel I need to.For the past 3 or 4 years, Jet Li seems to have left the plane of greatness to become a petty mediocrity.  The One proves this.The storyline and ideas are both great.  The storyline being Jet Li playing a character named Yulaw/Lawless/Gabe Law, spanning different dimensions, and one of whom believes that by killing the versions of himself in the other dimensions, he will become more powerful and the ultimate fighter.  It was basically a fantasy of the greatest MA actor of modern days (Jet Li) to fight the greatest MA actor of modern days (Jet Li ^^;).The execution is what kills the movie.  There is literally ONE fight scene with I believe two or three mini-scuffles, which were the biggest draws of the movie, and consisted of watching Jet Li dispatch people in Martix-esque slowdown/speed up.  The one fight scene has Jet Li vs Jet Li using the good old computer to put them in the same screen, giving the impression that there are two Jets.  Because of the fact that Jet had no one to fight off of, the fights end up looking clunky, awkward, and silly.  I even had my girlfriend (a certifiable Jet Li nut) tell me to turn the movie off.  She says it was easily the worst of his movies and I have to agree.The rest of the movie tries to sound philosophical with it's ramblings about time and space, which for the most part fall on deaf ears.  Another movie of Jet's, the Contract Killers, was similar in that there was only one climactic fight at the end, but that scene was so great that it completely annulled the boredom from the rest of the movie.I do NOT suggest seeing this movie for any reason, the only saving grace of it is the fact that they play Disturbed's Down With the Sickness in one scene and Papa Roach's Blood Brothers in the fight scene between Gabe and Yulaw, but that's my personal preference, not everyone is a nu-metal fan. The fight scene is dull (what the hell?  Fight SCENE? In a Kung Fu movie?!), the acting isn't all that great, and the modern feel for a martial arts movie doesn't work.  End comment  Only see this movie if you want a better appreciation of Jet's other works. "},{"Title":"I'm a Li Fan Honest, but the Movie's Only Average","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Once Upon a Time in China, now there is a great kung fu movie, and although it was made a few years before The One, those few years in between aren't enough to slow one down especially an artist of  Li's caliber and worse yet, the movie is made where even the most elderly artist could probably have played out the Yulaw/Law parts. I'm not going to go on long about this because a lot of other people have already made the same points I would have liked to have made, but Li's skills really are wasted here. Sure the fight sequence at the end was cool with plenty of eye candy and special effects but the fighting itself seemed jerky and didn't flow. It all seemed, well, too choreographed, like you could tell it was all practiced over and over until it became a routine battle against an opponent one has faced a hundred times before. And a rebuttal cannot say that Li was facing himself because in the director's commentary they make a point that it was good Li (Law) using a circular based kung fu (similar to circular motion aikido) versus bad Li (Yulaw) using a more linear form (Americanized karate for example). Interesting way of approaching the fighting but not fleshed out enough, what with only a few minutes of real fighting.Like I wrote earlier, watch Once Upon a Time in China and then watch The One and you'll understand why I (and everyone else out there who agrees with me) believe I'm right in saying Hollywood wastes good talent, especially Li's. That's not to say The One was a totally bad movie. The soundtrack is awesome, easily fitting in with the evil moods of Yulaw. The special effects are just as cool (more of the whole two guys fighting at super fast speeds, making everything else seem to slow down would have been cool, especially if using one of Li's Hong Kong caliber fights, especially when the sparks are raining down on both of them).So the movie balances itself. It has so many goods and so many bads. So it's average, just don't expect a lot of fighting. More effects than substance, like The Haunting. "},{"Title":"Not the One","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie totally lost me. I fell asleep on it the first time and was roaming around for junkfood and the telephone at the second attempt. I think Kiss of the Dragon was one his best along with other films he did in his own country. Yes Romeo was his marker but they had him on strings. And he only gave us a brief taste in his debut Lethal Weapon 4. He is so gifted at his craft. He puts Chan to shame.The less technology Hollywood uses on his stunts the more I feel Li can work. He makes whooping ass look good. Its art. He doesn't need help. But this movie sucked.They say this was a guy movie. Maybe so. But not this one.  "},{"Title":"Real","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  all the people who call this a no brainer dont READ, try reading REAL science and you will find that a lot of real scientists think that parallel universes with multiply copies of you are science fact NOT science fiction. That includes Stephen Hawkings who now sits in Newtons chair of science at Oxford University try reading his `Universe in a Nutshell` Page 80, now that will really blow your mind. Once you realise the film is much closer to reality than it seems at first well I give it a 9 at least. "},{"Title":"Solid Fantasy","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There is, of course, plenty that can be said that isn't stunning about this. Some of which you'd care about even knowing what you were getting in to. Mostly, the plot. It's supposed to be thin, you can't really mark it down for that, but it's a little too thin even as just a pretense. The holes can be a little bit hard to justify.Aside from that though, the action is nonstop and a whole lot of fun to watch, and this movie is one of a very few (enough that I'll call it innovative) to make the music (modern stuff, Drowning Pool and Papa Roach both feature) a large part of the action. Normally you only see this in the previews. And of course, that is in the end what this movie is, one big long preview. And I mean that in the best possible way. It's far from too long, and you're not going to get bored. "},{"Title":"Strictly intended for entertainment","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One is all about action, special effects and eyecandy, strictly intended for entertainment. And it works well. The movie is short (87 minutes) and it's probably a good thing since viewers have no time to be bored.  "},{"Title":"Don't set your expectations too high.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Unless you're a diehard Jet Li or martial art fan you can pass this movie. As movies go it's not that great, as a Jet Li movie it's not that great either. The only redeemable feature is Jet Li himself who is fun and exciting to watch no matter the quality of the movie in most cases, though there are notable exceptions. This is the kind of movie that will lure you in to see Jet, but isn't quite the viewing experience to make you want to see it again. An unfortunate trend in his recent western made films.I give it a 4/10. Watch it see Jet just for the sake of seeing him, but don't expect a good plot or really good fights scenes for that matter. If you want those characteristics then go see him in 'Fist of Legend'.  "},{"Title":"fast and hard hittin ...","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ya what can i say about it ... im a true fan of jet li and this movie is just da bomb, i mean he is kicking ass like always ... the effects are blazin and the story ?  hmm not bad at all, hehe ... so whatever you guys think bout that movie i give it a 9 / 10 !  peace, jayef "},{"Title":"Rip Off Movie can be Entertaining","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie rips off several others Highlander, Timecop & 12 Monkeys, The Matrix, Multiplicity, a couple of space and alien movies/series, and is generally a modern Martial Art Kabuki via 'Hollywood'. You could probably come up with more. Of course it contains lots of dead bodies, even if not graphic blood and guts. Lots of action maintains interest. Some funny scenes. Slow motion fight scenes are incorporated with pan-around camera action and what could be described as split-speed photography, which is actually interposed video layers using CGI (computer-generated imagery). It has an unexpected ending, and although I found it clever, I also found it wanting, personally. If you like Jet Li, Science Fiction, Martial Arts, or general make believe, then you'll like this movie. A keen mind may get bored and find real life more interesting, especially after having auditioned the movies mentioned at the top of this review. Remember, if you meet your evil counterpart, try not to dress like him/her so that others can tell you apart for at least a little while. If your counterpart has only a t-shirt like you but you're wearing a shirt over it, don't take the shirt off. That is, unless you wish to make it easy on the wardrobe department and also want to save money with low computer and camera use, and shorter labor and production site hours. Success can come from not spending too much time coming up with new ideas but reuse those that already work, keep costs down, crunch the numbers, and crank the movies out. Enough will like it to make a profit. "}{"Title":"Please, one Jet Li per movie.  (Contains Spoilers)","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (Spoilers below, but the flick's too stupid for it to matter.)Computer technology has greatly aided the filmmaking industry. Twenty years ago, it would have been impossible to create the stunning visual effects seen in Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone, let alone an entirely digital movie such as Monsters, Inc. However the prevalence of any new technology is invariably followed by those who would rely on gimmick alone rather than quality. Such is the case with martial arts master Jet Li's latest offering, The One.The One takes place in the future where inter-dimensional travel has become possible. Each dimension runs parallel to our own and is home to the same people, but under different circumstances, living completely different lives. Voyaging to another universe is for authorized dimensional police only. Li plays a former member of this police force going by the name Lawless. We learn, through clumsily constructed exposition, that he has defected after discovering that every time one of his alternate reality selves dies, the `life energy' from the dead self is distributed among the remaining selves. So Li is on a mission to travel to all of the universes and kill himself in each, becoming increasingly more powerful until he becomes `the one' at which point he imagines he'll be unstoppable.As one might guess, Li also plays our hero, Gabe. Gabe is a cop in a universe that isn't aware that other dimensions exist. He lives a happily oblivious life complete with friends on the force and a beautiful wife, T.K. Lawless travels to this universe followed by two other dimensional law enforcers, Funsch and Roedecker. The two try to stop Lawless from killing Gabe, his last remaining twin, and achieving ultimate power.  Oh, and did we forget to mention that it may also cause all the universes to explode? Maybe. No one in the film seems sure.Immediately, the premise of this film catches the audience's attention. What if there are other worlds out there? Am I as unique as I believe myself to be? What would I be like if one small element of my life were altered? These are all very intriguing questions and writer/director James Wong took care to ensure that none of them were addressed in this film. Indeed, it appears that all opportunities to include thought-provoking content were patently avoided. The fact that this is an action movie, and a martial arts flick on top of that, suggests that one shouldn't expect in-depth social commentary or even a complex plot, but The One continually disappoints it's viewers by raising interesting concepts and then failing to focus on them.For example, it would have been clever to show Lawless assassinating several different versions of himself, each with a different appearance and lifestyle. This could have easily been done in montage or in a sequence of short combat scenes that would have prepared the audience for the main action of the film. Instead we see only one other version of Li aside from his two main characters and a few humorous images displayed on a computer screen that make it appear as though the director simply gave Li a box of wigs and jackets to play with. Furthermore, the characters are quite weak. We are given brief introductions to each of the main players, but these serve only to remind us of some stereotype or character from another film that we can use as a mental placeholder in lieu of actual character development. After all, this is an action movie; we've got to get to the fighting as quickly as possible. As if that weren't enough of a deterrent, characters are unceremoniously and unnecessarily killed just as we have some semblance of an attachment to them. Both Li's wife, portrayed by the usually brilliant Carla Gugino, and Roedecker, played by the equally talented Delroy Lindo, are executed for no other reason than to motivate Li's good guy character and fuel hatred for his bad guy character, as if the audience could tell the difference.Predictably, the movie culminates in a huge action scene where Li fights himself. It should have been impressive, but was instead boring and much too long. The computer wizardry that allowed Jet Li to kick his own ass was actually so flawless that I forgot to be impressed by it. After Gabe finally defeats Lawless, the film tries to trick us unsuccessfully with the old `which one is which' routine, but I doubt any audience member was fooled. Justice prevails as the evildoer is punished by being transported to a prison universe that looks like the set of a cheap music video. Our hero is rewarded by being sent to yet another alternate reality where he isn't a fugitive for his doppelganger's crimes and his wife is still alive. Gabe doesn't seem to mind that his real wife is dead and he's been presented with a cheap substitute. And how does he or the police know what his wife's history is in this world?  He might fall in love with her all over again, only to discover that her favorite actor has changed from Cary Grant to Adam Sandler. Gabe can pretend his soul mate isn't dead, but he better not come crying to the dimension squad when her stand-in turns out to be a lesbian pyromaniac, decoupage lover, or a carnival freak who has undergone complex surgery to make herself a human lizard.  ...Actually, that would be pretty cool. Why wasn't the movie about that?Overall, The One has few redeeming qualities. The action has been done better in The Matrix and Jackie Chan's canon, the plot is riddled with holes, and the two accomplished character actors, Lindo and Gugino, can't compensate for the fact that Li still hasn't gotten the hang of the English language. If the premise of The One is true and alternate realities do exist, I hope to one day travel to a universe where they never made this film. "},{"Title":"roxxor","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie roxxor dude, these movies are, in the first place, made for kung fu lovers! The stunts and special effects of jumps were pretty nice, and the plot of being 'the one' was pretty exciting me thinks!I just enjoy the fighting, and Jet Li roxx 9/10 "},{"Title":"Action scenes ripped off from the Matrix...","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  but I liked the Matrix, and I also like this movie. The slow-mo action scenes are really cool. But, I'm getting tired of seeing people dodge bullets in slow-mo because it can't be done better than what was done in the Matrix.  This is the best Jet Li film I've seen. He was good in Kiss of the Dragon, but this movie is more entertaining.(SPOILERS) I especially liked the part where he knocks the cops around with motorcyclesOne problem I had was there was one point in which I wasn't sure which one was the bad Li and which was the good one.  And I also don't understand why they had to have both Li's wearing the same outfit. And when TK dies you think Gabe would have been a little more upset(END OF SPOILERS)FINAL VERDICT  Good choregraphed action sequences with cool FX shots. Worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Movie has an intriguing story","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What interested me the most about The One was its story. The idea of a multiverse, with many universes in which there is one representative of every individual in the multiverse is original and mind-bending. I really paid attention to the movie just to learn as much about this concept as I could. Jet Li is not the most inspiring actor in the world, but his physical abilities compensate for that as he gets to show off many times in this action flick. It's a good thing that most of this movie is action, that way we get to see the interesting side of Jet Li, and not his lacking acting side. Overall, the story is what made this movie for me and the reason I liked it so much. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was waiting in anticipation for this movie to come out. I was not disappointed. A lot of people did not like this movie because they have to rub 2 brain cells together and actually think about something. Jet Li is an excellent martial artist and an improving actor (considering he's learning the English on top of the script). Many people will say that there were ideas or elements stolen from The Matrix, I must say more believable to have Jet Li performing the fast martial arts move than Keanu Reeves (Jet Li actually has to slow down so the camera picks it up). Granted it's not an Oscar movie, I don't think they intended it to be; this movie was merely for entertainment. I'd have to say this is one of Jet Li's best movies and I've enjoyed them all. I think the reason that many people don't like this movie is because they lump all movies together instead of comparing it to movies in its category. Over all I'd give this movie 5/5 "},{"Title":"Perhaps the greatest film ever made","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After seeing Jet Li's stand-out performance in Lethal Weapon 4 (where were the academy then? Out watching French films, I expect), I thought Li had left himself with no-where to go.Friends, I was wrong.Jet Li and director James Wong have delivered a well-rounded, often thoughtful action thriller which poses, and does well at answering, the question - *possible spoiler* - what if an evil version of myself were to appear from a parallel universe and try to kill me?Performances throughout are excellent, with particularly well-crafted turns from Delroy Lindo (Congo) and British* actor Jason Stratham (John Carpenter's Ghosts of Mars).People have said that this is for martial arts fans only- that would be such a waste! Miss this film and miss out on one of the most enjoyable, most thought-provoking nights out of this or any other year. Imagine 'The Colour Purple' in bullet-time and you have it.Alright, perhaps not the greatest film ever, but certainly the greatest film yet made. I for one will watch Jet Li's future with a great deal of interest.*though I challenge you to notice! "},{"Title":"Leave your brain at the funhouse door","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Take your brain out first and you'll probably have immense fun with this parallel-universe nonsense that plotwise is very similar to Highlander, but with added martial arts. Jet Li plays a cop turned bad who spends his days zipping from one parallel universe to the next killing himself, on the premise that when there is only one Jet Li remaining &#150; himself - he will have godlike powers. Of course that all changes when he arrives in (presumably our own) universe to find that the last version of himself is almost as strong as he is &#150; and a good guy.You don't look for script and acting in this so it's probably irrelevant to say that Jason Statham, as multiverse cop assigned to protect good Li, shouldn't really be allowed in front of a camera out of the &#145;Lock Stock etc' London setting. Old hand Delroy Lindo plays it straight, and Li is a likeable hero as well as a very accomplished martial artist. The director and action team know what they're doing, and the whole thing is an undemanding and enjoyable romp &#150; even if the best action is all in the opening fifteen minutes. The ending is left wide open for a sequel &#150; I only hope they call it The One Two.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding, if derivative, martial arts extravaganza","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay&#133; I should probably preface this review by saying that THE ONE is the first Jet Li film I have ever seen. I realise Jet Li is now a pretty major international star, certainly in the martial arts world, but even today his movies are firmly rooted on Sky Moviemax, not daring to make the leap to Premier, and, perhaps somewhat snootily, this put me off for the past couple of years. I do recall when ROMEO MUST DIE was being trailered and a close friend of mine was insisting that this movie was going to be the best thing ever that I did consider going to see a Jet Li movie;  however, when the trailer for CROUCHING TIGER HIDDEN DRAGON was unveiled, I quickly forget about Jet Li and have managed to avoid him ever since.Hence, I came into THE ONE without any real idea of what to expect. Sure, I wasn't totally ignorant of Mr Li and his abilities; I had caught an interesting show entitled MODERN WARRIORS on Discovery which looked at the history of martial arts throughout the ages, and Li was featured within. So, I had a rough idea that, for all intents and purposes, and certainly in Asia, Jet Li was somewhat of `The Man', but to me appeared caught somewhere between Jean Claude Van Damme and Jackie Chan in the martial arts hierarchy. This unfortunate position wasn't assisted by the fact that aside from ROMEO MUST DIE I had never seen a Jet Li movie open at my local Odeon. Very much a straight to video man, a la Van Damme (who is now moving into that very bleak straight to budget video area.)Phew. Okay, with that out of the way, on to the review. THE ONE is a heavily influenced martial arts / science fiction flick that offers no apologies for the derivative nature of the script (and set pieces), and instead offers a slam-bam-thank-you-Van-Damme non-stop action-fest that at least partly was filmed to show off the unquestionably impressive physical abilities of Jet Li.In the opening narrative we are introduced to the concept of the Multiverse. In a nutshell, the premise is that there is not one universe, but many; multiple and infinite universes where anything and everything is possible. And, most importantly, within these universes there are an infinite number of versions of you. That is in one universe, you might be a billionaire; in another, the opposite sex; in another still, dead, or perhaps a junkie, policeman, hermaphrodite or whatever. The point is that there are an infinite number of YOU out there. And not just you, obviously (you're not that special), but everyone else, too. For example, in one of the universes we see that Al Gore is president of the United States. In another, that George W. Bush has passed a &#145;healthcare for all programme' into law (yeah, like THAT would ever happen.)Now most people in the Multiverse are completely ignorant of it; that is, they are only aware of the existence of their own universe (and their limited knowledge therein, much like you and me within this one.) Hence, at one time, the Multiverse was seen as &#145;perfectly balanced' &#150; travel within universes was possible, but was illegal, and only an elite police agency, the MultiVerse Agency (MVA), were allowed to do so &#150; but this has now been threatened by the actions of Gabriel Yulaw (played by Jet Li.)Yulaw is a former MVA officer who, in the line of duty, encountered and accidentally killed &#145;himself' in another universe in an act of self-defence. Subsequently, and unknown to both Yulaw and everyone else in the MVA, this act &#150; the removal of one of his &#145;selves' &#150; saw the life energy from the dead man transfer across to Yulaw, making him stronger, faster and more intelligent. In short, he absorbed the other man's energy. At the same time, all the other &#145;versions' of Yulaw throughout the multiverse also became stronger, faster and more intelligent; each living man received a share of the dead man's life force.When Yulaw realises what happens, he becomes power hungry, and decides that he wants to become THE ONE &#150; that is, the only version of himself in the Multiverse. Nobody, not even the MVA, know what would happen if there was only one version of Yulaw left in the Multiverse; some say he would implode, others that the Multiverse would explode. Others still suggest that Yulaw would become a living God, and this is what he wants and believes. (And you must admit, it would be tempting.)We catch up with the plot to discover that Yulaw has killed 122 versions of himself, and is now targeting version number 123 &#150; a rather unsavoury figure called Lawless (also played by Jet Li, as is every other version of Yulaw in the movie. One of the great scenes in the DVD, which I will get to later, is a short documentary piece about how they created and filmed all the different versions of the Yulaw character.) In this universe, Lawless is a prisoner, and by all accounts a junkie. The MVA are on Yulaw's case, however, and move to insure that Lawless is not killed. Heading the MVA team are agents Roedecker (Delroy Lindo) and Funsch (Jason Statham). Roedecker is the play-it-by-the-book cop, who outranks Funsch, and has to continuously keep him in check. Funsch, meanwhile, is a bit of a rogue, and wants nothing more than to kill Yulaw. Both Roedecker and the MVA know this is not wise, however, as we are told that there are only two Yulaw's left in the Multiverse! Subsequently, if one of them dies, the other could potentially become all-powerful, or worse, end life as we know it.(I had a real problem with this plot development; either I missed something, or it was never explained why there were only 125 versions of Yulaw. The &#145;infinite possibilities' spiel that was offered to us on several occasions in the movie falls flat on its face if there are only 125 universes within the Multiverse. With only 125 versions of me, there's a healthy chance that I wouldn't be all that different from person to person, and certainly not to any level of extremity.)The lower-level MVA cops look to move Lawless to a secure area, but are quickly dispatched by the arrival of Yulaw, who kills Lawless without much effort. Here we witness the real power of Yulaw (and the excellent movie SFX) &#150; we can see that he is incredibly strong and fast, that he moves at a speed that makes the MVA agents look and act slowly in comparison, and there are some neat fight scenes that show off video game type moves (I was made to think of KILLER INSTINCT in particular.) The agents can do little against Yulaw, and those that aren't killed or felled are quickly passed as Yulaw sprints away at speeds of up to fifty miles per hour!It's only when Roedecker and Funsch arrive that Yulaw is apprehended, but only after some effort. Yulaw is taken back to the MVA headquarters (in another universe), via the most painful and violent time travel portal you have ever seen, and is sentenced to life imprisonment in the Hades universe. Once again he escapes, however, assisted by his girlfriend Massie (played by SPIN CITY's Carla Gugino.) It's a bit of a no-brainer where he is going, however, and Roedecker and Funsch trace and follow him to our universe, it being the location of the remaining and only living &#145;Yulaw' version &#150; Gabe Law.Gabe is the good guy in the movie, and in our universe, he's a cop (just a regular one.) While he has no idea about the existence of the Multiverse or Yulaw, as his namesake has been methodically working through his kills, Gabe has seen the benefits, and both he and his wife, T.K. (played again by Carla Gugino) have seen Gabe grow stronger, faster and smarter. `People get older, they don't get stronger,' T.K. informs Gabe. And she's right. But there you go.Things become a lot less clear, and then infinitely more so, when Yulaw arrives and tries to kill our Gabe. At first, Gabe, T.K. and all of his cop buddies think he might be going a little off the rails, particularly when he announces that the killer they are looking for is actually&#133; himself! His statement isn't exactly assisted by security footage of Yulaw &#150; who obviously looks exactly like Gabe &#150; attacking and killing police offers and staff at a hospital.Once again, Roedecker and Funsch arrive, and manage to prevent Yulaw doing what he does best, but only temporarily. Yulaw quickly finishes off Roedecker, and also about half of the town's police force, using, amongst other things, a pair of Kawasaki motorcycles as batons (which is a really amazing bit of SFX and one of the most original martial arts scenes I've ever witnessed.) Funsch tracks down Gabe, and slowly convinces him of who Yulaw is, who Gabe is, and the consequences of Yulaw's actions. Gabe doesn't want any part of it at first, but when Yulaw kills his missus, he quickly adjusts his priorities. As he comes to terms with the death of T.K. (`She was my centre&#133; she made me whole&#133;' is a particularly trite example of the dodgy dialogue during any romantic parts of this movie.) and his super-abilities, he and Funsch decide to track down Yulaw and kill him, even though Gabe realises that, should they succeed, he must die too (else he'll implode, the Multiverse will end, McDonald's will run out of quarter-pounders etc etc.)So, now we have what the film has been building towards &#150; the inevitable showdown between Yulaw and Gabe Law. It's Jet Li vs. Jet Li folks, and they ain't taking any prisoners.I'm not going to give away anything else here; I'm sure you can work out where the film is going, but I won't spoil it for you apart from saying that the closing fight scene is possibly one of the greatest ever staged, and that the actual ending of the film is really, really cool (it's one of those scenes you've wanted to see for years and years.)Throughout the movie, both the battles and SFX are outstanding, and I would put this up there with THE MATRIX &#150; to which THE ONE unapologetically owes a bit debt &#150; in terms of the wow-factor. I really believe that in this film they've taken wire and blue screen usage in martial arts films to the next level, and while, as I said, there is an element of a &#145;showcase' here for Jet Li's talents, that isn't necessarily a bad thing when you're as good as he is. There are also strong elements of THE HIGHLANDER in here, particularly in the entire THE ONE thread (at one point in the film Yulaw even utters, `There can be only one!' which I am hoping was a nod towards THE HIGHLANDER rather than an out and out steal.) Having said that, there are parts of this film that surpasses anything seen in either of these films, and in particular the fighting methodology and delivery is many levels above that seen in THE MATRIX.It certainly was not flawless, though; the dialogue throughout was questionable, particularly, as I said, in any romantic scenes between Li and Gugino, and even though Li has made leaps and bounds with his English since LETHAL WEAPON 4 (when apparently he couldn't speak even one word) it's obvious that the script has been written so not to stretch him too much. This isn't his fault per se, but it does mean that the dialogue is a bit, let's say, restricted at times. It's rumoured that Li studies English for four hours a day, so hopefully that will turn around soon.And as I mentioned there were some elements of the plot that were glazed over a little too much for my liking, particularly those relating to the concept of the Multiverse. I also didn't like how Gabe Law &#145;suddenly' became super powerful &#150; I guess they were again taking a little from THE MATRIX with Gabe suddenly &#145;getting it', but it was a little too rushed for my liking. Indeed, the film would have benefited from another 30-45 minutes of background and pacing; I would have liked to have seen some more history of the two main characters.Overall, though, I was very impressed, and the film kept me glued for the full eighty-five or so minutes. I'll be making a beeline for other Jet Li films now &#150; I've heard that FIST OF LEGEND, THE LEGEND and some of his other Hong Kong films are outstanding &#150; and who knows, I might even give &#145;em a bash on Sky Moviemax. And that would be a first.RATING 8/10 "},{"Title":"Get your butt kicked into the next world....","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li goes around dishing out death to himself, closely followed by Jason 'bad American accent' Statham and Delroy 'bit part' Lindo. Otherwise the cast are all good, and Jet Li is.....well, Jet Li.The camera work and photography follow the current trend of fast edited 'dynamic shots' of no real importance other than 'gee that looks cool'. Still, it's got a lot of style.The problem is (as with many action films)the story.  There are several inconsistencies with the Multiverse concept, and the idea isn't explored as much as it should have been.  Intertwined is the typical love interest thing, though you probably won't care (I didn't).  The dialogue is typical of the genre.  Jason Statham's fluctuating US accent is laughable at best. It's a shame though, as I am actually a big fan.Lots of people are going to say that the special effects in 'The One' are ripped straight from 'The Matrix'.  Truth is that some are, but I still found myself thinking how cool they looked, and how well done they are. Part of the credit for that has to go to Jet Li himself.  If you watch the DVD extras you'll see pre-digital the footage; and it's amazing.  As are the rest of the DVD special features a real deluxe disc.The One is a definite rent, and worth owning too.  It's not revolutionary though, and I'd put it on a par with 'Romeo Must Die'.7/10(I like!).  "},{"Title":"fast and fun film!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just saw this on DVD. I was a little unsure about whether or not I should rent it, as I can't stand all the wire work in martial arts films these days. I'm glad my curiousity finally got the better of me. I found  the premise interesting (though certainly not unique), and the action was top notch. Wire work was minimal, and some of the CGI shots were really good. Jet Li is fun to watch, and Carla Gugino is hot ! I was amused at some of the alternate Law personalities too, Swedish Law, Rasta Law... pretty funny !I'd give this movie 8/10 stars in the sci-fi/martial arts category. "}{"Title":"The One line summary","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li is back and kicks double ass!He also stinks twice at it.The effects? Good.The rest of the movie? Bad!Ever since Jet Li came to America, he didn't make anything good, except maybe for his `bad' part in Lethal Weapon 4 that was quite good.I must say, I liked The One more then Romeo Must Die which director Andrzej Bartkowiak has no feeling for action. He doesn't know how to put his camera when the action starts and try's to make it modern and fails at it completely.James Wong has much more feeling, and maybe much more budget too, with the way how he puts the action in a scene. And I must say, I enjoyed the fighting scenes in the beginning and somewhere in the middle.But the ending was just bad, it was too long and after one or two minutes I gave up and didn't care who would win the fight.The story? Excellent! Or was it terrible? It depends from which dimension you are... The story is as simple as can be. Jet Li from some dimension, kills every other Jet Li in every other dimension, so he can gain his power and become the One.To me it just sounds like a bad episode of SLIDERS. I know allot of people that will like this movie because it is a brainless fighting flick with good SFX, and I admit there are movies that are worse, but to me this wasn't good either. I prefer an older Jet Li movie over this. I hated the ending of the good Jet Li, it was so painful to watch this through. The ending of the bad Jet Li made the pain go away a little. Just a little. But the Wodka made me forget the movie. Just a little&#133;  "},{"Title":"Many great fight scenes","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Its been a while since I've walked out of a movie without a head-ache from trying to work out the plot.  If you've seen 'Minority Report' or 'Vanilla Sky' you know exactly what I'm talking about.This is just plain good hand-to-hand combat action, with a pretty reasonable story line.  This movie is like a new and VERY improved version of 'The Quest' or 'Mortal Kombat'.  Its really nice just to see some guy beat the hell out of another guy because we have not seen it for a while in a movie, and who better for the lead role, other than Jet Li.For this type of movie, it would be impossible to make anything much better - If you decide to watch a movie like this, then you can't expect something too deep.  Everyone knows that Jet Li means Kung Fu action.  But this time is was great kung fu action.  The very end was awesome, I can't give it away.  But just before the credits come up is some of the best fighting and cinematography of the entire movie.I'm bias because I really enjoy combat movies, but this was pretty damn good, and I would like to complement the sound co-ordinator because the music really enhances the movie.  Watch it with a good sound setup.  "},{"Title":"much better than kiss of the dragon","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A great martial arts type sci-fi film. I guess kind of similar to the Matrix. Fight scenes were great also, and i'm sure i saw some of the Wing Chun Kung-Fu style used in several scenes. All in all a fine film, not Li's best (Fist of Legend) but a hell of a lot better than Kiss of the Dragon "},{"Title":"Jet Li takes on himself","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I get the feeling that Jet Li's status and career is going down-hillfaster than her can run up it - which is a shame, he is very, verytalented - excellent at Martial Arts and a genuinely nice guy - but hisfilms of late have been putting him on the track to B-movie hell.The One tells the story of a multi-verse where Evil Jet Li wants to killthe other Jet Li's in other universe's to obtain all-power.  Afterkilling most of them he goes after the last one, the Good Jet Li who hasalso obtained powers similar to Evil Jet Li.The film is a blantant rip-off of the Matrix, but its not a totalrip-off, the plot is different, but the bullet time isn't.  Anyway JetLi fights himself in the end fight, which is quite good - with thewonderful eye candy of molten ore splashing behind them in super slowmotion.B-movie material, but still pretty entertaining.Ove "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, but definitely a great soundtrack","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I should start by saying that I am a Jet Li fan.  I have seen most of his American movies and some of his Chinese ones.  I cannot honestly say that The One was his best movie, but it wasn't at all a bad one.  The plot was a little farfetched, but it just made the movie that much more fun.  The effects in the film are reminiscent of those in The Matrix, and some even go beyond what The Matrix has done.  The fight scenes (***SPOILER*** especially when Li fights himself in the end) are choreographed in an excellent way.On a side note, the soundtrack for this movie is a rocker's dream.  Songs from bands such as Drowning Pool, Disturbed, and Papa Roach give the movie an extra push during the fight scenes.Overall, i give this movie a 9/10.  The One is a good movie and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good action movie. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  But this is really rather run of the mill and formulaic, although I'm always glad to see TC McQueen in something. Maybe I took this too seriously - that motorbike gag really belonged in a Tom and Jerry cartoon. Still, the end fight is nice if you're actually into martial arts and not just wire-fu, and any film which works in a variation of the line yew shure do got a purty mouth has to have some redeeming qualities. I'll wait a few months and give it a second chance "},{"Title":"A good action flick with wicked fight scenes.Very entertaning!!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    This is one of the few Amarican Jet Li films that is actually good.The One has great fight scenes and spiecal effects that do in a lot of ways relate to The Matrix.The acting is again like many films  has bad acting but it is not the worst,but is bad.Also this film is way to short it is not even 90 min. long!!It would have been much better if it was longer and if they put some more fight scenes and some plot twists in it.I recommend this movie to anyone who likes action films.This film does have bad acting,great action/fight scenes,is too short but overall i give it a 7.7/10 stars "},{"Title":"Only watch this movie once.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  At the first viewing of this movie, the plot was mind-blowing. It had good Matrix-like fight scenes and good action. The second and/or third time you watch it, the cinematography gets sloppy and the fight scenes don't look as good.  "},{"Title":" The Number One","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is Jet Li's best installments yet since the Once Upon a Time in China sequels. This movie surpasses the matrix in every way from the fight scenes to the graphics. To make things short, This is one of the greatest action movies ever made, and you better watch out for  Cradle to the Grave and that's the bottom line.  "},{"Title":"Too short for it's own good.","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is 1hr and 27 minutes.  Subtract about 5-6 minutes for the credits and your stuck with one short film.  This movie coulda been a 2 hour kickbutt movie.  Instead it becomes a vehicle to remind American's that Jet Li is still around.  And to show off his excellent moves.  This movie is almost a remake of Timecop.  Except your in deep crap if your caught in the future.(Spoilers)Okay and then there is this ending.  What ending?  They don't end it really. They did a rush job on the movie and wrapped the ending up so quick that your left wondering what happened.  Reminds me of The Avengers.Most annoying part is Jet Li's comment at the end.  I'm nobody's bit*h. Saying that in english went over my head. Gotta keep reminding myself... these kind of action stars have more fun over there in China or wherever. This movie coulda been alot better.  Instead your left with something shorter than most TV pilots.4/10Quality 4/10  (ratings only for Jet Li.   Movie quality is blah) Entertainment 8/10 Replayable  7/10 "}{"Title":"Very original, but very 'Matrixy.'","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The similarities to this movie to the Wachowski Brothers' The Matrix are many.1. Reality is not what it seems to be 2. If you're fast enough, you can move appreciably with respect to a bullet, thus moving in bullet time 3. At one point, Jet Li's character appears to die, and then returns back (that's not a spoiler, don't worry) and gets better at what he was doing before (moving fast, thinking fast, doing stuff fast, basically... being fast)The story isn't fundamentally the same as &#145;The Matrix' but it's still too similar for comfort. But then, it isn't a bad story. The concept is that there are 125 universes (collectively the multiverse&#133; pretty good) and they're all alternate realities. In one, Al Gore is the President (I wish I existed in that one), and in another George Bush is the president. In one, Jet Li is a criminal psycho that shakes his head constantly, and in another Jet Li is a police officer. Simple, eh? No. Not simple.If you can kill your alternate &#145;self' in another universe, his energy is distributed among the survivors all over the multiverse. This was not known till one guy (who is an inter-universal police&#133; an agency set up to keep things ship-shape in the multiverse) kills his alternate &#145;self' by mistake and then finds out he gets stronger. Having experienced this, he (Jet Li) gets psycho and goes to each of the remaining 123 universes and kills &#145;himself,' getting their energy. He meets his match when he meets his 124th self, though. Pretty original when you think of it, but still&#133; too Matrixy for comfort when they try to revolutionize reality in a movie stuffed with bullet-time scenes.The thing with the Matrix was, the bullet-time scenes were limited to very few... I think I could count them in one hand. Trinity's kick to the policeman with a broken arm, Agent Smith and Neo's showdown in the subway (Agent Smith You're empty. Neo So are you), Neo's dodging Agent Jones's bullets (`Only human').The fact that the scenes were limited to so few was that they were made&#133; with STYLE (except for the ripples, which I still don't get&#133; breaking the sound barrier?). They were amazing, with no reason for disbelief. Someone can come out of that movie and think, `Sure, if I could move fast enough, I can dodge bullets' without being a complete and absolute psycho.The bullet time scenes in &#145;The One' are way too many, which means some of them are better than others. Some of them are strangely reminiscent to `Blade' part I (Wesley Snipes) when he fires at Deacon Frost in the park. Collectively, the bullet-time scenes weren't too bad at all, but some of them were a little sketchy.There are also a few scenes in which Jet Li jumps heights that normal humans aren't supposed to be able to. Filmmakers should really think a little bit when making scenes in which actors do things that normal humans cannot do. They should ask themselves `Why can't a man jump 10 meters in the air?' It's simple. A normal man's legs cannot give him the initial velocity required to reach such a height. Please, Mr. and Mrs. Filmmakers, get rid of the wires. Wires don't make people look like they're jumping. It makes them look like they're floating! And that's not the point! I believe in Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon they were meant to float, but if Jet Li's going to have to jump from road level high enough to hold onto a traffic light, his legs are strong enough to give him the initial velocity required to reach such a height! If you're going to have to stuff a movie with special effects (and this movie was basically &#145;engineered' for special effects) do it right. That's where I found the special effects were a bit off. Jet Li floated. I don't like floating people.Some of the effects were really good, though. I gotta hand it to them. They made his characters seem truly powerful sometimes. The scene where he fights himself is certainly praiseworthy effort. It seemed pretty real to me. I was trying to look carefully at the Jet Li facing away from the camera, but was it just me, or did they appear to be exactly the same? I can almost always point out a double in movies, but not in this one. Good stuff.Jet Li is not a bad actor. I can't yet say he's a good actor. My definition of a good actor is Tom Hanks or Denzel, but then again, Tom and Denzel don't normally dodge bullets, and even if they did, it wouldn't be for roles like those that they'd get praised for being a good actor. Keanu Reeves dodged bullets, but, well&#133; he's expressionless. Li wasn't bad. He has the kind of face that can turn really evil one instant and then look really innocent, so the fact that he played both the villain and the good guy didn't mess things up.The makers also left plenty of room for a sequel, because clearly, the most important question wasn't answered in this movie what happens when all 124 of them die, and only one remain?. Let's just hope Jet Li doesn't float in the sequel.I give this movie, with a floating Jet Li, some shotty bullet-time scenes, a good motorbike-toting scene (forget fighting people off with sticks&#133; motorbikes work better if you have the strength of 123 of yourselves), reasonably good acting, a good story and this totally amazing hand-held gadget that opens up into a circular screen, a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Top actioner of recent times","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps the greatest action movie of 2001/2002. I am not kidding, I absolutely loved this film. After Jet Li's lacklustre Romeo Must Die I wasn't raising my hopes too much when I went in to see it at the local multiplex. Much to my amazement, the film was completely engrossing from start to finish...like when I first saw the Matrix, and to a lesser extent, X-Men. Plot and dialogwise it could have easily been another Jean Claude Van Damme vehicle but thanks to some amazing action/fight sequences and Jet Li's natural charm it's far from it. It does, however, have a few shortcoming's (noteably Jason Strathem's accent), but by the end of the film you will definately forgive.Good Points Jet Li, Carla Gugino (first appearance akin to Sharon Stone in Basic Instinct), cop juggling, last fight, rock music (with a capital R),Bad Points Jason Strathem's acting, cgi bullets, less-then-believable-plot (not that it matters..)Overall I give it 8.5/10. "},{"Title":"Double Trouble For Jet Li.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Growing ever stronger by killing the alternate universe versions of himself an Evil Jet Li finds the last victim a tough cookie! The Matrix was for many western audiences their first glimpse of 'wire work kung-fu'. It was only a matter of time before this technique was used as the basis for a whole movie & The One is that movie. Growing ever stronger with each kill the Evil-Jet Li displays more skills in a bullet-time style. Like many of the eastern actors Jet Li has yet to display his full talents in an American movie but The One should at least lead on to better things. How many western action movie actors could play the lead in a foreign film? None. Although the role doesn't stretch him Jet Li is a charismatic actor & there is a marked difference between the good & evil versions he portrays. The One is not what you'd call a great film & enjoyment hinges on your love of Kung Fu. Then again if you are aware of such films as the Once Upon A Time In China series you may be a bit disappointed. The plot is pretty non-existent & the acting OK. But a film like this hits all the right targets. With its nu-metal soundtrack blasting out at every given opportunity it will be loved by 14 year old boys looking for no nonsense entertainment. Indeed it feels like a movie based on a computer game. The action is pretty good if a little over-reliant on CGI. A scene involving two police motorbikes used as handheld weapons & the inevitable good v evil Jet Li final fight stand out. Many other action scenes punctuate its short running time, there is no flab or excess dialogue here!  It also ends with a great scene which makes you think you've watched a bigger, better movie than you have. Overall this is nowhere near as good as many of the films Jet Li has made with the likes of Tsui Hark. At less than 90 minutes this is worth seeing during a cheap afternoon performance or catching on video. It is rubbish, but entertaining rubbish nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Cool to watch, but forgettable","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One, was a movie i was waiting to see for a long time. I am a huge fan of Sci-fi action flicks and The One doesnt stand up to classics such as Terminator 1 & 2, The Matrix, Blade Runner, or even Total Recall. I thought it was fairly entertaining, and it was nice to see Jet Li who is by far the best action hero in Hollywood now, its about time because I wondered what took so long for America to embrace him. No one other than Bruce Lee has comparable talents to Jet's.(MINOR SPOILER) He is great in this movie, although most of the fights are helped by wires, and blue screens, still the last scene was so cool to see as he took on the whole prison by himself with his lightning quick moves. Overall a decent movie. ** stars "},{"Title":"Jet times two...","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It seems that there is a mixed bag of comments regarding Jet's latest film, The One. Okay...it's not going to win any awards from the mainstream cinema viewing audience but I feel that his fans will not be disappointed. It may have more holes than Swiss cheese, but what the hey! It's not every day you get two Jets' for the price of one. It's a fun film.lots of action, slow-mo Matrix style butt kicking, bullet dodging and banal sci-fi lingo (even though I thought the idea of a multiverse was amusingly thought provocking). If your wondering whether this film is worth a view check out the trailer.what you see is what you get.expect a fast, loud ride. "},{"Title":"Jet Li is for real","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm tired of people saying they don't like Jet Li's movies because they don't have any plot and Jet Li is a terrible actor. Give the guy a break, he does his job better than anyone else. The bottom line is the special effects are awesome, the story is as complex, intriguing and interesting as you could ask for. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you may think!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After a friend of mine totally slated this film a week before I went to watch it, i was gutted that the only thing on by the time we got to the cinema was this. However, after watching such a fantastic film, i may just argue my point with him. Now dont get me wrong, this isn't a masterpiece and will not sweep 14 Oscars but nevertheless is worth a night out for. If you forget the ridiculous plot and poor American accents from British actors then the fight scenes are worth twice the money you paid to get in there. This is a typical lads film, superb ability showed by Li and good special effects, and probably one where we come out of the cinema and try to re-act the moves we've just seen, our girlfriends trailing behind tutting. If you enjoy the crouching tiger style of fighting without the plot then this is your film and it's definitly worth a look. "},{"Title":"Kinda like the Matrix and junk.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When me and my cousin went and saw this, we both had no idea on what it was about. All we knew was that it was a rip off of THE MATRIX. But, THE ONE is a lot better. *MINOR SPOILERS* It tells the story of a sheriff deputy Gabe Yulaw (Jet Li) who must stop a universe-traveling killer who is killing himself off in other universes to gain their power. This is a movie that hits you hard on the action sequences. They are extremley intense. And since we saw this on the HUGE screen, the sound and stuff was all very loud. And also very good. This is a quick flick that tries to disguise itself as a thriller at some parts which I thought we pretty lame. But this movie is a typical sci-fi action thriller, quick moving and uses mind blowing special effects. If you want something a little different, take this title off the shelf. 5/5. "},{"Title":"Jet takes on 124 roles!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One is a mixed affair - Matrix-esque in its style with silly cartoon violence - yet Li's never acted better and although littered with gimmickry he still escapes looking cooler than ever. The story is especially nonsense a futuristic sci-fi adventure (like they all are) detailing the plight of a serial killer through a parallel universe a crazy Jet Li is determined to kill every other Jet Li on all the different universes to become the supreme 'one'. It sounds shoddy and in truth it is, but lets look on the bright side the wirework extremes and fast edits seem to escape scrutiny while the special effects that back it all up aren't too bad either, and where else can we see two Jet Li's facing each other for the final extended beat-'em-up?  "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the wake of The Matrix we have still yet to see an equal, or even a movie that is anywhere near as close to it in terms of plot, fun, characterization and end satisfaction within its genre. Watching the trailer to The One (the title alone seeming to be an off hand reference to Neo(Keanu Reeves) as being The One in The Matrix) you get the feeling that you are in for the sci fi, cyberpunk, kung fu treat that we had back in cinemas in 1999. Unfortunately, this film to me seemed to be more within the same league as Double Impact with Jean Claude Van Damme playing himself twice, much like Jet Li is trying to manage here. Both films also have a commonality in that the main lead has no hope of keeping the film together by their screen presence alone (or together. Hmmm! Wonder if both leads get paid twice).Apart from the plot holes and obvious setups, the main problem with the film is you really don't care about the performances that anyone gives. With a lack of experience with the director's other works (apart from the odd episode of the X-files perhaps) I cannot say if it was largely his fault or that of the casting director or writer. Needless to say there seem to be quite a few compounded errors of judgement as far as the end result is concerned.If you wish to waste 90 minutes then go for it, but I wouldn't advise anyone throwing money at the experience, unless they are a serious hardcore kung fu/sci-fi nut chaffing at the bit for The Matrix Reloaded and in need of a fix. Believe me when I say serious Matrix fans will feel very short changed. "}{"Title":"Poor Poor little Jet meister","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So many kicks, so little time...If it weren't for his board stiff, automaton, Channel 5 newsreader delivery of his lines, the Jet-ster might actually make a fully engrossing movie. Instead, every time the poor guy opens his maw for any lengthy dialogue, you find yourself cringing in your seat, hoping he wont flub the lines... Or more precisely, that the teleprompter guy behind the camera will speed up the scrolling motion so old Jetty can hurry up and get back to the arse-kicking already!!Good thing he's barely likeable enough to digest. As far as plot goes, dont bother to look - you'll have better luck finding Area 51. The 'love interest' side story is as unconvincing as they come - I've seen better chemistry between two pieces of drywall (not to mention better acting). But maybe thats too harsh, hmmmm..... nope ) OK, so the special effects and punches make it worth watching. With Jackie Chan having way more persona, much better English, and commanding big $$$$ that get him the good roles, and Chow Yun Phat being a damn good actor in the more serious roles; this leaves Jet to bat clean-up with movies like these -Just beware of those foul balls..... "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was simply amazing.  Jet Li is perfect in the role demonstrating his cool, calm and collective acting style which makes him so smooth of an actor.  And of course, his fighting is no less spectacular. The effects and images are also wonderful. "},{"Title":"take this movie for what it is","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this is a great mindless actions film. Sometimes you just want to be dazzled by effects in movies, and this certainly fits the bill. I was laughing out of astonishment watching this film for the first time. It has some of the best action sequences i've ever seen, and a great premise. However,there aren't enough fights. I understand that those effects don't come cheap. I thought Jet-Li was great in this role, because he is almost a like a living Goku. The final fight, where Jet-Li obviously fights himself, it something you need to see to believe. If you want story and effects, rent The Matrix, otherwise, watch this for the fun of movies, and don't look deeper than just fun. "},{"Title":"Second-Rate Action Film, but Entertaining Nonetheless","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  	Jet Li is essentially an Asian Jean Claude Van Damme.  He's a great fighter, but lacks the personality of a Jackie Chan, or the serious acting skills of a Chow Yun Fat.  As such, he is limited (at least in his American releases, I'm unfamiliar with his HK films) to forgettable second-rate action films.  Compared to the rest of his American films, The One, is no different in that it's essentially a second-rate action film, but the addition of science fiction elements actually makes the story work quite well and the film quite enjoyable.	Any action film, particularly one driven by a kung-fu name, needs to feature at least a couple of memorable fighting scenes.  Although I'm no kung-fu aficionado, I have seen fighting that far surpasses that in The One, but I have also seen fighting that is worse.  As cool as the gimmick of a perceived master fighting himself sounds, it also limits the amount of fighting greatly (it seems much slower and more controlled, since, no matter how well trained a stunt man may be, he is no substitute for another fighter), as well as virtually eliminating any hope of chemistry.  It's a great idea in theory, but on screen, it's simply not compelling.  More enjoyable are scenes where the evil Jet Li takes out scores of police officers in prototypical comic-book fashion to the tune of awful nu-metal rock songs.	Besides lacking chemistry with himself, Li also lacks any sense of romantic chemistry with his wife, T.K. (Carla Gugino) (there is much more chemistry between the supporting characters of the multiverse peace-keepers, Roedecker Delroy Lindo and Funsch Jason Statham).  Though he is believable as the two separate personas, Li is still pretty bad in dialogue-heavy scenes, suffering from a robotic delivery (a la the aforementioned Jean Claude Van Damme).  Originally, the lead in this film was intended to be Dwayne The Rock Johnson, but thankfully the writers re-wrote the majority of the dialogue to better suit Li.  As such, most of Li's dialogue is simple, but given that his delivery still isn't very good, it works well.	What really makes the film work, though, is the story.  Interdimensional travel, a power-hungry ex-multiverse-peace-keeper, spiritual balance, the possible collapsing of the entire universe, somehow it all clicks.  There are a few bothersome holes, but the writer and director make no claims about scientific accuracy, stating simply and truthfully that they only used the plot device to get Jet Li to fight himself.  For this purpose, not only does it work perfectly, but it also makes it somewhat surprising how well the rest of the story holds up.  At a little under an hour and a half, the story is the perfect length, neither too short so that it's difficult to follow nor dragged down by filler and unnecessary dimension to the characters (normally this would be a bad thing, but once it's accepted that it's simply a plot device to get the two Jet Li's together for a climactic battle, the expectation for character substance becomes suspended like any other belief in this type of picture).  Perhaps it is because, unlike movies based on time travel (of which the holes surrounding the idea of time travel are more known and arguable, sometimes taking precedence in criticism over elements of the actual film itself) such as the Terminator and Time Cop series, nothing like this has been done before, and the idea scientifically is relatively new.	The One utilizes the science fiction elements of its plot well to set up its real draw &#150; Jet Li fighting himself.  While that unfortunately doesn't live up to its promise, as a whole the film will never win any accolades or appear on any best of lists, but is entertaining and knows its limits.  It may not be totally innovative, or brilliantly executed, but it's certainly fun, and definitely a guilty pleasure.  "},{"Title":"Quality Action","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a quality action movie. There is alot of action and very little story. What story there is is beyond comprehension but then again you don't really go to see a Jet Li movie for the quality dramatic story do you?In terms of action this is Jet Li at his best this is definately one of his best films in that respect and the final fight scene where he fights himself, simply WOW that is definately one of my all time favorite fights in movies. The fact that each of Jet Li's persona's fight completely differently is also an example of masterful coreography.I had only one real problems with this movie. One is that the acting other than Delroy Lindo and Jet Li himself is TERRIBLE! In fact Jason Statham in particular should be shown in drama school as a key example of how NOT TO ACT EVER! "},{"Title":"Jet Li is great.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this film was okay.  The action was great and it looked very real.  I saw a little bit of the Matrix in this film, it did not stop me from watching it.  I really don't have a whole lot to say about this film except that it was a typical action flick fighting, shooting, killing.  I thought that it was okay.  Not bad, not good, but in between. "},{"Title":"Well, it's not quite as bad as Romeo Must Die...","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Another substandard action movie.  Great.  Just what we needed.There's one basic rule for Jet Li movies.  If the fight scenes are excellent, the rest of the movie will work.  In this one, the fight scenes were a mess of bad wirework and silly-looking computer effects.  The quality of Corey Yuen's choreography seems to depend on dumb luck.  In High Risk and Kiss of the Dragon, he put together some very tight and effective fight sequences.  But in movies like Fong Sai Yuk, Romeo Must Die, and The One, his work comes across as made-for-TV-level crap.I won't comment on the plot, except to say that there was too damn much of it for this kind of movie.  In a poorly-written kung fu picture, the plot should take a back seat to the fighting.  Unless you keep it simple, the plot can take away from the action and become annoying.  That's what happened in The One. "},{"Title":"The Two above average...barely","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have to go to the bathroom!! Is it the One? Or the Two? Oh Its the One followed by a lot of Two! Okay this movie wasn't that bad but man it is for sure the worse Jet Li movie I have ever seen, he's really let himself go. Too much computer aided fight choreography not enough of the flair of real chinese gung fu (kung fu to the non-chinese). A Jet Li movie use to mean seeing some real fancy stuff aided with wires at most. Now I think the Matrix has kinda ruined the Kung Fu genre. Kung Fu movies should be about kung fu, not all this crazy CGI nonsense. Also Kung Fu movies should have martial artists as stars. The thought of Keanu doing shaolin style movements sickens me. This movie was very boring, nothing much happens in it that you can't figure out easily.5.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"superb special effects","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Crouching Tiger and Matrix set a pretty high bar for special effects -- and I hadn't seen a movie yet that could really be said to have improved on them. But I think this movie has done it. High leaps, stop action, bullet dodging, and some really interesting high speed action following the freezes that I won't describe in detail. If you like this kind of movie, I think you'll really like what they've done to extend the genre.The choreography is seemless. I was completely absorbed in the action scenes, and I found the scenes where he fights himself to be totally believable. Well done.The plot is quite good, once you get over the basic premise of parallel universes (but that's a pretty well travelled road in science fiction so it's no stretch here.) The acting is much better than I expected (I was expecting Van Damme or Chow Yun Fat, but Jet Li seems to be a better actor.) I hadn't seen much of Jet Li, and I now plan to see more.This movie qualifies as drama even though it is an action vehicle.Minor spoilers follow. Stop here if you want to be surprised completely.There is a sad plot twist near the end. The ending is uplifting, though, fixing the twist. A nice way to play it out. The poetic justice for the antagonist is well done.  "},{"Title":"good action","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had some very exciting action scenes and some great special effects. Unfortunately thats' the only thing good about this movie. The story of the movie and the idea of parallel universes and was not well presented. Even though the story was very simple, it could have been expanded more which would have made it more interesting. Jet Li can only fight not act and unless he gets some acting lessons he will only be known for fighting and not his acting. The other actors in this movie were not very good either and not very well known anyway so thats' okay. Overall I enjoyed this movie even though it's retarded "}{"Title":"Kick Ass Movie, Jet Li Rules!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you like Sci Fi Actioners with Kick Ass Fighting I have two words for you. THE ONE!, Jet Li kicks everyones ass including his own. A man moves through dimensions killing himself, as he kills another version of him he becomes more powerful. The Cops catch him before he can kill the final version of him (two left if you count him). He escapes, chaos ensuse and he comes face to face with himself again. This time though his other version won't go down easily. Non stop action, dodgy plot and some hammed up action. Enjoyable in spades. Top Class Movie for a mindless afternoon.See This Film! "},{"Title":"Martial Arts At Its Finest","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li's role in The One was an incredible mix of action and drama, as Gabe has to fight himself to avenge his wife's death as well as keep his own life. Special Effects were incredible, and I am pleased to see some choreography that allows Jet Li's unique style of fighting to be used in a North American movie. I enjoyed almost every moment of this movie and will give it an 8/10. James Wong knows what people want... "},{"Title":"Great action from the first frame to the last!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, this is a REAL action movie. My only complaint is that it is a bit short, and when that is your only complaint, you know you like the movie.Personally I HATE futuristic weapons and such, especially when it is not motivated (The Sixth Day). Sure, the weapons they use are somewhat futuristic, but they don't shoot laser beams. I prefer bullets, and in these kinds of movies, bullets are needed for effect. Luckily.I can compare the opening sequence in this movie with Swordfish. When you see these intro's, you think to yourself WOW! I hope this movie will be this cool all the time!. This movie IS. Swordfish wasn't. "},{"Title":"There's no spoon here.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I find it interesting how some of my all-time favorite films in some way, have found their way to spawn a new generation of films.For example, The Silence of The Lambs (Seven, Kiss the Girls),Pulp Fiction (Two Days in the Valley, Go) and, as I was expecting, The Matrix, which is in the same action, special FX, martial arts thriller league of The One.Unfortunately, this is no Matrix. Apart from the eye candy and the videogame-like action sequences, there isn't much here. Jet Li, who seems to be in a movie every 3 months lately, does what you expect him to do. The plot has more wholes than Swiss cheese (though you are not watching this movie for the plot anyways) and the thrills are kept to a minimum because you know from the beginning the good guy is going to win practically unscratched.Overall, The One is a poor man's Matrix. Hopefully the genre will spawn a gem pretty soon, unlike this mediocre attempt. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. It has a hardcore sci-fi premise, lots of great action, and a nice love story that establishes the main character's motive. The subplot friendship between the two multiverse agents also provides good motivation for why the cop does what he can to help the main character. And did I say that the action was great. "},{"Title":"A film that is not unique, but still excellent","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'll start by saying this there is very little original about The One. Now that that's out of the way, The One is still a great movie.  It pays homage to (or steals) scenes from movies like Blade and The Matrix, but refines them a lot.  If you like action movies, you will probably want to see The One.  It isn't groundbreaking, but it's a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Great Action & Special Effects","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great movie because of the practically non-stop action and special effects--which is an art form in itself.  I'm surprised The One wasn't rated higher on IMDB, but apparently some folks weren't to happy because they felt the story line was a little weak.  In my opinion the story line could have been a little better, but it was still good.I bought this movie on DVD, before seeing it, and it was worth the $18. "},{"Title":"Asian version of Highlander","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie epitomizes what I don't like about Jet Li movies. That being the special effects.The fight choreographers made excessive use of wires in this movie. It was to point that I thought I was watching a cartoon instead of a movie.The problem is that with all the special effects it becomes like watching the Matrix. Since impossible actions are normal you end up expecting them and being disappointed by the mundane martial arts sequences. Even when Jet Li is exhibiting phenomenal martial arts skills I felt like yawning and wondered why he wasn't doing it faster or 20 feet up in the air.The plot could have been good with a different point of view. It did start to resemble Highlander more than a little, especially when they meet in the steam plant and face each other. When the bad jet Li said that he would be The One I kept expecting Christopher Lambert to pop in and say There can be only ONE!All in all a disappointing movie. If you like martial arts action and amazing stunts that *aren't* due to special effects you'd be better off sticking to Jackie Chan movies. "},{"Title":"Let's get some things striaght","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have previously written a review of The One and I realize that people are comparing The One to The Matrix and saying that the techniques used in The One are ripped off from The Matrix. Get your facts straight, people! The choreographers, directors and other behind the scenes people took the techniques that were successful in other martial arts movies and used them in The Matrix. It's just that the average American theater-goer thinks that the flying on air and fighting in The Matrix is the first of its kind.It was the combination of sci-fi, action and a dire future that made The Matrix unique. The wire techniques and bullet time are old.Now as for The One, I think a martial artist like Jet Li could have done this movie without wires and made it kick ass.This movie bears no resemblance to The Matrix. They're both sci-fi action and they both begin with the word The, but that's all.My complaints are that Jet Li's character doesn't go through enough pain, he is saddled with a buddy and Jet Li's English is baaaaad- almost as bad as Jackie Chan's. In his native language, Jet Li is kick ass. I don't know what vocal coach he uses, but the man should be shot.The One is brainless fun, most notably the very last scene as the credits roll. Yulaw's nobody's bitch, and neither is Jet Li. If you have nothing else to watch, watch this and don't expect flawless scientific explanation. If you're looking for a gripping, excellent award-winning film, don't come around here! "},{"Title":"This movie kicked arse!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Now this was a damn good action movie.  A effective mix of good old science fiction and superhuman buttkicking!  You got a evil Jet Li going through a multiverse of dimensions killing off himself in each dimension, spreading each of the dead Jet Li's lifeforce among the surviving Jet Li's; therefore, making each more superhuman.  Ultimately the evil Jet Li narrows it down to himself and one other, the basic good Jet Li.  Each with amazing strength, speed, and intelligence.  They have a climatic and epic battle, the loser death, and the winner, possible Godhood.Needless to say, I loved this movie, and I am surprised this movie didn't get more buzz, it was a big budget movie with a great cast and solid ending. I highly recommend this flick for a good way to spend a hour and half. So be sure to check your brain at the door, and get ready for a rollercoaster of a movie...  "}{"Title":"This movie is awesome...","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have never seen a greater wuyi (kung-fu) movie in my life.  This is by far Jet Li's greatest American movie and, dare I say it ... his best ever! The plot was great.  The music was good (more of a punk fan myself).  The acting was great.  Definately a good cast.  A lot of good actors.  Now probably the coolest feature in the movie is the bullet time.  It's like The Matrix plus. He's moving fast and everything AROUND him is moving slow.  Very cool. And the final fight seen is absolute Jet Li bliss.  Seeing him fight ... himself!  And I love what they did with the styles.  Yulaw uses Hsing I Chuan because he is a very narrow, straight foward, and aggresive person. This is why he is winning on the catwalk, it is straight.  Gabe uses Ba Gua Zhang which is a very round and balanced styles which suits him perfectly. He is very balanced and well rounded in all areas of his life.  He has the advantage in the open area because he can use the space to his advantage. "},{"Title":"Promised more than it delivered","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just watched this movie last night on DVD. I was super charged up to see it and at the end felt enormously let down. Jet Li kicked butt as usual and it was nice to see Delroy Lindo doing something a little lighter than usual but Jason Statham both sucked and blowed (if that is at all possible). The boy was fabulous in Snatch, what was with the tremendously awful American accent and face pulling? Statham needs to learn to act and not just re-act. SFX in the film were above the usual standard and some new stuff was being done but the whole affair still felt pretty sterile at it's conclusion. The ending seemed rushed and tacked on. All in all - disappointing "},{"Title":"Simple Martial Arts Movie","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The title of this movie turned me off originally, especially with 'The Matrix' and its 'The One'.  The trailer further turned me off by calling it a different reality than our own.  I expected it to be a VR knockoff kind of movie.One commenter in particular, Erik Harris, caught my eye, and I think a few things need to be said.First, explaining the story 'for the single-digit-IQ portion of the audience' right off the bat served it's purpose.  It took the science and moved it to the side, it explained the villain's purpose and moved it to the side, and it explained the hero's purpose and moved it to the side.  What this did was leave the movie open for what it was created as a kung fu flick.  It's not a mystery, it's not a sci-fi thriller.  It's a martial arts movie with a science fiction theme.  Only about 30 seconds of the movie was spent explaining the science, and that only covered a variation of the curved space theory.Second, 'inconsistent, poorly thought out, and poorly acted' is an example of 'three strikes and you're out!'  Inconsistent would mean that it contained contradictions, which I do not see, seeing as how the plot is fairly simple and it sticks to that premise, and you did not elaborate on it, either.  Poorly thought out can mean any number of things, but I'm assuming that you're saying that the plot was poorly thought out.  In this case, seeing as how simple the plot is, the movie would have to be absolutely horrible for it to be poorly thought out.  Did it capitalize on 'The Matrix'?  You bet.  Poorly thought out?  No, just unoriginal.  You finish the trio by saying 'poorly acted' and further elaborate by saying that Li cannot play a bad guy well at all.  If he were to be portrayed as evil, then you're right, he simply doesn't do it, but the fact is, he's not playing an evil villain.  The villain here is working toward a goal.  Much like someone making paper dolls, the goal is to make the right cuts so that when the paper is unfolded, you get dolls.  In this case, the same is true, the villain is trying to become a God, and that's his goal.  If he has to make a few cuts along the way, that's just the price.  He's not a murderer, as he puts it 'How can I be a murderer if I'm just killing myself?'Third, you say 'Even the action scenes weren't that good.'  It's apparent you are neither a Jet Li fan, nor a fan of martial arts.  Jet Li is one of the few martial artists who can switch between a 'hard' style and a 'soft' style and look good doing both of them, not even Jackie Chan can make that claim.  The fighting scenes were well cut, making it appear as if he really is fighting himself.  Normally I'm not a fan of the 'twin' type movies as they can never do it right, but the camera angles and excellent editing of this movie really made it believable.  Sure portions of the action was blurred to the point of not being able to see it, but that was obviously intentional, considering where and when it was done.In summary, you overthought this movie.  It requires no thought to watch it, as the design of the movie is to entertain with martial arts.  All the rest is merely a prop for that simple premise. "},{"Title":"Gimicky","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One takes an intriguing, if not inspired premise (multiple parallel universes being a staple of science fiction almost as long as the genre has been around) and combines it with Jet Li's current marketability at the American box office and video rental/retail industry to create what should have been a sure-fire hit.Unfortunately the movie falls far short of what it might have been. The plot, what there is of it, fails to rise above the level of comic book-style story telling, and depends more on special effects and wires than it does on engaging characterization and clever plot development.In the end, the film is predictable as it is disappointing. It ought to satisfy fans of Mortal Kombat or perhaps X-Men (which was satisfying in it's own way, if not exactly classic film making), and die-hard fans of Jet Li, but all others might better spend their time and money on Li's other recent release, Kiss of the Dragon. "},{"Title":"A decent Enough film...","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Since the success of The Matrix and its special effects, it was obvious that wannabe Matrix's would flow onto our cinema screens thereafter. Before seeing this movie i was wary of how it was going to use the special effects made famous by The Matrix and still stand on its own two feet as an action/sci-fi flik, but it does and is very enjoyable to watch. I'm becoming more of a Jet Li fan with every movie of his i watch...Watch it and try not to look at it as a matrix rip-off and you might enjoy it... "},{"Title":"great sci-fi action","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer, I thought Poor Mr. Li, he's getting abused in the states! But then I saw the movie, and while the plot is kindda lacking, it was a great one! The fightscenes are mindblowing, if matrixy (and that IS a good thing!)and Jet Li is awesome in every scene. He should get more bad-guy roles, although he does need a little more languagecoaching (accented english always makes the acting seem strained...) It was also great seeing Jason Statham in a good role (Ghosts of Mars was absolutely horrible, but Snatch was great!!!)The only thing that's really (REALLY) bad, is the scene were bad Li beats up a couple of cops with two motorcycles. The CGI for that sequence was just BAD!!!So to sum up If you like Jet Li and the Matrix, you'll love this movie. I know I did! "},{"Title":"Well done, funny, action.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What can be better in a martial arts movie than Jet Li? TWO Jet Lis fighting eachother! It had some really inventive choreographies in the action scenes, and with a sense of humour! Like the bad Jet Li playing baseball with cops using a police motorcycle in each hand as bats! The effects were great too, and sometimes they reminded me of Shaolin Soccer. It also looked very nasty when they travelled between dimensions, and very painful to them as well. A funny part was that the dimensions that were very close to eachother had very similar events and relationships. They also had some funny jokes about that (pay attention to the presidents on TV). The climax fight sequence was very pretty with sparkles from machinery raining on them. The music was very dynamic; a good blend of orchestra film music and metal. In such a movie there is no point in dissecting it for deeper meaning. That is simply not the point. Relax and have fun. "},{"Title":"deserves a '9' and doin fine","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Who ever says this movie has no plot is slow in the head. When me and my friend went to see this movie(opening night) and heard the beginning plot we both looked at each other and said it is the greatest plot of all time. Not every movie needs to go on and on and try to explain whats goin on just becuz there are a few people who are to slow to understand the greatness and simplicity of this movie. The fight seens couldn't be much better. I highly recomend this movie. "},{"Title":"Jet Li's best American movie to date.","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For the simple reason that all his other American movies were creative wastelands, and just a pale shadow of his HK movies. At least with 'The One', 'The Matrix' special effects were supercool, and Jet got to fight the one guy skilful enough to take him on himself! Even though 'The One' still doesn't come near the heights of 'Fist of Legend'(his best by far, and directed by the same man who did 'The One') or 'Tai-Chi Master', it was enjoyable nonetheless. My only gripe was that there wasn't enough Matrix style fighting to fully satisfy.  "},{"Title":"attention imdb staff","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  there is no link to the one in a title search. this 4 line minimum is a pain as scrolling the #1 isn't enough to make four lines. while i'm writing to the staff, there isn't a login link on your homepage. (i'm trying to get my password logged into gator and can't get the logon prompt. there... four lines. "}{"Title":"The One - Without Parallel","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Never let it be said that a well developed plot is necessary to make a good movie. The One has a plot line that is so thin, you can see through it into another parallel universe. However, suspend disbelief and forget crafted dialogue, the very well made fight scenes are all we need. You can't complain really, Jet Li does what Jet Li does best - intricate, forceful martial arts (here against himself, twice the fun). The supporting cast ... well, supports, and then there's those fight scenes. Did I mention the fight scenes? I rate this 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not as good as The Matrix. But it comes close.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li plays good and evil. What a ride this movie was. Jet Li plays Gabe a sheriff's deputy who soon discovers his evil double from another universe has come to kill him. And every time he kills a double of himself. He gets there strength and speed. Its up to Gabe to defeat this evil double before its to late. A better film then Romeo Must Die. Jet Li plays good and evil perfectly. Its a cross between The Matrix, Highlander, and Sliders. This movie got to the point. Thats why it was not as long The Matrix. But it was still good.  "},{"Title":"Suspend belief of reality...","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A very interesting film. Jet Li is entertaining with his skill and show of martial arts, and the story lays itself together nicely. Since it is based between parallel universes, there are some neat little gimmicks to look out for. You will have to suspend belief of reality every now and then, but other than that, is was a good movie. "},{"Title":"...A moderate Action Movie, but nothing else.","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ahh Mr Li. I see that you have been thrown into another bad american action flick. What a waste, Jet Li is undeniably one of the best martial artists on film today. His style and grace having been perfected over the course of 25 odd years now and yet hes reduced to making Jean Claude/ Steven Seagal type movies. Watch any of his HK flicks and you can see that he literally wipes the floor on American Martial Art actors. And yet, aside from Lethal Weapon 4 Jet Li's US credits are pretty dire. From The Master to Kiss of the Dragon. The problem seems to me to be in Mr Li's use of 3rd rate or first time directors. With The One I was hoping that this would be different. James Wongs Final Destination was one of the better teen horror flicks of the last few years and I had at least moderate hopes for this one... Unfortunately this movie ends up being worse than KoD. Jet Li as usual gives a good performance but the rest of the acting (Particularly the extremely disappointing Jason Statham, why he wasn't allowed to use his true accent is beyond me) and script just lets it all down. As a Sci-Fi flick this is pretty simple and even non-existant. As a Martial arts flick its pretty bad, true, the director does allow us to see most of the fighting however when theres only one fight scene a martial arts flick that doesn't make nor does it help that this movie is soooo short. Maybe there was a problem with the producers? Anyhoo, as an action flick its ok. The effects were B Grade-ish but fine for the movie. (And if someone else mentions that the Bullet scene was stolen from The Matrx I'll go MAD! The bullet scene in the Matrix was not a first off. The technology had been used for years in advertising and the direction was copied straight from a John Woo or Ringo Lam film, its even mentioned on the DVD.) I guess that pretty much sums it up. Only watch this movie if you want a no-brainer action movie otherwise look elsewhere. As for me, I'm just going to wait for Jet Li in Hero.  "},{"Title":"suspend belief of reality...","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie during the holidays and I have this to say. It was quite entertaining, and well worth a rent, or purchase for that matter. The thing is, you have to be really open to this genre to really appreciate this movie. And, you will have to suspend belief of reality to accept it. Overall, a good movie, well worth it. "},{"Title":"better than the last one","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I thought that the movie was quiet good.I saw it for the first time last week and i have seen it now 3 times.His last movie was very disappointing but The One made up for the last few of his movies.It had a good story line and the martial arts were quiet exciting. I give is a 7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The good, the bad and the confusing! (slight spoiler!)","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, the opening few minutes of this film confused me slightly, but dont worry, it all works itself out!  Its a good storyline, based around a ex police officer, Yulaw (Jet Li), who lives in one of over a hundred parallel universes similar to our own.  The background behind the story is that in his line of duty, he has to face one of his 'equals' and ends up killing him and realises that the energy from the dead 'equal' has transferred to him, and all the other versions of him, making them stronger.  He then sets about killing all of his 'equals' to make himself the last surviving version of himself, and be almost invincible. The film starts as the penultimate 'equal' is in jail and he gets killed, which means Yulaw only needs to jump to one more universe to finish his task, enter Li's third character, Gabe.  Two multiverse agents, delroy lindo and jason statham, are out to protect Gabe and bring down Yulaw, Gabe, at first is a bit unsuspecting of his power, but certainly gets used to it very quickly!! Not wanting to give away the whole story, Jet Li turns in a good performance, again putting him one step further to becoming the new generations Jackie Chan, delroy lindo is his usual average self and Jason statham puts in a reasonable performance, but be warned Lock Stock and Snatch fans, he sports one of the worst US accents since Keanu tried to do English in Bram stokers Dracula!! Its an action packed film with a favour or two being owed to the Matrix, stunts and effects wise, but they use them well.  You will get lost once or twice along the way, but you'll figure it out.In all, good stuff, short, but good. good effects and fans of Li's previous stuff should love it! But overall 7 out of 10 is fair i'd say!! "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok here it is... If you liked The Matrix...and Hardcore martial arts. You will love this movie. You can't go into this hopeing for a pratical movie. It is far from it.I love superhuman movies. Superman, X-men stuff like that. Jet-li is awesome in The one. His speed alone is faster than most normal people. Go see it now. The graphics and sound the best. "},{"Title":"The One movie that delivers.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for the movie, I had to see it. When I looked for the times it was showing I saw the length was 91 minutes. I thought to myself, How can a movie this good be so short? The answer make it like this one.The plot of the movie was this there are many dimensions, and when you travel to another dimension and kill the you in that dimension you grow stronger. One evil Jet Li is doing this, and the last good Jet Li must stop evil Jet Li before he kills him. Too simplistic for ya? Then see another movie.The movie is a strait action film, not a solid plot, no character development, but it dosen't need it because it is an ACTION film.And reading the reviews on this site it seems that people believe that the bullet time special effect that was introduced in The Matrix, cannot be used in other films. Well no one on The Matrix staff bought the exclusive rights to use bullet time so all who don't like it, shove off. The One uses bullet time and does it better than The Matrix.The other complaint on this site is of Jet Li himself, that he dosen't do decent martial arts in this film. Well, he doesn't have to, he is an ACTION star, therefore he can do gun fighting (like he has in a lot of his Hong Kong films, see Meltdown) or martial arts, or any of the regular action star stuff. Think of him as the new better Van Damme.The last thing to point out is that in every Jet Li movie there is a Daaaamn! point, in which Jet hits a move so brutal you just go Daaaaamn!. This Jet Li movie has more Daaaamn! points than any of his other movies.All in all if you are looking for a simple, short, ACTION flick (with some martial arts thrown in) The One is the one you wanna see. "},{"Title":"Mediocre at best","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was excited about The One, mainly because I am always excited about Jet Li (god, what a name, can I say it in Mandarin please? Li Lian Jie. That's better). I have heard my cousins say it sucks, though not in so many words but the meaning's there, and many have been calling it a Matrix rip-off. Sounds like the movie to avoid like the plague, right? I would, under normal circumstances, but it's a Li Lian Jie movie. Because of that, I had to see it.I think I expected way too much out of it. The trailer and TV spots made it look much more thrilling than it really is, and I actually bought it. Pretty stupid, considering the fact that I didn't like Li's previous two Hollywood movies. I'll give The One this much it's definitely better than Romeo Must Die and Kiss of the Dragon added together. But it's still quite disappointing, for a Li fan who loves his Hong Kong films.The One is definitely too short. If its runtime extended by about ten minutes, then the movie wouldn't feel so rushed. I think the film-makers were too ambitious to think that an idea as complex as it is simple as this one can be completely satisfied and explained in 80 minutes, especially since one has to deduct time for fight sequences and all that. Its runtime contributes to the half-bakedness feel of its plot, which, needless to say, isn't a good thing. But it's an entertaining little action movie, and once again, Jet Li kicked butt (he always does). Great special effects (but then, for a movie like this, if the effects sucked, then it's likely that the producers suffered from temporary brain damage) and fight scenes, but is anyone surprised? It *is* Jet Li after all.I thought Li did a pretty good job playing the bad guy and the good guy. I really don't care what anyone else says; he can act. He may not be a very versatile actor, but he can pull it off without looking stupid. I think he accomplished that in this movie. Can't remember the rest of the cast, so I wouldn't bother. I thought the music really sucked though. The metal ones were too distracting and I used to like the stuff, but it's got so repetitive that you can't tell one metal band from another. So sitting through the scenes with metal music was hell for me. But hey, I did have Jet Li to drool over. And speaking of whom, I'm anticipating his upcoming movie Hero, directed by Zhang Yimou (who shares my surname). Finally, a new Li movie in Mandarin. I must be in heaven.  "}{"Title":"I haven't even seen the movie and I know it sucks.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   These directors do not have much talent in the movie industry. It was total matrix wanna-be. You should definitely be ashamed of yourself. If you thought you could be the Matrix you're dead wrong, because this is no Matrix. If you look at it's ratings you could tell that it's no Matrix. The One rating 5.4 stars. The Matrix 8.5. Do you see a difference? I certainly do. I'll probably see the movie anyway just see how much of a rip off it is of the Matrix. P.S. The only thing in this world that can do Matrix moves are it's sequels. Never do the dodge bullet scene. It just shows that you don't have your own imagination. "},{"Title":"Waste of time and money","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wish I had time to go on about how bad this movie was, but I am pressed for time.  I'll make it short and sweet The action, although well done, did not require Jet Li's talent - Julia Roberts could have made this movie with all of effects they used. The plot was simply ridiculous - it seems they tried to find a way to explain why Jet Li would/could fight himself (because it would look cool) and failed miserably.  The average Joe on the street could fart out a better story. The acting was just plain terrible.Don't waste any money on this movie - don't even rent it.  If they show it on an airplane, take a nap. Go see Kiss of the Dragon, Li's action movie which came out in July 2001. KotD was really amazing, with spectacular scenes, a great ending, and high quality everything throughout.This movie is what you get when producers have an interesting concept, but nothing to back it up. "},{"Title":"Very confusing","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very confusing. At the beginning, the story is ok but near the middle, the plot is getting weaker and weaker.A bunch of well known stars and new actor/actress. They all act perfectly. Really enjoy the effects and the action.Totally entertaining. "},{"Title":"A Camp Classic","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Never since Van Damme's howler Knock Off, has there been a film that truly was so bad that it turned to be a must-see.  The One is unintentionally hilarious with the greatest of ease.  It is jam-packed with hilarious performances and sequences that has to be seen to be believed.  It is worth the price of admission just to see Jason Statham's brilliantly ingenious performance.  The most laughable accent since Keanu Reeves' in Bram Stoker's Dracula.  His ultra-animated facial expressions would put Jim Carrey to shame.  This film also contains my favorite one-liner of all time Your orders are bullsh*it!  It is towards the end of the film, right before the bad Jet Li is on the chair.  Statham's delivery of this line is pure genius.  You have to see it, to know what I'm talking about.  Bring a group of friends.  The One is a masterpiece of an atrocity!  "},{"Title":"Get Down With Your Bad Self","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's a peculiar feature of life as an action hero that, every once in a while, you gotta kick your own keister.  Many is the action movie that has its hero teaming up with or fighting against a carbon copy of himself, played by himself, and invariably leading to an extremely confusing climactic battle.  It happens in all kinds of movies for all kinds of reasons, though it seems more likely to happen to you if you parlayed your martial-arts fame into a movie career.  Jackie Chan did it in Twin Dragons and Jean-Claude Van Damme has played any number of twin brothers separated at birth, etc. (I forget exactly how many, as I tend to forget most things about Van Damme if I can help it).  Even Christopher Reeve got down, dirty, and Jungian in a junkyard in Superman III.  The undisputed king of this sort of thing, however, is Arnold Schwarzenegger, who has played opposite himself at various times in Total Recall, The 6th Day and Last Action Hero.  Schwarzenegger is the best at this particular game, since he tends to play it for laughs, cannily aware that the cosmic unlikelihood of there being two guys like Arnie in the same physical plane is inherently funny. The One is Jet Li's turn in the duality saddle, and as my sister pointed out when she saw the preview, this at least solves the problem of finding an actor capable of going a couple of rounds with Jet Li.  Interestingly, the movie was apparently intended as a vehicle for wrestling star The Rock, but when he declined in favor of The Scorpion King it was offered to Li.The conceit behind this movie, as we are informed during the opening credits by the kind of stentorian narration usually found in shows like In Search Of..., is that our universe actually consists of numerous parallel dimensions, some close to ours, some completely different and many unaware that this state of affairs even exists.  The whole shebang is overseen by the Multi Verse Agency, a sort of cross between the FBI and the Interstate Commerce Commission, which regulates who can go between worlds and when. The problem arises when a rogue MVA agent (Li) discovers after he is forced to kill an alternate self in self-defense while on assignment (one wonders if his family sued him on behalf of himself), that he becomes much stronger. Y'see, each time you die in another dimension, your power is evenly distributed among the yous that remain, and in the end, there can be only - oh, you know.  Anyway, Evil Jet begins to use his black-market dimension-jumper to hop around committing multiple suicide (as it were), in hopes that he will be the last Jet left, and in so doing, gain the power of a god.  The MVA, concerned that this kind of dimensional paradox could destroy all reality as we know it (no one really knows; more on this in a minute) dispatches a pair of agents to stop him (you'd think in such an emergency they'd send more guys, but never mind) from killing his last self (Li, again).  This unfortunate is an LA County Sheriff's deputy (in our reality, natch) who can't figure out why all of a sudden he is faster than a speeding bullet and all the rest of it.Now, here is where the thinness of the plot begins to intrude on the audience's placidity.  It stands to reason, we think, that sooner or later, if there are numerous copies of you throughout the multiverse, there would always be one that was the last to die eventually, and this has been the case throughout history, so why WOULDN'T they know what happens?  Also, if every time you die you get stronger (try to keep up with me here) people would get stronger and faster as they got older because more of themselves would have died in other universes, only they probably wouldn't die very often, since they were getting stronger like everybody else.  The Olympics would be full of 80-year-old beneficiaries of bus accidents in distant universes.  My head is starting to hurt.  I guess if you merely accept at the outset that none of this makes any sense at all, you're better off.Jet Li is not a bad actor, but like many actors not native to English, he has a restricted range when acting in his adopted language.  His best performance in an American movie was Lethal Weapon 4, which he stole handily with a reptilian smile and a few subtitles.  He is fairly convincing as Good Jet, an affable sort of guy who likes his job, loves his wife, and can't figure out what's going on (the audience can relate).  As the cocky, wisecracking Evil Jet, he sounds stiff, with an affected sneer more than a genuine sense of a man comfortable in his own badness.  The supporting cast of Good Jet's cop buddies and concerned wife (Carla Gugino) are serviceable but unremarkable.  As the MVA agents tailing Evil Jet, Jason Statham and Delroy Lindo have some decent byplay, but they aren't Gibson and Glover by any stretch.  And the movie never does explain where they get the muscle car they drive through a couple of different worlds (some kind of interdimensional rental agency?  Imagine the return fees.)The movie has some style and imagination early on, having particular fun with the idea of parallel and slightly different universes.  We see the same scene in a couple of different versions, with the same person occupying a different role, in one universe a cop, in another a prisoner (and I have to admire a movie that can differentiate between the LAPD and the Sheriff's Department).  Gugino is in one universe a sweet veterinarian, in another a spike-heeled femme fatale.  There is also a funny moment during Evil Jet's early sentencing, where we see a slide show of his 200-odd victims, played by Jet Li in a series of wigs in front of different blue-screen backgrounds. Unfortunately, the imaginative possibilities of parallel universes are ignored except for a few throwaway gags, in favor of showing Evil Jet using a pair of police motorcycles as maracas.  Of course, since the whole thing doesn't make any sense in the first place, perhaps this is for the best.The stunts are impressive, of course, and we get some cool slow-mo effects of the super-fast Jet kicking the hell out of gangs of extras as they arc away like leaves in the wind.  The inevitable final confrontation is a little underwhelming, and even though one of the Jets has the courtesy to wear a different shirt, it's difficult to tell exactly who is whipping whom at any given moment.  Overall, the movie is so-so, interesting but sloppily constructed, though better than the aggressively lackluster Kiss of the Dragon.  Jet completists will go for it, as will moderately undemanding fans of sci-fi rear-kicking movies, but it doesn't achieve its potential.Still, if you see this movie, be sure to stay until the end to witness one of the most head-scratchingly superfluous credits of the year, as we are informed that The One was Filmed on location in Los Angeles, CA.  You don't say. "},{"Title":"Bit less than average","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of movie where you feel a small bite of the movie ticket + smuggled in food to the theater. (I happened to have a Burger King whopper, fries, and a couple cans of coke. Cold nights mean thicker jackets making this easier to do.) It's the kind of movie where you say wish I'd seen it in a matinee and saved a few bucks after it's over.Here's the deal. Jet Li plays various types of himself*125. Apparently, in the uncountable infinite dimensions (a la many worlds interpretation of QM), there are 125 where the Li's share some sort of bond. You kill one, the energy gets spread to the others. Never mind that when the Li characters get old and start dying off, the other characters should feel a burst of energy. We all know this happens all the time, right?Oh, but who cares. Action stories are like porn stories, they just move you to the next fighting or f***ing scene respectively. But see, that's my problem, I thought the fights were hokey. Watch Fist of Legend, or My Father the Hero, or The Enforcer. The fights are much better there, as is the buildup to the fights. In The One, they become to Matrixy, and failed because it tried too hard. It also fails in the end where bad Li character fights good Li character (don't worry, it's not a spoiler. Anyone who can form a thought can see this coming. Why else would anyone concoct a 125 dimension dealie?) C'mon, there are other martial arts actors who can give a good show. The guy doesn't have to fight himself.Bottom line, the movie is average, and maybe a little less. You see it, you laugh a little, enjoy the action a little, but in the end feel disappointed and wondering if you could have spent the money beter. 5/10. Li should look back at the three movies I nameed above.-Mark "},{"Title":"Very well done but a rip off of the Matrix","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The action sequences were well thought out and well planned. The One had a good plot and was easy to follow but the similarities between the Matrix and The One are unmistakable. The scenes where Jet Li was dodging bullets and when he was running faster that everyone else made it seem like a sequel to the Matrix but it was not. The directors could have come up with a better idea than to rip off the Matrix of their own effects. "},{"Title":"I am Yulaw! I am nobody's bitch!","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  `The One' is very predictable and uses almost every action movie cliché in the book. And I loved it.Glen Morgan, James Wong, and Jet Li just wanted to make an action movie, that's all. They are guilty of that and nothing more. The action sequences were well done, the special effects were cool (love the transporter effect), and the use of parallel universes was interesting. And hey, Jet Li makes a really cool villain. (This movie also features the cat who usually jumps out from behind a piece of furniture and scares a jumpy cop and/or frightened teen-ager. That cat gets a lot of work&#133;)Gabriel Law's ending is pure 100% cornball au gratin, but the final fate of his evil twin more than makes up for it (It almost qualifies as a happy ending for that character).   "},{"Title":"Fun to watch, but a terrible script","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One almost goes into the Hong Kong tradition, it has great fighting and action scenes but the script is pure crap. Jet Li is not the greatest actor in the world but who cares the movie is fun to watch and that is what drove me to this film. "},{"Title":"Much better then I expected","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When it first came out I heard so many bad reviews from critics which led me to not see The One.  Then today we were going to see Spy Game but it was sold out, The One was the only movie that we didn't see.  So we said oh well let's see it anyways.  I was very happy with the movie and I have learned to not let the critics influence me anymore.In my opinion, most critics who bashed the movie were probably expecting deep dialogue or lessons about life or some touching moments or whatever, but see this movie isn't about this.  It's an action movie, if you want that other stuff then don't go see a Jet Li movie.  This movie was full of action and I found the plot very interesting.  My only complaint is that I thought the movie was short,  it could've been longer.  Anyways I suggest this movie to anyone who enjoys action, suspense, fights, etc.  From now I'll give any movie a shot and I will judge for myself and not let critics stop me!  8/10. "}{"Title":"The way super-men SHOULD fight.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One is a simple movie with a fairly predictable plot (with just a few twists to keep you happy). It will never be a great movie but it will make the rest of the movie industry take notice regarding how fight scenes can be done today. The Matrix changed the way most people see an F/X laden combat sequence, The One takes it to the next level. Warriors with super speed and the strength of a hundred men have always been badly done, sure they can bend bars and crush stone but in a Hollywood fight, why can't they really use that? In The One, they do. The bar has been raised. "},{"Title":"One, or None???","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A dangerous criminal whose serial crime is traveling to parallel universes and murdering parallel versions of himself.  After 123 hits, he arrives on Earth to slay his last surviving counterpart.  So that he can become the One, the only one remaining in the all the entire universes.  Incidentally, he gets stronger with every version of himself that he destroys, hence his motivation for doing so in the first place.Enters Jet Li, who plays 1) evil slayer of himselves from another universe, and 2) good guy version of himself of our universe.  Evil Li enters Earth, being pursued by 2 multiverse agents  (one of whom played by Delroy Lindo), to search and destroy the good Li.  This leads to a climatic showdown, in which the two Li's clashing to the death.`The One' had an impressive science fiction backdrop, as mentioned in the above paragraphs.  That changed after evil Li arrives on Earth, after which it becomes plain old action flick with a little makeover courtesy of `The Matrix'.  Evil Li does his impression of Keanu Reeves' Neo, from blinding fast movements against slow motion scenes to the displays of superhuman strength.  The sci-fi aspects of the plot take a back seat to Li's display of martial arts.We all know what to expect from Jet Li a lot of action and little of everything else.  He makes no attempt to set apart the parallel versions of his characters.  Although the early scenes in the movie show the differences in the series of events in every universe (Al Gore is the President of the United States in one alternate universe), it does not translate to Li's acting.  Even his characters' fighting styles showed no distinction between each other, despite his claims that they are.But what he does right, and does very well at (pay attention, van Damme!), is delivering solid galvanizing series of fight sequences.  And unlike most other action film actors, he does not have to strip off his top to do so. His lengthy battle with himself is one continuous rush of energy that never loses steam.  So we can't tell apart good Li from evil Li, but that is the point of it we aren't supposed to.  Just sit back and enjoy the battle, because there probably won't be another one like it, or one near as good as his.Sadly, this is all about Li.  The lacking in plot is accompanied by lacking in character developments.  Carla Gugino plays Li's wife TK who, aside from being a female presence, is just there.  Perhaps the writers, including writer/director James Wong, should do actual research for the right formulas to brew chemistry between a caucasian woman and a chinese man, because there obviously isn't any between Li and Gugino. (Side note WWF star The Rock was actually considered for Li's role, which could explain TK being caucasian.) Lindo could be better if he is not underutilized.  But the lack of screen time does not allow him to work his character deeper, affecting his overall performance.  The only possible exception is Funsch, played convincingly by Jason Statham.  The rest of the characters are thin.`The One' is not a bad film.  However, the lack of plot development particularly in the science fiction aspects leaves a sense of being cheated, because it has been promoted as such.  Surely there are many ways the idea of traveling across universes can be exploited on script.  But it never came to pass.  All we are left to contend with is just another Jet Li action flick. (Take a hint, Mr. Wong.  Learn from the Americans the How to's in writing interracial couples on film.)  In the end, this is not the One.Spellcaster's Level 4 "},{"Title":"Great action, lots of fun... better than The Matrix!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One is an alternate-universe sci-fi film that's full of action and humor. (In one scene, we know it's an alternate universe because President Bush is shown on TV announcing universal health care!)The plot actually makes sense (unlike the Matrix's twisted illogicalisms), and Jet Li plays both a bad guy and a good guy, both of whom are amazing fighters who have obtained super-human powers -- one on purpose, the other accidentally. The fight scenes are amazing, especially scenes where the two Jet Li's fight each other, each using a different style of martial arts.I don't want to go on for too long with this review other than to say that I thought this movie was fantastic, and I am NOT easy to please.Go see it! "},{"Title":"the matrix is hoakier! ask Xena, then ask Superman","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well well well... what is up with all of the reviews? Are you all hardcore Trekkies living in your parent's basement? Sure there are some plot holes in this movie, but no worse than The Matrix. I mean if some supercomputer wanted to drain all of one's energies... why recreate reality when you could just as easily make everyone rich and beautiful so that no-one would have any reason to want to leave the Matrix? Doesn't that strike any of you little Kianus as equally farfetched?I'll tell why there are only 124 Laws in the multiverse... because the movie could never be made if there were an infinite number... HELLO! One would need an infinite amount of time to complete the task of auto-elimination... duh. (watch the Simpson's episode with Lucy LAWless to get the point, ooh that's punny!) Besides, not every universe MUST contain Law. But to make the SFX (I mean story) work billions of Laws would have to be busy eliminating each other making the whole premise totally useless. If any of you were really up on quantum theory, you would be aware that other universes might not even follow the same physical LAWS as ours. (another pun for THE OTHER lol)As far as i'm concerned, The One is easier to believe. You are the source of your own chi(energy) as opposed to Kianu instantly becoming fluent in both Chinese and programming. Besides, The One pays hommage to the Matrix as Kianu was called the one and Jet Li was originally slated to be in the sequal. (small world huh?)This isn't really a film to be analyzed for continuity. It is simply a vehicle for the next step in special effects. I don't see anyone complaining about the glut of commercials that use the multi-camera matrix effect but alot of you consider The One to be derivative. Using that FLAWED LOGIC, I hereby declare every movie that uses computer animation to be derivative of Tron! Hey... if the Matrix couldn't make full use of altered laws of physics, The One did! I mean which is more impressive... running up a wall or knocking 4 people off their feet and then hitting them again before any of them can hit the ground? Sure that frozen Karate Kid crane kick looked pretty, but didn't take advantage of the speed possible in the matrix (by the way... dodging bullets had been done before)Are any of you naysayers going to complain when the Matrix rips The One off as Kianu hits multiple targets at super speed? I bet not. I hated the Matrix and saw The One 3 times and will buy it on DVD ASAP. I give all three viewings a 10 for a total of 30 escapist points. The rest of you should stick to NON-FICTION.p.s. The movie never claimed that Yu Law could become God... Yu Law did and look where it got him. "},{"Title":"A mix of Replicant, The Terminator, Highlander & The Matrix","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mix a bit of J.C. Van Damme's newest effort (Replicant) with special effects from the Matrix, then combine the plots of the Terminator movies with Highlander (there can be only one)and you've got The One!Jet Li's sure can fight & this time he's got a worthy opponent...himself!  I'm rating it 5 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Terminator I for our time","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Remember the first time you saw Terminator I? It may have struck you as a quantum amplification on the themes of an old episode of The Outer Limits (The particular episode Soldier comes to mind, obviously). The One takes Terminator and does the same thing to it that it did to The Outer Limits. --Which is to say it expands the earlier vehicles unmined or unturned implications in a totally unforeseen way, telescoping them into a truly mind expanding experience. The highest praise I can lay on The One may be to say its effects don't simply remain effects They become part of the way you will see physical reality/ possibility, and in that sense really ARE senses altering. Suffice to say The One harnesses CGI technology in total service of the story and high concept. If you prefer the Matrix to The One, I can only suppose that it is the Keanu Reeves Fan Club calling your name. (That film had a brilliant concept, inadequately fleshed out, delineated in a single brief, remarkably horrific scene, and the rest was like bad 50s SciFi with too much spoken exposition and some chumps in headphones at a headquarters console bogging down the proceedings again and again.) The One rates a very solid ten stars. See it with ear plugs. "},{"Title":"God gave us a gift wrapped in kungfu.  This is movie was inside.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Decent Story, Execellent Setup, and the most satisfying ending to a movie i've seen in a long long time.  CTHD fans, stay away.  Some may consider the Fighting/effects style matrix-esque, but like all good students it bested its master.  After seeing this movie, i signed up for Martial Arts classes. KungFu movie fans should know what i mean. "},{"Title":"Feels like another 'One'...","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...Crappy film that is. The film started with a voice over about the evolution of a parallel universe. Everytime a star explodes a wormhole to another universe is formed. I was reminded of an aging Marlon Brando explaining to Clark Kent that he was Superman. Jalil you are my son. You are from Krypton, a land far away... The over involved plot was basically a mixture of Keanu's 'The Matrix', Jean-Claude's 'Double Impact' and any film by Mel Brooks. The difference is Mel Brooks is TRYING to make us laugh.Jet Li plays a dual role. First he is antagonist, Yulaw, the mastermind behind a diabolical scheme to steal the life energies from all his parallel selves in the belief that by doing so he will become THE ONE. He also plays Gabriel, the good guy who is the last one that Yulaw needs to kill in order to steal the energy and become THE ONE.  Delroy Lindo plays an inter-universal sheriff who is trying to prevent Yulaw from becoming THE ONE. If you think the plot is tricky now, wait until you see it. Although, I wouldn't recommend it.This Matrix part 2 wanna be is a sad disappointment. There were too many rules. Too much to pay attention to. You almost need a pen and paper to take notes as you go along, just to make sure you are getting everything. While the fighting sequences were impressive, a martial arts master like Jet Li is expected to come with nothing less. It couldn't save the film. The graphics were great but as I've said before you don't get credit for keeping up with the times.I'm sure there are men in this world who don't require plot, and character development in a film. For those of you who need only high tech fighting scenes, you'll love it. For those of us who require more, save your money.  "},{"Title":"One Theory","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  THE ONE contains everything any lover of b-movies or 70s exploitation can want, at least within the context of the genres at hand. As any writer worth his salt can take a tired type of story and imbue it with a new angle, or original treatment, Jet Li manages to elevate the too-brief material at hand. Delroy Lindo is making a career out of reinventing genre characters (his turns in THE ONE and HEIST are excellent, and understated).Concerning the Multiverse Theory, my understanding of the alternate universes, and the impact of death (strength, speed, intelligence) on the surviving Others it's suggested by many who've seen the movie that the Multiverse Theory doesn't stand up, that with EVERY death in an alternative world, this energy is dispersed until the last remaining Self would become the superhuman One, the culmination of all the energies. Meaning you'd have invalid old men, the last of the alternate Selves, in nursing homes with the strength of 100-plus men, ect. However, Yulaw (ONE's villain) is creating an abnormal, UNNATURAL dispersal of this energy by murdering his alternative selves. He's initiating a break in the space-time continuium that is causing, for whatever b-movie reason, the immediate multiplication of strength. There's nothing in THE ONE which suggests that a natural dispersion of the Energy, from the natural flow of each relative timeline (how each version of Yulaw will die in each different world) will cause the Yulaw Effect, or the superhuman abilities. This is glitch in the Multiverse, not in the storyline, and even the Multiverse Agents don't know why it happens, or the eventual outcome, if and when what is not supposed to occur DOES occur, and Yulaw manages to become the last remaining being containing all those life forces. This is a CRIMINAL act, as well as scientific heresy, at least in b-movie terms.Though THE ONE probably shouldn't be studied so closely, it seems that this faulty Multiverse logic is part of the reason some reviewers take the movie apart. Also, it's the fault of the moviemakers for not making it clear. Of course, they probably had no idea anyone would care, when you've got the spectacle of Jet Li fighting Jet Li, and motorcycle cop-swatting, and such. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!! If you could only see one action movie this year, this is The One!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ever since seeing Lethal Weapon 4, I have been hooked on Jet Li. His fight scenes, and martial arts style are fantastic, and he brings that to The One.Li plays Gabe, a Los Angeles sheriff's deputy whose life is about to change. It seems that there is not only one universe, but a multi-verse, where everybody has an exact double. It is possible to travel through the multi-verses, however, they are heavily patroled by a special police force. One of Gabe's twins, has been travelling through the multi-verse killing off all of his doubles. As one dies off, the powers of that one are divided among the remaining. Gabe is the last, and now the evil Gabe is out to get him.The story sounds like it could easily fit into the Highlander series, however the movie is really great. From the Matrix-like special effects, to the martial arts fight scenes, it's non-stop action for the full 83 (pathetic---too short!!) minutes that this movie runs.The only complaint about this movie is the length. They could have made it alot more interesting if they went into a little bit more depth with the characters. We don't get to find out anything about our hero or any of the other stars.Despite this minor flaw, this film is definately the best new action movie of the year. If you are a fan of science fiction and action, definately check out The One. I am sure that you will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Pure escapism, so leave reality at the door.","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After you leave reality at the door, don't think about the plot too much, don't expect huge insight on the characters, and don't think about the poor acting.  Instead, enjoy the fighting and special effects.  I can see that Jet Li is a very talented martial artist, however this isn't the film that shows his abilities.  He gets a ton of help from the Matrix-like computer special effects.  I found some of the slow-motion effects to be somewhat jerky when switching speeds, but the Li-to-Li showdown was seemless, from an effects point of view.I was able to catch on quickly to what was going on, but then the characters took it upon themselves to explain it to me anyway.  This worked in the Matrix, but I don't think it was necessary here.A great escape film, to forget your worries for an hour and a half.  Enjoy the constant action with the decent, but heavy, soundtrack.  I did. "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This reminds me of the first Terminater movie.  A cast that is better than needs to be, and special effects that are not unique but are used in a unique way.  And most importantly, a cool Science Fiction plot that we have seen less than a million times.    I seriously want to recommend this to those viewers who experienced The Terminater as something NEW back in the day...Remember how you were impressed with Arnold being not that stupid, and with the level of action being higher than you had ever seen?  There had been plenty of shootouts in movies before that, but never one on top of another on top of another and then a car chase and then more FRIGGIN BULLETS!  This movie displays the same creativity to me, a cool plot plus mucho way cool action=One cool movie in my book. "},{"Title":"really good and not 1 similarity to this and the matrix other than the special effects","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *******SPOILERS*******DONT READ PAST THE FIRST SENTANCE IF YOU WANT TO SEE THIS MOVIE BADLY                                                    Going in to this movie i had a good idea about what it was about seeing long previews...and my friend told me the ending but that din't matter because when i saw it neither of the 2 survivors die. which i thought was a nice and unique ending compared to what the story is about. story easy enough, you don't have to think it's all nice and basic so you can enjoy the action which is plentyful.There is not a universe nor just one of us. There is a multiverse and 125 universes which means 125 other you and me's. Now, Yulaw which is the evil Jet Li, wants to kill all other 124 of himself so that he can become the one and be powerful. Yes i know this story has been told many times before. and he is able to kill 123 jet li's which leaves one left gabriel which is in the universe of the united states (how original since im a canadian boy) since there is 124 other distant planets and the final 'jet li' is on earth. now there are cops chasing him around these universes trying to catch him and put him away. they do manage to arrest him but sneaks away by a certain girl who i will mention later. he manages to escape and track down gabriel. the final jet li that he must destroy before becoming the one. and that certain girl i mentioned is gabriel's wife on the earth universe who eventually dies. so meyhem starts and gabe learns that when Yulaw kills one of himself, the strenght of that person is divided to the other people of that one person of the different 124 universes which is where the matrix confusion comes in.as i said in my title there is only special effects putting similarities to the matrix and the one. now gabe can't jump off of walls but he can just do things faster then in the matrix you can. exampleyulaw is seen running 50 k's per hour at the very beginning of the movie. that is when u first get a taste of the action that never comes up short. it starts you off right away to the hospital to the climatic scene where the two jet li's battle it out to the finish and are sucked in to the core of the multiverse. its like a police station to all of the universes. gabe is sent to a different universe where he meets his former wife after being shot and fall in love just like how they did in the other universe. that scene is kind of like back to the future. where yulaw is sent to something along the lines of a jail where these monsters take him on but the very last scene is where he beats them and credits come on.i fairly enjoyed it. anybody should give this movie a try. if you liked the matrix you will like this. it rox. 7/10 "},{"Title":"pure unadulterated fun","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One is probably the best action movie to watch in the last quarter of this year. The plot is simple and easy to understand so the audience will not be focused on questions about the film, they're focused on the action.Although I don't really like seeing Jet Li fighting with the use of digital effects because I don't want to see a very robotic Jet Li, the digital effects used in the movie didn't upstage his true form and talent. Jet Li is still amazing, and he could've done most of those fight scenes without the help of digital effects technology.The movie has heart, even though other people say its hardcore action, and the emotional factor has been contributed by Carla Gugino (who plays Li's wife in the movie), and Jet Li (the good Jet Li) himself. I must say Jet Li has grown to be a better actor to, besides being a martial arts master, and I conclude that in the future, he will be one most bankable Asian actors in Hollywood.All in all, I give the movie a perfect 10. Great acting, very simple yet exciting plot, clean and graceful fight scenes... a martial arts movie fan wouldn't want to miss this. "},{"Title":"Cool despite it's flaws.","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie obviously has many flaws, but that didn't stop me from seeing it twice and thinking it was very very cool. The plot is mediocre, and that one guy was such a bad actor (I don't know his name, but I bet you can guess who it is, and no not Jet Li). The most comical line in the movie is when Yulaw says I am Yulaw! I am nobodies bitch!, I laughed so hard at that. "},{"Title":"'The One' is not the one...","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  No matter how ambitious and how intricately thought out &#145;The One' is, I still cannot find myself appreciating this wasted attempt at a futuristic action flick. Somewhere in the midst of this action/special effects extravaganza lies a muddled plot dealing with parallel universes that while seemingly brilliant on paper, lacks the ingredients for a true romper action flick. Jet Li stars as 123 different Jet Li characters that lie throughout the world. Allow me to explain, our world is connected to other parallel universes that each have someone that is we &#150; only in a different context that leads a different life. In this film, our antagonist (Jet Li) pursues the protagonist (Jet Li) in each different world killing off each individual Jet Li characters in order to gain all this power distributed throughout the universe. Confused. Don't be? The plot takes a seat not in the backseat, but in the trunk. That is how irrelevant it is to the film, as &#145;The One' is crammed with special effects, shootouts and action sequences that may leave some in awe at the sequences, and others in awe at the stupidity of pop-culture references and the hard-rock soundtrack that does nothing than make this film louder than it already is. Director James Wong surprised many with the teen thriller  &#145;Final Destination' that proved to be an exciting and unpredictable little thrill. Unfortunately, these characteristics cannot be applied to this failure of his newest film. I must note that while I admire James Wong for attempting the impossible &#150; which is to make Jet Li fight Jet Li; I must question his vision during the writing process in which he and his writing partner Glen Morgan were solely responsible for. After opening the film with a 20 minute action sequence divided over three set pieces, this film continues its' high energy crash course through virtually nothing. Our characters are underdeveloped, our story is inexplicably non-relevant and our action pieces are not handled with a crafted eye. While many will call &#145;The One' pure escapist fun, I know this film could have been better. Many will defend this film, as simply an action flick with no premise, yet it had the potential at being so much more, yet was not. Points to analyze - first of all its' predictability.  Director James Wong makes the educated viewer anticipate crucial plot events a mile away with the involvement in a love story sub-plot that is disgustingly ambivalent.Furthermore, while Carla Gugino is a beautiful woman, it somehow demotes this film from its' apparent A-List status. Educated viewers will recognize Carla Gugino as always appearing in &#145;A' films that look and feel like cheap &#145;B'-films (Snake Eyes, Spy Kids). She stars as Li's wife who after a horrible event forces him to conquer his good guy approach to humanity and raise some hell. Furthermore, Snatch's Jason Statham co-stars as Funsch, a multiuniverse officer who turns in a truly wretched performance. And Delroy Lindo turns in another repetitive and monotonous performance as Funsch's superior. In addition to the film's poor craftsmanship, the casting also serves as a detriment. The assembly of the film is probably merely an excuse for inserting &#145;Matrix-style' snippets into an action film that aims to make this film classier than it really is. Unfortunately though, it makes the film seem as homage to the style the Wachowski brothers made famous.This is all fine and dandy if a viewer simply expects an 87 minute action extravaganza, yet this film suffers from its;' own inability to live up to its; own expectations. What is the point of pure non-stop action if it all is worth nothing?  Some films have redeemed themselves from a poor plot with a great style, yet this film has no style and no plot. A lethal combination in any film. Certainly the director cannot be pleased with this big budget, low-level action film that ultimately disappoints on many fronts, leaving many viewers knowing that &#145;The One' is not the one.Giancarlo's Rating *1/2 "},{"Title":"What a disappointment...","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are lots of bad movies. Heck there are lots of bad movies made in a single year.This is one of them.But it's one of those rare one that could and SHOULD have been really good.The premise had everything going for it. It was fresh (a bit Highlander-esque, but still with enough spin), it had huge potential for character development, plot twists, use of different universes. You have a very talented cast, writers who have made some great entertainment in their past.All the ingredients were there.But it didn't get baked long enough I guess. This movie is so rushed, that it falls apart after 15 minutes. You don't buy anyone's characters, relationships, conflicts, whatever. The suspense is non-existant. The acting is forced, and especially bad from Li who *is* a great actor.I was saddened the most thinking of the plot we could have seen. The different dimensions visited, the 'our world' Jet Li realizing his powers slowly as they grow (in this film, it's passingly mentioned by his wife before he has to fight his alter ego...dumb).And worse yet the action.When we get to the final showdown, which takes no time at all in this flick, our super-powered heros are thumping each other slow as hell. I know Jet can movie faster than this without camera effects, but it seems a lot of the time, that they forgot to speed up the film for effect or something.At any rate, as a Jet Li fan, a martial arts fan, a sci-fi fan, and just plain movie fan... on ALL those levels, I left The One disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good action. Easy on story.","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a fun movie. The mixing of martial arts and special effects were amazing. They really did put the Matrix to shame. It's been a long time since I've watched a movie and said Holly cow! I didn't think he could do that!.While the story was very light it didn't bore you. It made a beautiful backdrop for the action. There are too many film out there were the action is the focus, but the story detracts from it. The One's story was nice and simple.The soundtrack was amazing. For hard rock fans it's a dream come true. It's nice to see a soundtrack in a film like this move away from the techno and rap themes that have been so prominent in movies like this.For action fans it's a must see.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining B movie but weak story","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was not disappointed in this movie because I didn't expect great acting. This is an entertaining B movie.  However, with better writing, more humor and more screen time for fine actors such James Morrison this movie could have been a great B movie.The special effects and action scenes just aren't good enough to make this movie.The lack of logic at the heart of the movie undermines it.  How come I don't feel stronger as I age and the other me's die off?  At some point, someone is the one--and some people are one of a kind.Ann "},{"Title":"The One to Avoid, unless...","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Although The One is total crap, I found it entertaining nonetheless. Basically, I went in to see a lot of cool fighting and SFX and that's exactly what I got. But I must admit, that after leaving the theatre, my higher brain functions kicked in. And all I could think about was how they pitifully wasted a good nucleus of a story. The director/writer/producer had lots of SFX, an intriguing Sci-Fi premise, DeRoy Lindo and the action star Jet Li. All they had to do was write a decent script. That's all. And this film truly could have been the one. (I apologize for that, I just couldn't help myself.) Instead, everything we learn about the multiverse is expository. They could have, at the very least, showed us the incident that got Yulaw started on his maniacal quest to begin with. Never before have I had so much respect for DeRoy Lindo. It was obvious that he was the only real actor in the bunch and that he did the best he could with the campy material. Everything in the story with the exception of the fight scenes is derivative. I could go on and write something about the horrible script, plot holes, obscene use of the soundtrack, movie cliches, and one-dimensional characters, but I won't.Instead....The fighting was kick-ass! My only quibble is that I wished they would have instant replayed fight scenes at normal speed to make Gabe's/Yulaw's powers appear more realistic (despite being impossible, of course). Slowing things down gets annoying actually. The coolest fight scene wasn't even the predictable show down, but the one with the police motorcycles. Too bad, even that felt truncated.In sum, all of the criticisms that I heard about The One were totally valid, but I simply liked the film for what it was, an ass-kicking vehicle. What can say?6/10 "}{"Title":"Just plain bad....","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (A Spoiler or two)    Jet Li stars in The One a silly and over the top sci-fi oriented martial arts movie that doesn't really care whether the audience understands or cares about it's characters, or the plot for that matter, and goes for straight up action from start to finish. The only problem is even the fight scenes become tiresome and very quickly I might add.     The concept of The One deals with a bad guy named  Yulaw (Jet Li) whose been jumping between parallel universes and destroying the other versions of himself in an effort to become 'the one', hence the silly title. As explained by an agent (Jason Statham, Snatch) every time one of them is killed their energy divides among the survivors.      This is an interesting concept that is never really fully used, instead director James Wong, who did Final Destination, decides that non-stop action sequences will take place of any reasonable explanation of the movie's plot. Now this would have worked had these fight/action scenes not looked so silly and if they hadn't gotten so boring after the first two had passed.     Li doesn't really do a bad job, but he seems to be having just a little more fun playing Yulaw than the good guy Gabe. Carla Gugino is a bore as Gabe's wife and as well as being Yulaw's partner in another universe. Delroy Lindo is just a bore as an agent hot on Yulaw's trail, though Statham is at least passable as Lindo's partner, whose trying to help Gabe.        Well anyway, this just isn't a good movie, some of the fights are sort of interesting but after the first 30 mins. or so I was checking my watch constantly, just waiting for the end, which leaves The One wide open for a sequel. Oh, please no more. I give it * out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"I was not impressed.","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Given the level of talent working on THE ONE, I was disappointed. James Wong and Glen Morgan are responsible for some of the very best episodes of THE X-FILES ever and their first film, FINAL DESTINATION, was quite good. THE ONE on the other hand is not. I like Jet Li. His early films like ONCE UPON A TIME IN CHINA (and its sequels) and FIST OF LEGEND rank among the best action movies of the last decade. I quite enjoyed KISS OF THE DRAGON, an extremely violent action film from earlier this year. That one had preposterous logic, but at least it was consistant logic. THE ONE is not quite sure what it believes. It goes back and forth on what will happen if there is only one Jet Li left. The action scenes look cool, but still I was disappointed in them. They use special effects to slow everything down. When I watch Jet Li kick someones ass, I want to see him do it at full speed (although I admit I liked the motorcycle thing). THE ONE does not succeed on any of the levels it is trying to. "},{"Title":"The One.* * *1/2","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One happens to be one of those science fiction action films that despite what other critics say,happens to be a film that I would have no problem viewing again.In the film,Jet Li plays a criminal who crosses parrallel universes killing off different versions of himself.Now all he's gotta do is to kill one more version of himself in order to become a god.This movie is followed by incredible visual effects and some pretty good fight scenes that are fun to look at.The One is a great film but not as good as Li's previous film,Kiss of the Dragon.Kiss of the Dragon was a complete blast while The One was simply a fun film.Jet Li is moving up and this film is living proof of that.The premise has been used before and may seem unoriginal.But I don't care.I had a great time watching this film. "},{"Title":"Jet Li needs a little help","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I love Jet Li, I just hate every American movie he's ever done and this ... by far ... is the worst American movie he's done. After getting over my initial shock of seeing Li as a bad guy in Lethal Weapon 4, I actually enjoyed his evil turn in this flick, but it was the most shallow movie I'd ever seen. This had high, HIGH Demolition Man-type foolishness and fun going for it, but that never happens. While Demolition Man was funny and packed full of quirky, humorous social references which played well on Sly's typical performance and Snipes matrial-arts style, this movie doesn't know what it wants to do with the star or itself and falls short terribly. I kept having visions of Judge Dredd as I watched it, but I actually liked Judge Dredd compared to this rubbish. I sat through 85 minutes to hear the best line in the whole movie that comes at the very, very end. Somehow, that percise moment captures exactly what this movies should have been, campy and funny with top-notch martial arts. Instead we get cheesy $6 Million Man running effects (what were they smoking on that one?) and the most unrealistic marriage in the whole wide world.There were SEVERAL things that could have saved this movie. Like, just have his wife be dead already. As we already know, action stars don't need to be married to anyone. It always works better when the spouse is dead, almost always. Especially when you're dealing with people who don't necessarily have the strongest grasp of the English language (ie. Arnold, Sly, Van Damme, etc.) Second, make fun of the genre more. Don't even pretend to be the Matrix, the Matrix was very serious in it's themes and sci-fi, just go all out wacky with it ... you know, for the kids. Make it a little longer in order to explain and give some depth to this whole alternate universe thing. It would have been funny, exciting and interesting to see some footage of Bad Li going around kicking his other asses in different universes ... especially that blonde-haired one. I wanna see how he got deep-sixed. And lastly, come up with something better sounding than Multiverse, I kept thinking of songs with lots of stanzas every time they said it.Also the movie needed to be bigger. One thing about that very last scene that made it work besides the funniest thing I've ever heard come out of Jet Li's mouth in English, is the fact that it shows the huge scope of our faux mulituniverses potential.Also, I was the only person laughing at this movie because I think the directors didn't get the point across that they wanted the audience to laugh. Everyone else in the theater was trying to take this thing seriously like it was the Matrix.So essentaially my verdict is thus ... If you liked the Matrix, but thought the martial arts was ... er ... not top caliber you'll be pleased with the martial arts here and will wonder why they didn't put more of it in The One (Hollywood producers still think American audiences don't have the patiences for a true Hong Kong cinema fight sequence, which typically last much longer than five minutes and are more daring, dramatic and are choreographed in the way that Fosse choreographed musicals.) But Matrix lovers will be dissapointed by the lack of substance in this farce. (On a related note, most forget the Matrix is more of a live action Anime than a Hong-Kong flick, therefore the technique is shabby, but everyone gets the point, much like in animation.)Basically this is all Hollywood's fault. Li admitted himself that in China, people aren't worried about kissing your ass so they tell you if a scene doesn't work or if you could stand to do a little better. Here everyone just tells him he's great all the time and don't give him the feedback he truly needs in order to make the film he deserves to make, instead of this tripe.Kiss of the Dragon was close, but no cigar. America has a long way to go before making a credible Hong-Kong style action flick. Go rent Fist of Legend if you want to see what Li is truly capable of. "},{"Title":"great movie if you know what your going into","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is pretty good, if a little short... i'm tired of people comparing the matrix to every damned movie that comes out! this has nothing to do with the matrix (more like highlander (there can be only one, when killing another immortal you gain his wisdom and other stuff) and sliders (multiple universes with doubles of people)). maybe even some mib with the whole policing the galaxy type things ;ppThe soundtrack is well merged into the movie, Jet's acting/english speech has gotten better (think romeo must die...) As for the story, i think its good, this movie was originally typecast for The ROCK (wrestling guy) but he had other movies to do (mummy 2 and mummy 3) imagine what it would have looked like with him...Jet li fans will like this one, hopefully there will be a sequel... and for all you people out there, stop comparing movies to the matrix unless said movie has anything to do with virtual reality or worlds where robots have taken over.... the matrix didnt invent wire acrobatics or slow motion, its been around forever (even the matrix people said they got their ideas from hong kong movies!) "},{"Title":"Does the purpose...","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While the plot and acting by Jet Li were laughable, the film itself served its purpose of keeping me entertained for the hour and a half.  Yes, it was confusing with the random is it good/bad Jet questions posed throughout the movie, but its not like this is heavy genre like Schindler's List.I thought the action sequences albeit short for my taste, to be well done and action packed and allowed Jet Li to display his talents.  The writers could probably have developed the character of the wife more.Through and through, the movie did its job; taking an hour and a half of my time and keeping me happy. "},{"Title":"Good for a sci-fi action movie- What would you expect, an oscar winning film?","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While it is many times better than Romeo Must Die, The One is still like the typical science fiction action movie. The only difference is that in addition to guns and cheesy effects, there is the great addition of the superior martial arts skills of Jet Li.Jet Li plays Gabriel Yulaw and Evil Yulaw, two of the 125 versions of Fill-in-the-blank Yulaws that exist in the Multiverse.In one particular version of the earth, the evil Yulaw was once a good guy, but he goes bad because of the idea that killing his other selves can give him ultimate, god-like power. So Evil Yulaw goes on a dimensional killing spree. His former partner, Delroy Lindo, and Lindo's new partner, Jason Statham (who sounds a lot like Armand Assante in his Judge Dredd role) are Multiverse Agents working for the NBA (yeah, the NBA, but not the National Basketball association). They have yet to take down Yulaw and he has one more yulaw in his sights.The Good Gabriel Yulaw lives on a version of Earth that knows nothing of the Multiverse. He's got a wife and a decent life  working as a sheriff. Then Evil Yulaw comes in.Although we're supposed to root for the good guy in all this, the bad guy does the most damage and he is the baddest ass villain I have seen in a good long while. Just look what he does to a poor motorcycle cop.I love the fight at the end and I had to smile because I believe that the only guy who could best Jet Li move for move is, well, Jet Li.So while this isn't something you should pay full ticket price for, it is a good movie to watch, and it moves very quickly.The ending is badass coolness. I'm not really giving anything away, but If you enjoy villains, you will enjoy the fate of the Evil Yulaw. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but waaaaaaayyyyyy too short","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, now I'm a really big fan of Jet Li and all of his movies. I figured his entrance into western films was inevitable. I'm glad he did, but he needs to make movies that are longer!!! I went to watch the 1030 show, and I got out of the theatre by 12am. This means with 10-15 mins of previews, the movie came out to approx 1 hour and 15 mins! With movies lasting 2 hrs nowadays, this came as a surprise to me....Anyways, all I have to say about the movie is that if you're impressed with what Jet Li can do when he's under the restrictions of normal gravity, imagine what he can do when there are no restrictions!  I would recommend this movie to all action fans... "},{"Title":"What's not to like?","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How could anyone go to this movie and truly be disappointed?  I mean, what did you expect from an action/karate flick?I enjoyed it and like the sci-fi angle and didn't mind the rip-offs from the Matrix.  It delivered just plain simple action with an American-film style happy ending.Occasionally a film breaks out of its genre to be more, or is so spectacular as to be excellent, but this film did neither and that's OK.Hey, maybe it is spectacular in another dimension!  "},{"Title":"Empty spectacle","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is imaginative and full of kinetic stunts and amazing computer-generated imagery.  It is also derivative and vacant of emotion.  While Jet Li is an impressive martial artist who gives credible line readings and the eye-popping visual effects induce blinks of amazement, you will be hard-pressed to develop any real attachment to these characters or the plot, which seems to be stitched together from elements of Highlander, Timecop, The Terminator and The Matrix.  The story and people in it are underwritten, giving us only teaspoons of development while torrents of flashy action rush past.  Distracting rather than involving, the writers of The One miss prime opportunities to create  a truly memorable sci-fi action yarn.  Between plot holes big enough to drop semi trucks through, endlessly flying bullets and fists and maddeningly conventional shot choices and cinematography, the humanity required to care about what happens next to the characters is given short shrift.  If all you care about in a movie is an attempt to out-Matrix other sci-fi/action movies, then by all means catch this one.  If you care at all about story or character, chalk up The One as a fumble as you rent one of the Terminator films instead.  "}{"Title":"Prey there is only ONE","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie stunk so bad I had to wash my clothes when I got home. Hands down, the worst movie of the year -- and keep in mind this year included films like Tomb Raider and The Mummy Returns. It was like being forced to watch UPN for two hours. And 70 million...?? This was more expensive than The Matrix! I just don't get it.   "},{"Title":"Laughably Bad","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a bit confused...  Have the people writing positive reviews seen ANY good HK martial arts movies?  How about any of Jet's good HK movies?How can anyone say this is a good film?Jet Li is very capable as an action star, but his fight scenes in The One are crap.  They have fake CG assistance, awful chop-socky editing, and WAY over-the-top moves.  Try seeing films like Righting Wrongs, and Dragons Forever to see how fights can be skillfully choreographed/edited.Then you have the <shudder> acting.  The balding, loud-mouthed moron that plays the agent is awful.  I had few problems with Jet's performance, and was actually surprised that it wasn't worse.There is no tension when the agents pop up, mostly due to their impotence. They simply threaten Jet over and over...  I'm gonna smoke you!!  You're history!!  I'm gonna shoot you this time!!  Don't move!!  We'll use the honor system!!  Damn, the wormhole opened just in time!! LOLThe amazing amount of cliches employed in the film seals the deal.No, wait.  The pathetic, pump-your-gangsta-fist-in-the-air-while-yelling-MOrtal Konmbat rOolZ  finale is the actual nail in the coffin.Tripe of the highest order.  If you must see HK via America fare, Kiss of the Dragon is much better.  Just plug your ears as soon as Bridget enters the scene. "},{"Title":"Like watching a big screen video game","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you're looking for an Oscar-deserving teary-eyed drama, then The One is not for you.  If you're looking for a fun, over-the-top, overall entertaining action movie, then The One might be up your alley.I don't think anyone stepped into the theater with ticket in hand expecting this to be some breakout role for Jet Li.  It's a sci-fi-esque film, by which I mean a movie that pretends to be sci-fi by throwing in lots of cool special effects and weird futuristic devices (the definition of science fiction is a fictional work that happens to involve science as a key point).Basically, the movie rips off the whole theme of the Highlander series of films and shows -- I'm surprised nobody has mentioned that -- with different entities killing each other to gain their life energies and powers in their endless pursuit to be the one (remember the Highlander tagline... There can be only one).The fun is not in the plot, the acting or the dialogue (although the classic lines by Jet Li at the end of the movie are priceless)... the fun is in watching all the latest crazy fighting games like Tekken shown on screen thanks to the magic of special effects.Whilst one might argue that the bullet time effects from The Matrix have been rehashed one too many times, I believe that there were some such effects shots in The One that were creative and original.Overall, it was an entertaining, if not overly cerebral, movie that was well worth the $8.75 spent on it.  At the very least, rent it on DVD, which would possibly be a better experience, what with all the extras... I'm already waiting for that day. "},{"Title":"A guy movie","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the movie was o.k.  This movie is for teenager who likes comics or video games.  The idea is cool but the story is not at the level like the Matrix.When I saw the commercial, I thought this is going to be a kick ass movie but the best parts in the movies is use up in the trailer.The fights is great but I wish it can be longer.   "},{"Title":"Big disappointment!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I came into this movie thinking Jet Li is an awesome action star maybe this could be good. I also thought by the previews that it looked too much like a computer game to be a really good movie.  This movie is all action and no plot.  The plot is the main character goes around killing other people that are him in different universes. It's just really weak. Once he kills that person it makes himself more powerful. This movie just had to many holes, wondering how anything would happen this way.  Like the Matrix is pretty confusing at first, but they atleast explain everything, where this movie doesn't.  Not only were there big holes, but there were so many mistakes it started to get sickening.  In one scene some people are outside and it is pitch black, then they go inside a house, go upstairs, two minutes later open a shade and SURPRISE! it's a nice sunny day outside. Stuff like that just made you wonder if the director's actually cared about the story or just the action scenes. I give this movie a 4 only because the action scenes were pretty good, especially the final one on one Jet Li fight. "},{"Title":"Off Da Wall KICK @$$ Movie","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is One of the best action and sci-fi movies I have ever seen . Some people said it was a Matrix rip-off , but it was far from it. The plot of the movie is that there are many universes (125 that are known)called a multiverse , and unauthorized travel is strictly prohibited . The are Multiverse Agents who police the universes to make sure no one is breaking any laws. Former Multiverse Agent Yulaw (Li)is not fond of the idea of 125 different versions of himself , so he decides to travel to each one of the universes , and kill the other versions of himself .Every time he kills one of his doubles , the power and knowledge gets divided up equally among him and the surviving doubles , untill he kills 123 of them . There is only one left he has to kill - Gabriel , form our universe . There are things happening to Gabriel that he cant explain , he is getting also stronger and faster , because Yulaw is killing off the other versions of him self  . Now its up to Gabriel to Stop Yulaw from becoming The One . "},{"Title":"Follow Procedure, you're my bitch.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think the end of the One sums it all up when Jet Lis says You're my bitch.  You will pay $12.50 to come to my movie and it will suck, but you will come nonetheless and like it.  It would be to easy to point out all the low points of the film such as the god awful dialogue (including the use of the word procedure about 1000 times to many in the first 1/3 of the film), the horrible direction and the lack of martial arts.  James Wong does not know how to film fight sequences.  He is too caught up in throwing in SFX shots, you can barely see Jet Li fight.  The only highlight is the final good jet vs. bad jet fight which was way too short and not nearly inventive enough, and the motorcycle fight.  But besides that, blah. Yes, I should not expect a great script from a film like this.  I didn't.  I read reviews which cut apart left and right, saying how bad the script was.  I didn't expect much, but what I go was so much worse.  You cannot imagine how bad it is, how many holes there are in this multiverse theory.  If you want to laugh, this is the movie for you.  If you want to see a martial arts film, go and see something else, anything else.  Anything else.  And yes, people may get angry that it has been called a cross between the matrix, terminator or highlander, but when lines, shots, SFX or even props (the aerial hunter killers from Terminator make an appearance at the end of the One) appear in the film that are exact replicas from those movies, you have to wonder.  My final words.  Blah. "},{"Title":"Contrite predictable plot is too much.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The fight scenes were ok. But the plot turns were just too predictable and the action was pretty sad. Some good special effects ala Matrix but thats about it. I saw Iron Monkey recently and that film blows this one away in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Action-Packed Movie, but be expecting what it is.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I actually had a friend who had seen it before who said that some of the effects were cheesy.  You know what?  They were.  But the whole premise of this movie, (and I don't think I'm giving anything away here) is that the regular laws of physics and the limitations that physics put on the human body don't apply to these characters.  (You don't come out of a Superman movie and start complaining about how unrealistic it is to expect us to believe that people actually fly.  That's just plain stupid.)This movie is science fiction/almost fantasy, and it RULES!!!  Granted, it's slightly low on the gut-wrenching emotion aspect, but just by the matter of a little projection of myself into the place of the character played by Jet Li, I could actually understand the emotion of the movie.Go to this movie expecting to see some surrealism.  Expect to see things that can't be done.  And expect to see some fantastic fight scenes.  Jet Li ranks among one of the top martial arts actors ever, and in this movie, you get a glimpse of why. "},{"Title":"Bleh.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One (or The Matrix - Mrs. Henderson's 4th Grade Rendition or Highlander '01 - the Dumbening or ... well, you get the point) is barely watchable, and then only for die-hard special effects lovers.  The action is pointless and not choreographed well at all.  The dialogue is strained at best.  I was embarrassed for the actors, who on the whole were not a poor selection.  Johnathan Statham (Snatch, Lock Stock), while a wonderful actor in his element, sounded like he was trying to do a Bronx-Texan accent while chewing on aluminum foil.  Jet Li was given the cheesiest lines ever bestowed upon an english-dialogue kung fu film actor.  Over all, I'd rather save the $8 and hit myself in the head with a bat while watching The Quest.  It delivers the same effect. "}{"Title":"Jet Li =  New God","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good movie. I would say great, but it wasn't. There was nothing really to this movie, but it was a great action film that didn't rely on a lot of unrealistic explosions. The martial arts scenes were flawlessly choreographed, and the Jet vs. Jet scene is worth the 6.50 to get in.The thing that carried this movie were, obviously, the fight scenes. Unlike The Matrix, I found these scenes to be not only beautiful but PRACTICAL. The fighters held to true martial art form, and the movements are exactly what I would picture them being if two superhuman entities did battle. The end was excellent the good guy won, but the bad guy didn't do so bad for himself either.The music was great. It was heavy enough to get the blood flowing, and added some real intensity to some already intense scenes.The one thing I didn't like were all the attempted comparisons of Jet Li to the Immortal Bruce Lee. In some scenes, Li's hair and poise were vintage Lee. Jet Li should be proud to be Jet Li and not try to follow in the ungodly sized footprints of The Master. "},{"Title":"The One!! Action Thriller!!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Found it to be a roller coaster thrill ride of action. Taut, well-done and extremely visual story. Great performances by Jet Li, Delroy Lindo, and Jason Statham. Smart soundtrack to follow the action also, interesting humor in the choice of Bodies by Drowning Pool as background music to a major fight scene.  "},{"Title":"A disappointing Jet Li movie","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed in Jet Li's new movie, THE ONE.  I like Jet, and I enjoyed his performance, but this movie had no substance.  It was very thin on plot, and I thought the direction was too choppy.  The characters were not developed very well either.  There was plenty of action (perhaps too much = overload), but that alone was not enough to carry this film.  After watching THE ONE, all I wanted to do was come home and pop in a video of one of Jet's Hong Kong films in an effort to erase the bad experience of THE ONE from my mind. "},{"Title":"Waste of time, money, and talent *spoiler. of what, I'm not sure*","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Admittedly, I went in with high expectations, since it featured Jet Li and all. But boy did this movie suck.This is one of those films (like the Matrix) where the main star is a cool special effect. Unlike the Matrix, however, the cool special effect is all there is.If you are a fight fan, don't bother. There's only 1 fight.If you are a sci-fi fan, don't bother. There's 3 total scenes from more advanced universes.If you are a Jet Li fan, don't bother. The make-up job is atrocious so he looks 20 years older.How can I say this even a monkey could understand FILM BADThis movie p*ssed me off so bad I went straight to Blockbusters after the film to try and rent something decent.*spoiler alert*Nowadays, it's pretty normal for a movie to have zero story. This movie has less than zero for a story. In one part, the good Li's 'friends' jump him without even asking his side of the story. Good Li then beats the crap out of them without even trying to explain. Then, they hunt him down just to set up a pretext where his wife can get killed. All of this just so that he can't return to his own universe, which sets up the happy-happy-joy-joy ending.Also, the underlying pretext of the story is dumb. If you get more powerful as each double dies, then the older you get the more powerful you get. The last one to die is the most powerful right? So the oldest fart is the strongest.The ending makes all of this even more ludicrous. Evil Li is sent to a prison planet, where he immediately picks a fight with the entire world. Of course, he should eventually tire, die, and Good Li will become the one anyway, which will cause all the universes to implode.Sigh. I should have just stayed home and drank beer. "},{"Title":"Jet Li Kicking Jet Li's Butt","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  That is pretty much what this movie boils down to.  And I love it for that reason alone.  This film has little, if any, storyline to speak of.  The acting is mediocre, except for the amazing Delroy Lindo.  Yet somehow this movie manages to kick some major booty, metaphorically and literally.  The SFX sometimes inhibits the showcasing of Li's talents, but overall this film is just a cool way to waste an hour and a half. *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Great Cheesy Action Flick","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie has everything you want from a Cheesy Action Flick(TM). Scientifically Impossible Plot(also TM), great fight scenes, nice effects, and even a cameo from someone only a true film buff would recognize (American Movie, anyone?).  Worth the price of admission to see Jet Li kick the crap out of himself!  Best Cheesy Action Flick (TM) since The Rock! "},{"Title":"Good fights","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not a great movie, weak story, poor script, but the the fights are good. Jet Lee is one of the best there is and this movie has plenty of special effects and good Kung Fu.  The one scene where he fights himself makes up for the rest of the film.  While fighting himself they both start out in the Jet Lee closed hand boxing style, but then one of them stops and switches to open hand Kung Fu.  Great stuff if you like this kind of thing.  I can only hope that his next movie has a better script, maybe he should go back and work in Hong Kong, they seem to be putting out better movies these days.  It is a shame to waste his talent.  "},{"Title":"suffering.....","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Treasure the memory of Jet Li's H.K. films cause THOSE DAYS ARE OVER! THE ONE is another U.S. made atrocity. It is loud, dumb, and about as exciting as watching paint dry! Much like TOMB RAIDER, THE ONE manages to sustain non-stop action while avoiding any shred of enjoyment or fun. You'll shake your head in disbelief at how so much money and talent have been wasted on this dud. Must every action movie fight scene now be OVER-scored by a blaring rock song? Can't anyone write a decent script for a Hong Kong star? It took John Woo several tries before he finally made a respectable U.S. film (FACE/OFF). I hope someday Jet Li can find the ideal project to showcase his acting talent as well as his martial arts abilities. For now, he seems content to collect a paycheck and punish his fans!  "},{"Title":"The One, is great; but something is missing...","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Walk into a movie whose trailer explains the plot for you, and you probably don't expect much of a show.  Surprisingly, Jet Li's THE ONE packs a few punches.  Despite what you may hear, the acting is not that bad (just Lindo and Stratham).  The fighting is incredible; you juts have to experience it; there's a lot less acrobatics than in his earlier films, Jet's movements propel the movie.  The soundtrack, to say the least, is definetly a change from Li's usual rap.  It's not that I don't like rap, it just doesn't get your adreneline pumping like techno.  Finally, just two things see this movie for the final fight, and the awesome ending! "},{"Title":"Best movie seen this year","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The header says it all. Although I have not seen a few of the offal summer movies that have come out this summer, this movie by far is the best yet. Good story. Plenty of action. Fantastic Special Effects. Why this wasn't a 'Summer Blockbuster' just astounds me. When a kids movie, Shrek, makes the most for a summer ticket take, one has to admit the movie going has to be a little on the lean side. "}{"Title":"Great action flick","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I hate Hong-Kong style wire job, cheap gadgetry, CGI overload, and the most what I hate is one actor/two roles... yet I really enjoyed this movie. Worse, I am sure i will buy this DVD to my collection when it come out ;)I don't want to repeat other guys comments, so I'll just add what I think they have omitted is Jet Li being promoted as new, modern Bruce Lee? IMO yes, not being big fan of HK-style martial arts flicks, but being big fan of (R.I.P.) Bruce Lee, I found in this movie lots of similarities between both actors. Heck, even Jet Li's hairstyle looks like made by same hair dresser... Many scenes very shot to show Mr. Li's great way of movement, not same - but similiar to camera work on Mr. Lee in Enter of the Dragon. But of course its a different time, and different type of movie.Anyway, with Jackie Chan being unfortunately little late to push his career as a serious martial arts actor in America, I think this time Hollywood casting scouts hit the bull's eye with Jet Li. I am sure in the near future we will see many great action movies with Li in one of the main roles, and I take any bets now that Li will be first The One chinese-born actor to reach $20M level per movie. He may be martial arts master first, but as an actor he show in this movie that he can express great spectrum of emotions. Its just a matter of time 'till he'll conquer America ) Good luck Mr.Li ;-)I gave it only 8 instead of 10 because even in such a great S-F movie as The One is, I can't stand one thing hongkoneese style wire works on flying actors... this is what makes this kind of movies funny in a way where you laugh instead of take the scene seriously as intended by director; ...crouching Tiger anyone? ;) "},{"Title":"fights that The Matrix should have had","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li shows once again that he is the best martial arts actors around. The Story is quite logic (dont expect a hemmingway here!). The Fights in this Movie are only second to those in The Legend. This Movie is an over all 9/10. I personaly liked the last minute of the movie most ! "},{"Title":"What did the movie critics expect?","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One wasn't another Crouching Tiger. But who expected it to be? The action was excellent. The sound track was good. And the special effects overkill made The One a movie that excels in its category of sci-fi martial arts action; a category popularized by movies like The Matrix and Demolition Man.If not for the Li's inadequate acting talent in the (for me, unnecessary) emotional scenes, I would have given this movie at least a nine. The One was never intended to be a serious piece of movie making. Reviewers should take that in to account when ranking The One. "},{"Title":"Great action, but unsatisfying resolution.","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The plot has well been established already A cop in our universe is being stalked by an alternate-universe version of himself who has been killing alternate versions of himself for a while now.  123 counts of murdering himself.  Each time, the energy of the dead one is distributed among all the surviving versions.  Since there's only one left, they're both getting pretty strong.Part of the plot revolves around what will actually happen if one of them dies.  Will the other become a god?  Will he implode/explode?  Will the universe collapse?  Will God's calculator show a great big Divide by 0 error?  It's a point of curiosity throughout the movie.  Thing is, you don't get to find out what happens.  It's like the writers got tired of actually hypothesizing and decided to just end the film already. "},{"Title":"This won't be Jet Li's best American film - with any luck!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One rule of thumb Don't make anything in a Jet Li movie more remarkable than Jet Li! Yes, I loved the special effects in this film, but I think Li is able to carry a movie on his amazing talent as a martial artist alone. And, I'd like to see him grow more as an actor, which I didn't see at all in this film. As simple eye candy, the movie has a high entertainment value - it looks good, and the action is almost constant. But there isn't enough plot to keep you very interested, and the Jet-fighting-Jet schtick interfered with the editing of some fight scenes so severely that it was distracting. As a truly exceptional master of many martial arts styles, most (if not all) fight scenes of him should be shot from a panned-back position, allowing full-body shots which most effectively demonstrate his talent. This was the genius of his fight scenes in films like Fist of Legend and Bodyguard From Beijing. Will I see this film a second time on the big screen? Probably. But I'm still hoping that the great American Jet Li film is still on it's way. "},{"Title":"Expected More...","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As usual, Jet Li fans will be delighted by his unbelievable moves, but movie fans will be left wanting.  It's not really a sci/fi film, but then again it's more than just an action flick.  There are just too many dead zones during the film to really recommend it. "},{"Title":"Good Jet Li martial arts action flick.","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One has to be one of the strangest films I've seen this year. Its got a goofy story filled to the brim with some of the oldest cliches ever. Its got confusing characters who just when they're about to develop a personality get moved to the back burner for the action sequences, which a pretty cool actually. And then theres a scene with evil Jet Li screaming  Your're all my bitches!  to a bunch of scraggly looking convicts before beating the hell out of them. To say all, I liked it! Just wish they had focused on developing the script as much as the action sequences.Still its humor was right on, and the action was constant. Fight scenes were choregraphed well especially one I thought was good, the eventual fight scene between the two Li's.All in all it was better at entertaining me than most of the supposed popcorn flicks over the summer that ended up being total crap. "},{"Title":"Don't look for plot","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you do not look for plot, you will go far with The One. Strictly a NON-plot based movie, if you remove your judgment of plots and character development and things you see in The English Patient and American Beauty, and you have an appreciation for intricate martial arts, then you will enjoy this movie. Judged solely on the action/music, I give this a 9. "},{"Title":"The Ascendant","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  These days, it seems every reviewer or would-be reviewer wishes to pigeon-hole the films they see, just as every would-be producer when they pitch their movie idea to the executives. Such is most reviews of THE ONE, in which the film is unfairly judged and summarized, as in THE ONE is a combo of TERMINATOR plus MATRIX meets THE ELEPHANT MAN taking on JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR with a little PUMPKINHEAD and a dash of TICK TICK TICK! Shut up already. It's a disgustingly pinheaded view of films, and not a review or comment on the film at hand, merely a summary of what it LOOKS like. Now to talk about THE ONE. THE ONE is an impact film, meaning its nature is to physically overwhelm and inawe the viewer. Jet Li puts in some good work here, despite his difficulty with language barriers; Li does what many famous kung-fu movie stars are able to do,  and that's to distinguish his emotions through his body, through physical ferocity or weakness. In that, Li is excellent here, showing at all times a human being behind the power of his techniques. Most critics who do not respect the type of movie this is will completely miss Jet Li's presence behind the superhuman battles; that's why Yulaw, is the film's protagonist It is Li's actor persona, Jet Li as a downright hero, that makes his turn as the villainous Yulaw so fascinating; there is not much difference between Yulaw and the good Li, Gabe, in our world, except Gabe is married and it is his love of his wife that fulfills him; without her, he would be Yulaw, a violent man hungering beyond time and space. Yulaw's desire to possibly  become a god once he's accumulated all the life energies of his alternate selves is a realistic endeavor for a man such as he is a special law-enforcement officer, a sublime martial artist, a physical man who spends every free moment practicing his wushu technique. A man  obsessed with what he does not have a center, a heart, a love. This type of man WOULD be driven to assassinate his useless other selves, all wasted energy in a chaotic universe; Yulaw himself, once part of a superior police force to watch over not one but multitudes of universes, becomes a vicious, uncompromising killer...who also happens to be a martial artist, a life choice requiring vast degrees of self-control and regimented training...this kind of man  would obviously see wasted energy as criminal, and his drive to accumulate and  refocus that energy is not cardboard villainy but merely Yulaw's self-discipline taken to a cosmic scale. Yulaw doesn't want to be God in the classical sense, he just wants to elevate his internal and external fighter's prowess to the highest possible level imaginable...ultimately of course to feed his ego, which is Yulaw's fatal flaw. There's a lot going on in this terse, lightning-fast plot, but it depends on what you're looking for. Jet Li's performance is typical of him and extraordinary as a human being the man is simply a walking encyclopedia of fight technique. The non-superhuman roles, of his wife, or the pursuing Multiverse Agents Lindo and  Statham, or the many many policemen (the film's major fault, too many police waving guns, all seeming buffoonish and crushable as roaches; too much of the movie has cops moving around with their pistols in front of them while we wait for the superhuman Yulaw to smash them, all of the viewers knowing the guns are useless against Yulaw and yet so much of the movie spent Wondering When rather than hoping anybody with a gun actually has a chance) all perform basic functions to the superhuman rumble between Yulaw and Gabe, bad and good Li. Again, these characters have limited life-spans and short histories, and the fact remains that neither Yulaw nor Gabe has time to wonder who their friends are, or mourn for the dead. One man will die, another man will become The One, and that ascendancy is imminent and demanded by universal laws of space and time theories, like objects, stay in motion...the obsessed Yulaw cannot halt his desired ascendancy to possible godhood (or destruction of all universes, since no one knows what will happen when he becomes The One), and neither can Gabe, who also grows more powerful as the life energy of 123 murdered alternate selves is divided equally between himself and Yulaw. Last and not least, there's the final confrontation between Yulaw and Gabe. A very cool, very solid climactic fight that uses wire work but stays grounded in reality, albeit heightened superhuman reality; the fight never becomes a cartoon, thankfully, and as in the whole of the film, whatever cliches Roger Ebert mentions are few (all right, the whole cat-jumping-at-the-camera-to-startle-the-audience is downright unforgivable, but that's hackwork on the director/writer's part) and there is nothing cliche about Li's performance, and given how badly science fiction's been translated to the screen, this film is at least not a complete embarrassment and doesn't pretend to be Arthur Clarke.This is good work by Li. And though not everything not-Li (plot, characters, emotional resonance) is as cool as it could have been, THE ONE manages to be solid and avoids being insultingly stupid, a genre movie made by smart people who want nothing more than to blow viewer's minds with a workmanlike science fiction premise and the awesome skill of Jet Li. For the true lover of genre film, THE ONE is a grand delight.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK, if you are looking for Emmy level drama or story line then skip this 'one'. But, if you need a good action flick with plenty of special effects and Kung Fu, then you will not be displeased. The premise of the story is that there is not just one universe, there are many. We all exist in each universe. The villain in the movie discovers that if he kills his counter persons in other universes he gains their strength, speed, mental capacity, etc. His goal is to kill all other of his counter beings and become THE ONE. Hmnn...wonder if these guys are Highlander fans?Again, the action was cool and the movie was not bad overall. It's not the Matrix by any means, but is worth seeing. (7/10).-- DP. "}{"Title":"Action Fans Will Be Disappointed With This...","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I feel cheated after watching this.Very much like taking a vacation to an exotic place, paying 10 bucks for a movie experience is largely a function of expectation.  Preset expectations are cultivated by TV commercials, word of mouth, newspaper advertising, and movie critics.After being inundated with so many images of Jet Li and high-wire martial arts FX, I went into this movie thinking that I would be 90 minutes of nonstop Matrix-like moves.Alas, what I got as 75 minutes of muddled narrative and 5 minutes of martial arts, and 4 minutes of Matrix.Sorry, Jet, but I wish I would have rented your show instead of taking an evening out to see it.-------------------------------------------Low Points about The One -Jet Li is hard to cheer for.  He does not have the charm or the protagonist likeability of Jackie Chan.  He doesn't even have the stoic Bruce Lee poise. -Jet Li has no acting voice.  He is unable to convey any emotion in English. Forgettable deadpan expression... that's all he can muster, like an asian Fox Mulder, but weaker. -Cheesy props make this movie look cheap. -Narration Flaw the protagonist and antagonist should be visibly different, especially if they are both played by Jet Li.  In this movie, they are both clad in black jumpsuits.  For most of the fight scenes, it is impossible to feel any dread or tension because we don't know who to cheer for.High Points about The One -will make for a good $4 rental one day -interracial relationships are promoted in this film.  Good to see that the 21st century is coming around for some filmmakers. -you will appreciate watching Van Damme's TimeCop more, since Timecop is a better version of this story.---------------------------If you're a martial arts fan, go and rent Crouching Tiger or Best of the Best 2 or Enter the Dragon.  Trust me on this one. "},{"Title":"...not a really good movie.","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see an advance screening of the One this Monday and I can only say that's it not a really good movie.The plot is that there is a multitude of parallel universes that exist  (a multiverse) and that there is a technology that permits you to jump from universe to universe. Now, the bad guy who is played by jet li wants to go through all the universes to kill is `other' selves so he can become `The One' by having all the power that is spread through his different selves. He his pursued by multiverse-cops and has only one guy left to kill.. The `good' Jet li.The whole problem of this movie is the story. nothing's original and it's full of plot holes.You start with something that looks like Timecop (now that's a good movie to get inspired from), then you take a concept that was defined in Highlander, you add the look of the Matrix, and you finish with a scene that could have been inserted (or taken from) Mortal Kombat. There are some scenes that are fun to watch, but you get bored relatively quickly and at the end, you don't really care.  Also, while that's not really what you expect in these movies, the acting is really bad.  I really like Delroy Lindo, Jet Li, and also Jason Statham (from Lock stock. and Snatch) but it doesn't save you from bad acting, especially Statham.The SFX are Ok but nothing special and the fight are also fun to watch. The final scene were Jet-Li fights himself is well done but it's not perfect. It's too bad that they used special effects to get these really `matrix like' fight scenes.  You don't need them.... you have Jet-Li.  I hope that at some point, Jet Li will be remembered for really good action or sci-fi movies; at least as entertaining of what he has done in Hong-Kong.This one, unfortunately, will disappear from the theaters in 1 or 2 weeks. If you're a fan of cheap sci-fi movies and that you have nothing to do on a cheapie night, maybe you can consider seeing that movie, beside that... forget it.  "},{"Title":"Check out the soundtrack, but not the movie.","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  About the only thing I can say I enjoyed about this movie was the soundtrack.  This pretty much sums up Jet Li's newest foray into his own lack of acting chops.  The soundtrack, featuring many current hard rock artists was a fun distraction from the ridiculous plot, meandering direction, and sheer lack of talent on the part of the star, Jet Li. Costarring in this debacle is Jason Statham, who is usually fun to watch but even here he seems flat and uninspired. Besides the soundtrack, about the only other saving grace is some cool Matrix-esque effects.  Many of them work well within the context of the plot, but bullet-time effects like these are nothing new anymore.Overall, this film was just a waste of film stock.  A friend I saw this with even said he was watching only for the martial arts action and was disappointed.  He said the action was confused by the overusage of special effects and would have been better served with less concentration on the cool things one can do with digital effects and more on the martial arts.  "},{"Title":"The film is flashy, effects-driven and very hollow.","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One By Dean KishTwice the action, twice the budget, twice the effects and twice the Li is just a little of what `The One' is being hyped as. But twice may not be such a good thing.According to this film, there are literally hundreds and hundreds of alternate universes that house people who look the same as us but are different from the choices they chose in their lives. Within these alternate dimensions, a solitary life force flows between all of our duplicates. When one of our duplicates dies in their dimension the power is then shifted and spread among the survivors. When the numbers begin to dwindle the survivors become more and more powerful.Martial-arts sensation Jet Li (Romeo Must Die) stars as Yulaw, an obsessed man who used to be a member of an elite crime unit, which monitors traveling within the multiverse. Yulaw has successfully killed 123 versions of himself to become `super-human' as his life force builds. Yulaw is determined to make the body count larger as he slowly becomes closer to being `the One'.Special Multiverse Agents Roedecker, played by Delroy Lindo (Get Shorty), and Funsch, played by Jason Statham (Snatch), are after Yulaw as he enters our world to take out his final duplicate. The Special Agents team with Gabe, Yulaw's duplicate in our world, to help bring Yulaw to justice. Who will be the final Li and which will be the one? Will the fabric of the multiverse unravel as Yulaw destroys himself?The One is basically `Time-Cop' meets `Highlander' with a dash of the cult TV-series, `Sliders' thrown in. The film is flashy, effects-driven and very hollow.Jet Li is always very interesting to watch in his action sequences but when you are trying to follow two Jet Li's, who dress almost identical, you never know who to cheer for. This is especially disconcerting when watching the film's final 25 minutes where you have an amazing fight sequence where Li fights himself. But which of them is the good guy? When you aren't fighting the constant identity crisis you have to contend with the obvious bad acting and dialogue from the entire cast. This film comes off as a `direct-to-video' script that should have been maybe `direct-to-Van Damme' or worse `direct-to-Dudikoff'.Director-producer team James Wong and Glen Morgan have once moredelivered another sloppy effects-heavy project that has no substance. They did a lot better with last year's `Final Destination' because it wasn't laden with special effects but with an interesting script (well, as interesting as `teen-horror' films get).Wong and Morgan are most famous for their contributions to season one of `X-Files' and their short-lived and critically acclaimed space-drama `Space Above & Beyond' but it seems that these partners really don't know how to harness their power in the sci-fi genre `above and beyond' those two TV shows.This film would have made a more interesting comic book than a feature film. To be honest it felt like a really bad comic book movie. (1.5 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer. "},{"Title":"Definitely a must for Jet Li fans","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A very entertaining film, The One uses Jet Li in very cool and stylish ways. While I personally would have enjoyed a somewhat better plot, I did not let it detract from the main reason I went, to watch the kung fu! The action is excellent, with great wire-work and very good use of body doubles. While not Li's best film, it certainly is highly enjoyable and should not be missed by any fans of martial arts or of Jet Li.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Non-stop action","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked The One for the action alone. It's only about 85 minutes long so don't expect a riveting story or some intricate plot because it's not there. The movie establishes its purpose in the beginning and that's pretty much it...no twists, no new discoveries, no heart-warming scenes that's gonna make you care for anyone. The movie is wall to wall action and rarely stops. This is a straight up action film with a sci-fi setting. It's science fiction without the science..Demolition Man style with with martial arts thrown in. Jet Li plays both the good guy and the villain and his villain role steals the show until the final fight scene. The Jet vs. Jet fight scene is amazing and shows that Jet is the man when it comes to martial arts and what he does can't be imitated. good Jet's BaGua Zhang fist style is beautiful for lack of a better term. bad Jet's Xinyi style is very brutal so it's not really graceful, just straight forward attack. Honestly it made the Matrix fight scenes look silly by comparison.The wife and multiverse cop characters could have been developed better but they served their purpose. The movie certainly could have been longer and the soundtrack works in some parts and not in others...too much alternative for my taste. Those are the only problems I have with The One. It leaves you wanting more. If it's a box office hit it definitely has room for a sequel. Overall I thought it was a good movie for eye candy and action/martial arts junkies. "},{"Title":"The One","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is probably the best movie ever made. That about sums it up Acting amazing Special effects- amazing fights scenes, very very cool music is awesome lots of papa roach and drowning pool ie.last resort -bodies -bloodbrothers -sinnerjet li, and statham very cooldefinite buy, wicked movie Storyline is very cool as well, very originalhighly recommended. jet li takes the spotlight. 10 out of 10 easilyThanks "},{"Title":"There are only 123 universes?","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jet Li is praised by a lot of martial arts movie fans and I admire the films he's been in but THE ONE is just an embarrassment. Really, it's a film that spits mud on his career. The action scenes and special effects were pretty darn cool, the storyline was original but the film was rushed and the acting and the poor script spoiled the film.The storyline revolves around psycho killer, Gabriel Yulaw (Jet Li) who travels to different parallel universes to kill different versions of himself only so he could become stronger and stronger. However when Gabriel Yulaw goes to the universe where a different version of himself is a police officer named Gabe Law (also played Jet Li), he becomes Gabriel Yulaw's toughest match.The funny thing about this film is that there are quite a number of reviews on this website saying that this is fantastic, awesome, a hell of a movie etc., which leaves me rather confused because this film was a really was not good.In conclusion, Jet Li fan or not, don't watch it. "},{"Title":"What the hell was this film even ABOUT?!","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'll get the positive stuff out of the way now. The action was great and Jet Li is an awesome action hero. Other than the action, though, this film is utterly worthless, dumb, pointless, and poorly written.What the hell was that scene with the woman in red saving his life with a damn mouse? Was that supposed to mean anything? What the hell is a multiverse? What the hell were these people on when they wrote this, and who convinced them that this plot was good by any means? Oh, and what is up with the ending? Did any damn thing in this movie make a lick of sense?! There, folks, I said it. This movie thinks it's way smarter than it actually is, which is completely stupid. It wasn't a bookstore! Gimme a break... "},{"Title":"Wong, go back and watch The Matrix again, and try to pay attention to something other than the special effects and the action","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've heard a few people say that this is better than The Matrix... I only have one question; are you people blind, deaf or just dumb? Jet Li is the least talented martial artist there is... Bruce Lee would not only kick his weak little ass, but make him cry for his mommy too. Li has no charisma, no acting talent... for Christ's sake; he can't even do a martial arts movie without wires! Do you know why the martial arts of The Matrix were so damn impressive? If you look past the fact that it's well-choreographed, cool, stylish and well-filmed, it was so damn impressive because these people had no prior experience with martial arts fighting. None whatsoever. They trained for several months during preproduction, just to learn the moves. A few months... how long has Li been doing martial arts again? The better part of his life? Then how come it looks like he's dancing instead of fighting? He sleepwalks through every single fight sequence, and the super-slow-motion sequences look awful. They look entirely fake, like he's barely even moving at all. A lot of the action is ripping off The Matrix(I know that's almost a cliché by now, but seriously... dodging bullets by bending the upper body? Moving extremely fast in slow-motion, dodging bullets and getting the enemies weapons and using there own weapons against them? Please. It couldn't possibly have been more obvious). The plot is ludicrous. It's basically a ripoff of Highlander, by the way. The pacing is bad. The film utilizes every single Hollywood cliché and stereotype there is. The acting is bad and the characters are poorly written. The film is just horribly bad, tries way too hard to be cool without actually doing anything worthwhile, or showing us anything we haven't seen hundreds of times before, most of it being better. This movie represents the basis of what is wrong with Hollywood; you can throw a cheap script together from old ideas, pick an entirely unlikeable lead actor, throw some half-ass martial arts fighting into the film, fill it with some lame special effects, and still have an audience, despite cutting so many corners that your film should, by all means, be forgotten and all copies burned. James Wong, wise up, return to making great horror movies like Final Destination and stay away from Jet Li and his crappy movies. I recommend this exclusively to Li fans, and I advise anyone else to stay far, far away. Go re-watch The Matrix, or one of the less intelligence-insulting knock-offs. 5/10 "}{"Title":"THE ONE WHAT?","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has absorbed a little too much Matrix and Sliders.That's total mass confusion for one actor. Jet Li playing Gabe Law and there are many versions of himself in different universes who get killed by his derranged lookalike. Getting stronger by killing off his lookalikes is kinda wierd. But the action of the movie is anything but ordinary. Deflecting a bullet with a gun is a skillful feat for someone who gets enhanced from killing off the lookalikes.The one scene that really got my goat was when the police confronted the killer lookalike, he grabbed the two police motorcycles and clanged the police officer like they were cymbals. His entire body will be ringing with pain. And the final fight scene was confusion, it was hard to tell who was fight who. When the deputy saw the wedding ring band mark he knew it was Gabe Law. So luckily they grabbed the right man and put him in that Dangerous prison. He thinks he's THE ONE. The one deadly inmate any prisoner has ever faced.  If you liked Double Impact or other twin related fighters, this movie is the The One. 5 out of 10 2 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"Occasional good action, but overall a predictable movie with the usual Hollywood formula touch.","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The OneThe idea is, that in the future we all exist in multiverses, as in multiple universes. A new technique has been build to make it possible for one to travel between them, a former cop of the multiverse has discovered that by killing his clones he will unite the force of them all in himself. He has by now killed them all, there is only one left. 2 new multiverse cops are chasing him, Julaw, as he finds the last one he is seeking, whom is also a well trained police man.It sounds a little confusing yeah, but you quickly discover the meaning of it all. Actually it's a very interesting and original plot and background for the movie, sadly the movie far from takes advantages of it, instead of building a unique sci-fi experience and experimenting with the idea, the movie chooses to build one action cliché upon another. Sadly this just fades out in the end. The movie is obviously build after a typical Hollywood formula, it has everything a modern Hollywood film needs. Romance, action, thrills, effects etc. Sadly the movie fails to succeed in all of the, everything is very predictable, and i saw the end coming after 15 minutes or so, the whole movie felt like something you've seen before, just now in a different scenario. To bad they didn't take advantage of the interesting background story, it could have been such a good movie, but instead it becomes just another movie, which I will probably have forgotten in not too long.The movie also takes an obvious inspiration in a movie like The Matrix, especially the many bullet-time sequences shows that, sadly this just doesn't work as well here. The movie sort of end up with a feeling of a computer game, Jet Li's fantastic material talents are sadly wasted here by computer work, instead of showing them raw, they're altered by all kind of special effects, unfortunately.James Wong was also behind the partly successful Final Destination, but in this movie it doesn't feel like he got much experience, somehow he manages to turn a promising movie into a braindead action movie, that brings what a million movies have done before. This really is just another movie.The acting isn't too good either. Especially Jet Li and Carla Gugino's chemistry was absolutely terrible. It was just so obvious that the scenes where we were supposed to see how much they loved each other, well they were like a shadow of themself, generally Jet Li's performance felt very hollow, and it was like he had no interest in the acting of the movie himself, felt like he was thinking of something else while giving us a few one liners and shallow performance. To Sum it all up a bit. This movie could have been so much more than it became, the storyline is very promising, but the movie fails to take advantage of it. Instead this movie has become just another movie, that everyone will have forgotten soon, this is not a memorable movie by any movies. Only thing i will remember it for is how it ruined the always great Jet Li martial arts, by adding unnecessary computer effects to everything. The movie does sometimes bring a few good moments, some of the action scenes are entertaining, it's just all been seen before, but for fans of action movie it will probably entertain for the 82 minutes it lasts.4/10  "},{"Title":"Are u all insane???","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Are you people out of your minds?? 5.2?? This movie deserves a better rate!! This should be at least above 7. It has good plot, great audio/video effects, simple but nice storyboard.... anyway.. it's different than Matrix.. can't really compare them. I'm not a big fan of police/action movies... but this got this futuristic thing combined with action.. I've enjoyed it!!! "},{"Title":"sci-fu spectacular","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  certainly not jet li's best movie, but fans of the genre (sci-fu?) will not be disappointed by his fourth hollywood film. 'the one' is fast, funny and entertaining with enough special effects to compensate for it's other deficiencies.talking of deficiencies, it is impossible having seen this film, not to comment on the performance of english actor, jason statham. anyone who has seen 'the transporter' will have a fair idea what i mean, but please be warned statham is bad. i mean, really bad. so bad in fact, that his appalling acting (which is fast becoming something of a trademark) very nearly ruins the film.jet li's performance however, is entertaining as always and the fight scenes, choreographed by corey yeun, allow him to show his versatility as a martial artist, especially in the finale. although, fans of his earlier work may well be disappointed that li's own wonderful martial arts skills are somewhat masked by the computer generated special effects. "},{"Title":"extremely clever hidden parody","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Sorry to say to all of you but I don't think that The One is really what it seems to be. I started to watch it ready to be hugely disappointed but what a relief!!!!The movie is fantastic - so coherent in its form. Each element - the plot,acting,stunts and visual effects sequences, even choreography and costumes are so perfectly blended together in a horribly stupid movie. If I had watched it expecting some exciting sf action thriller my head would have probably exploded but right from the start the director blinks to the viewer as if he wanted to say don't be afraid, it's a really good satire mocking all those schematic stereotypes that are a real cancer of contemporary action movies. And it is - visual effects and fight sequences are ripped directly from Matrix and Crouching Tiger... and when some elements are original they are extremely stupid...and entertaining. All the elements that I mentioned earlier mock most typical clichés and even go beyond that. The actors have to say one of the most artificial dialogs I have ever heard in a movie. The plot and the development of the story is like it was written by a 8 year old boy who previously spend a year in front of computer playing kung-fu games and watching Texas Ranger and Baywatch Nights (or sth like that). I strongly believe...it is all made deliberately. For those unwilling to notice it from the start, the director prepared the great ending which is so unrealistic (this world with bright sharp colors - look what those people are wearing, what they look like!!!!).And of course the great sequence with Li the villain (Mortal Kombat rip) who fights with the whole colony of prisoners and the camera live him there. Outstanding, hilarious, well made and intelligent - especially because some may think that it was a serious sf/action ... something. On the other hand I may be wrong - it can be sf/action something prepared by the Forrest Gump's brother (not offending Mr. Gump). However, I really enjoyed it and anxiously wait for the next serious hidden parody from Mr. Wong. 8,5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jason Statham and Jet Li in the same movie, and it's still bad.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****The One features the kind of premise that I don't feel works for a martial arts thriller.  You see, Jet Li stars as, well, take your pick.  There are different versions of himself across 125 different parallel universes.  The film focuses on two in particular, Gabriel Yulaw, the evil version who's dimension-hopping around, killing off each of his doubles in a bid to gain the powers of a god, and then there's Gabe Law, a sheriff's deputy on, presumably, our world.  Out to stop Yulaw are two multiverse agents, played by Jason Statham and Delroy Lindo.As a sci-fi extravaganza, The One boasts an okay premise, but that's about it.  As with all movies dealing with alternate universes, there are two many logical loopholes.  Statham tells Li that he's married to someone else in another universe, which leads to the problem of how you could possibly have doubles of yourself unless everyone in every universe had the exact same family lineage, meaning these worlds really can't be all that different.  But, as with the logic flaws of time travel, this is something I'm willing to accept.  The bigger problem is how the hell the Multiverse agency keeps track of who's who on every universe, considering each alternate version of everyone has different names.  As an action movie, which The One primarily is, the movie fails to thrill with its digitally enhanced action scenes.  Romeo Must Die had this problem, but nowhere near the extent of what we see here.  At one point, Li leaps almost fifty feet into the sky.  Granted, there's an explanation for his superpowers, but the magic of watching a martial arts flick is seeing someone use his own natural talent without the aid of wires or computers.  That's all gone here, as we get lots of CGI, bullet dodging, and superhuman punches and kicks.  The One concludes with a Li vs. Li fight, both wearing identical clothing though one nicely keeping his overalls unzipped so we can differentiate between them.  Li fans might or might not enjoy the fight, hard to say.  I didn't like it since I've never much cared for fight scenes between twins, mostly because part of the joy of watching two skilled performers in the martial arts facing off is how different the two opponents are. Jet Li has made some thrilling action films in his time (Fist of Legend, Kiss of the Dragon) and Jason Statham is coming into his own as a major action star (The Transporter).  They're both in this movie, and both deserve better, particularly Statham, who has the machismo and charisma to go far.  Of all Jet Li's American films, this is his worst. "},{"Title":"corny","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't really know what to expect with this movie and I'm glad I didn't get too excited cause I would have been really disappointed cause this movie kind of sucks. I don't even know what was going on Jet Li was fighting against himself but of course an evil version that violated some kind of illegal universal travelling it's kind of stupid. The action is good at times but other times it looks cheesy and really crappy. I really wouldn't recommend this to anybody unless you just like action and don't mind a terrible story and bad acting. Romeo Must Die is much better. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From what I saw in the trailers this movie looked so silly and a little too hokey to me, so I ultimately passed on seeing this one in the theater.  So the other day I rented it and took a peak at it.  I have to say that it was MUCH better than I thought it would be.  Perhaps that is because I had such low expectations for it, but I thought it was a really interesting story and actually quite original.  There were a number of fights/stunts that I was less than pleased about, but I can deal with them.I liked when Jet Li smacked the guy with the motorcycle, but I didn't like when he picked up two motorcycles and sandwiched another guy between them.  I think one smack would have been enough.  I won't say that I was truly upset that I didn't see this in the theater, but I wouldn't have minded seeing it.  Like I said there were a number of things that look rather lame, but there were also a number of things that looked really cool.Oh, and lets not forget Carla Gugino.  She is worth watching the movie alone!  All I can say is WOW, What a woman!All in all, I thought it was a fun mesh of martial arts and science fiction and enjoyed it a lot more than I thought I would.  I hope that you like it too.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Just sit back and enjoy the action","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For a movie filled with spectacular special-effects, some cliched moments as well as a plot with more holes than a moon's surface, The One manages to be vastly entertaining. For starters, Jet Li is a great martial artist and his english is much, MUCH better than Jackie Chan's (don't even get me started on that awful movie called Rush Hour 2). On occasion, he even managed to deliver some of his lines fluently without any hindrance ... very impressive. Because his character possess inhuman strength and speed, the fight scenes are being done with slow-motion effects. Yeah its nothing new but a real crowd pleaser nonetheless.Okay, so a lot about this movie just doesn't quite add up together. For instance, if Gabe gets stronger by the death of his own mirror selves, wouldn't everyone be just as strong as him too? I mean, everybody must die sometimes - even of old age! Yet I chose to sat there in the theatre, devoid of any constructive criticisms that I usually reserve for more serious movies and found myself cheering and having a lot of fun. Wham, bam, thank you ma'am. So even if the plot is practically non-existent, this movie will definitely brighten up your day. "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was an impressive combination of scifi and martial arts fighting. Jet Li plays multiple roles, but concentrates primarily on a criminal who is sliding among alternate universes and killing the versions of himself in each universe. I loved the special effects and fight scenes, where Li fought himself. (quite literally!)** 1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"One Great action flick","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Jet Li continues to make a name for himself with Amercian action flicks. The One is no exception. The film has great fight scenes, a fast paced script and good casting. Jet Li plays the dual roles very well and he delivers one of the best one liners ever in the movie. All in all if you want a good action flick check this One out. "},{"Title":"This movie boasts some great f/x but...","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can not help but think that so much could have been done with this movie.  For instance, early in the film we are told that there are at least one-hundred and twenty-three alternate universes other than our own.  In these universes, there is an alternate version of ourselves, each one completely oblivious to the others existence.  Now if one our alternates were for some reason, to die, there life force would be divided up equally amongst the remaining versions.  If one were to discover this, they could possibly begin to systematically eliminate all the other versions of themselves and become The One.  To prevent this from happening, a special police force has been set up to maintain a balance in the universe.  This does however, raise many questions, like how did we discover these universes and how are we able to travel back and forth between them?  These questions could have been explained but the movie tries to pack too much into eighty-seven minutes.  The movie actually seems to rely more on action and special effects rather than story.  This movie actually wouldn't be that bad except that it seems to suffer the most from poor script writing.  The main problem with the story is that it resembles Highlander too much and seems like it's been thrown together.  The violence here, which isn't at all graphic, is too comic bookish to really be believable and this brings me to my second point.  It is obvious that the writers of The One were shooting for some kind of comic book-like text, but unfortunately it doesn't work here.      I wouldn't really recommend this movie to anyone because the story is too full of holes but does have some pretty nifty special effects.  I would only recommend this movie to hard core Jet Li fans.  6/10               "},{"Title":"Truly awful and empty!","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Another big screen movie bites the dust but would make a great video game.  Eight years after the revolutionary special effects seen in 'Jurassic Park', computer special effects are becoming routine, boring and movies are relying too much on them since the technology has become easier and easier.  In an age of marketing, 'The One' will probably spin off into a Nintendo, Play Station or other commercial arcade piece.  Glen Morgan and James Wong, who are ex of 'The X-Files' writing and directing team from a few years ago, are desperate to get a hit and they failed miserably with this one.  An incoherent, repetitive and badly edited piece of pseudo action (for lack of a better term) entertainment.  Still, Jet Li is the best martial artist in film today.  How about a series of videos from him teaching his art?  It would be better than this mess. "},{"Title":"A Fun 90 Minutes.  What More Can You Ask?","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From the filmmaking team that brought you Final Destination comes the feel-good action thriller of at least the past week or two.Final Destination was a great first feature-- it showed promise, creativity and inspiration (as in, playfulness with the art form, not Oscar-- and yes, both are important, thanks), but it was still just that a first feature.Like Independence Day before it (which was the second film written and directed by team Roland Emmerich and Dean Devlin), this is a second feature from a filmmaking team that just wants to wow us with whiz-bang special effects and a great, mindless good time.  The One, which is also very creative, delivers.Jet Li is actually a very expressive and emotive actor, though acting isn't his problem here.  It's the English language, but the script (by Wong and partner Glen Morgan) gives him a few great lines anyway.  The fight choreography is both executed and photographed many times better than the hack jobs Lethal Weapon 4 or the two Rush Hour films.  Not that these films didn't have great fights.  The directors just didn't know how to shoot them.But James Wong gives us a lot to look at, and while this is still a far cry from The Matrix, I maintain that these two filmmakers are ones to watch.  I mean, c'mon.  The bad guy uses motorcycles as fly swatters.  That's not FUNNY?A solid 8/10.  And oh yeah, it does have one thing in common with The Matrix ... both the films themselves, and the worlds in which they take place, would make incredible Graphic Novels.  So there. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was great. I read reviews for it and walked into the theater not expecting much, but I walked out impressed. The fight scenes were awesome, the special effects were awesome and the story line was pretty good. I think the characters could have been a bit more explained though, but other than that, excellent.A must see for any Jet Li fans. And if your not a Jet Li fan, see it anyway. On a scale of one to ten, this move is a fifteen.Stinger I am Yulaw! I am nobodies Bitch! "},{"Title":"OK action thriller","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In my previous IMDb iteration, I was pretty tough on THE ONE, a sci-fi thriller about alternative universes and a man (Jet Li) killing off his counterparts across the multiverse in order to become a god. I referred to this as a wire-fu quickie and crapped all over Jet Li for his performance as the villain (he had been seen to much better effect as the villain of LETHAL WEAPON 4). I have watched THE ONE a couple of times since then, and I will amend my comments slightly to give credit to Li for pulling off dual roles. He is convincing both as good and bad guy. His English is pretty darned good, all things considered, and I gave him credit for this in my previous review. The idea of a multiverse, a pretty new concept at the time, is intriguing although nothing is done with it in THE ONE, which primarily consists of Good Li and Bad Li playing cat and mouse across a city, while Bad Li kills and/or maims a veritable army of cops. The ending is predictable as all get out, but don't let it stop you from enjoying the many eye popping fight sequences. The always-entertaining Delroy Lindo and Jason Statham are multiverse cops chasing down Bad Li. The plot is straight out of HIGHLANDER, and clearly THE ONE would not have been made were it not for THE MATRIX. "},{"Title":"Good, If You Like the Genre","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you like action sci-fi movies, you will enjoy this 'One'. It's very well filmed, though the effects are not too original - mostly going on the path open by 'Matrix'. It has a well written script, with some logic for a change. It is not too long, so that it does not get boring. It's simple, and does not pretend to take us into any psychological or philosophical track.Of course, if you do not like the genre, all the above will be minuses, and you should avoid the movie. I can stand one of these, from time to time. 7/10 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"Not much good to say about this one.","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While 'The One' isn't exactly bad, it isn't exactly good either. I may have checked it out of my public library because Carla Gugino is in it. Jet Li is a martial arts expert, but that type of fighting is way secondary here. The Sci-Fi concept is intriguing -- 125 or so parallel universes and we've figured out how to detect wormholes to travel from one to the other. But because of the hazards, such travel is highly restricted. This movie was filmed during or right after the 2000 presidential elections in the USA. They used that, and in one universe we see 'President Gore' on TV, while in a different universe we see 'President Bush' commenting on the same subject. However this bit of cleverness is not enough to make 'The One' worth recommending.SPOILERS follow, quit reading, OK!?  The rogue Jet Li figures out that if he kills the other 124 of himself in various parallel universes, he will be endowed with all the power of all 125, with strength, speed, and overall mastery of his universe. He will become 'The One.' The special effect, where they are pulled apart and sucked up through the wormhole, then re-assembled upon arrival at the next universe, is quite well done. But the story is not always clear, the acting is suspect, and most special effects often look fake, all adding up to a less than happy 83 minutes of movie. "},{"Title":"Does the term 'far-fetched' mean anything to you?","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsVan Damme did it,Arnie did it,so surely it was only a matter of time before martial arts star Jet Li appeared in a movie where there was a double of himself.So it's safe to say it's been done before.But sadly,never this poorly.Director James Wong probably thought he was making a smart,intriguing movie here,but in fact ,the story of alternate universes and different versions of ourselves is as far-fetched as it is just plain silly.Li is probably the youngest and most flexible action star around at the moment.Not only that,but his martial arts skill is amazing,as Kiss of the Dragon proved.So it only serves to hinder things further that the producers have once again taken the Matrix thing one step too far and incorporated it into practically all the fight scenes,when it really wasn't necessary.Not only that,but with Li as both the hero and the villain,(aside from the fact we've seen it all before) it's only a matter of time before the fight scenes become boring.Wow,Jet Li vs. ............Jet Li,who can win?Ultimately,the title spells out the rating.* "},{"Title":"There can be only one... Sorry, wrong movie.","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To be fair, The One isn't a direct ripoff of Highlander (something I've never considered worthy of ripping off to begin with). It's more like Highlander meets Sliders, only not quite as awful as that sounds - but the team of James Wong and Glen Morgan just toss away any potential of its premise in favour of endless shoot-'em-ups (or kick-'em-ups, as it were) and unimpressive digital effects.Jet Li is certainly better at playing twins than Jean-Claude Van Damme, but the movie's too rushed to take any advantage of its storyline (even with the end credits it comes in at less that 90 minutes); it also doesn't thrill as much as it should, and often doesn't really make much sense even on its own terms - The One officially becomes irredeemably stupid when the good Li dons an outfit like the one the bad Li is wearing, when it would have been safer (and more sensible) for him to continue wearing the white gown he had on before, what with the police and the multiverse police officers (Delroy Lindo and Jason Statham) after the one in said outfit.It's nasty and brutish, and it's also stupid and dull (even unto the climax), but it is short. Messrs Wong and Morgan have still to make up for Space Above and Beyond. "}{"Title":"Wow, okay, just WOW","Date":"14 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As a fan of Jet Li in general, I still consider this as one of his best movies. On the one (see what I did there? ;) )hand, you have a great story line, and reason to carry on watching, but on top of this, you get to watch some kicka$$ martial arts. This has been in my personal movie collection for years, and I never get sick of seeing it, nor enjoying it. There are a great amount of otherworld easter eggs, and also the soundtrack made me want to find out who they were. And spoiler *Olie doesn't die!, at least not in another universe! Yay! I love the idea of finding your centre, but in todays society, it makes it hard. Still, this is a movie worth watching 10/10 "},{"Title":"When will Hollywood find a great film for a unique talent?","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The One stars Jet Li in another formulaic actioner with little or no imagination involved, it's similar in look and feel to the Van Damme action vehicle Timecop. But amazingly is actually not as good even though it has a far superior star to work with.Jet Li has yet to find a film in Hollywood that matches his unique talents, so far the list looks pretty grim Craddle to the Grave, Romeo Must Die etc. Compare that to his Asian movies such as Hero, Once Upon a Time in China and there is a gulf in class. Why Hollywood keeps dumping him in dross like this is anyones guess.There are a few good fights but the visual effects are average at best, the supporting cast of Delroy Lindo and Jason Statham pretty much phone in their performances.Overall it may be OK for a late night TV watch or a one off rental but it's deeply disappointing.4/10 - Come on Hollywood find something decent for Jet to be in!!! "},{"Title":"Really lame.","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those is-it-a-movie-or-is-it-a-video game kinda films. I know when you watch a Jet Li movie, you're expecting mediocre acting, but there's absolutely no real drama in this film.  The relationship between Jet Li and his wife is contrived, and the rest is all action stuff, and too much of it is digital effects and not real martial arts.And the plot is pathetic.  It centers around a buncha hooey about alternate universes and replicas of everyone in each one of them.  A renegade Jet Li travels between universes and kills all the other Jet Li's, absorbing their power and getting stronger with each death.  He meets up with a good Jet Li in 21st century Los Angeles and the battle is on for who winds up as the real one.Comic book stuff.  Jet Li's worst film.  "},{"Title":"tough!!!!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The plot was a bit confusing, so this is the one movie you will see twice, 4 sure! Besides that it was good martial arts, slowmo scenes, (kind of the John woo style) The director James Wong has done a great job!!! All Jet Li fans will not be disapointed!!!! "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was very entertaining.  It was a bit hard to swallow with some scenes but then again, look at star wars.  Jet Li did a fantastic job of playing both the good and the bad guys.  Delroy Lindo and Jason Statham also played their characters well.  I would recommend this movie as a rental or as a purchase. "},{"Title":"A big let down - This was not the one to spend money to see!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a thorough diappointment. There was no development of the story. Viewers were thrown into the story without explanation and left to fend for themselves in trying to work out what was going on. The action sequences were okay but confusing. They weren't The Matrix and they weren't Crouching Tiger. This movie is best left to cable tv where you don't have to pay to see it or convincing a friend that they should hire it and then go over and watch it. As a huge Jet Li fan, I expected more. How can someone involved with Once Upon a Time in China put his name to this one??? "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly lackluster","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yea, the plot sucked right off the bat.  It was inconsistent and full of holes; I wouldn't have minded that in an action flick except that it wasn't a particularly interesting plot either.  The Matrix had its share of holes but the basic premise of the plot was intriguing enough to carry the movie.Fortunately, The One is redeemed by its awesome action scenes, right?  Not really.  I found the fight scenes to be underwhelming and played out.  What is the point in casting Jet Li, with his remarkable talents, only to drown him in corny CGI effects?  Those of you who love kung-fu action but don't care about plot should go see Iron Monkey instead.Any high points?  Well, it was nice to see that Jet Li actually got the woman this time(well, actually he starts out with her) as opposed to being the silent, soulless, brutal-but-unloved warrior he normally portrays.  And it was also quite funny seeing Jet Li dressed up as alternate versions of himself.I give The One an IMDB rating of 5.Throw in the cheesey, B-movie ending and I downgrade the movie to a 4.  Top it off with JET LI, the only one who could possibly follow Bruce Li's bare-fisted fury, repeatedly uttering I need a gun... and I downgrade it to a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Plot does matter","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The action scenes were great, unfortunately the story was very thin. It just ran out of steam and the movie ended in a very unsatisfying manner. I hope this is not a trend - Matrix action but without a story. The trailers look great but there's no butter on the popcorn! "},{"Title":"Ok futuristic pic","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An ok futuristic action flick with Jet Li as a cop who has to fight his double from a parralel dimension. So-so visuals and fun fight scenes are in this flick that doesnt take full advantage of its concept but is still entertaining enough to pass as mild cinematic experience. GRADE C "},{"Title":"Jet LI is THE ONE","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't know but this movie just kicks butt and I ain't going to lie about it.Jet Li is one of my favorite actors and this is one of his best action movies.I saw this at the movies, I saw the ad for this and thought it was going to be a good movie and it was just as good as they said it was.You seen some of the most creative fight scenes ever in an action movie.The story is very creative with a lot of twist and turns that will shock and thrill you.THE ONE is just one of the most invent movies ever made and I was glad I saw this one at the movies.The action and thrills in THE ONE are good enough to watch this awesome flick of a movie.The movies has some jokes that will make you laugh so hard also.Jet Li has a good cast that star with him in this movie.Overall I enjoy THE ONE at the movies and I enjoy the DVD which if you don't own you need to own THE ONE.THE ONE is a must own for any action movie fan.I give THE ONE a ten out of ten.THE ONE KICKS BUTT!!! "}{"Title":"Jet Li Worked His Tail Off !","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Being a big fan of Jet Li,(Gabe Law/Gabriel Yulaw/Lawless) I found this film outstanding, especially since Jet Li played three(3) different roles in this picture. Jet Li actually worked his butt off trying to enact the different characters in this film along with his great acting and artistic combat abilities. There was a great deal of work involved to assist Jet Li in portraying his different roles, face masks were placed on stunt men to look like the different characters Gabe Law, Gabriel Yulaw and Lawless. There was some great action shots done by wire cables and guys flying through the air in all directions. There was nothing but non-stop action from beginning to the very end and plenty of hot looking chicks. "},{"Title":"Two Jet Li's ain't as good as one","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jet Li is a good cop fighting an alternate reality version of himself in James Wong and Glen Morgons worst outing. I wrote of how The One is the worst Morgan/Wong movie in previous other reviews of their films, now it's time to tackle the bull by the horns.The movie starts with a clip of President Gore on the TV. That made me laugh, to think that bum could be commender in chief in ANY one of the multi-verses is just plain silly. And quicker then you can say crappy, overplayed metal music here's Jet Li fighting to such faux metal pretenders as Disturbed, Drowning Pool, and Papa Roach. Let me stifle this yawn.. This is a sub-par movie that had the vast misfortune of opening very close to when another much better Jet Li film came out, Kiss of The Dragon which made this One seem worse still.My Grade C+ DVD Extras Director and crew commentary; 'Jet Li is The One' featurette; Multiverses featurette; About face featurette; the many faces of Jet Li; Animantic Comparison; filmographies; Theatrical Trailer Easter Eggs At the first screen of special features press right an highlight Jet Li's chest to get more Jet Li interview; on the second page press up to highlight The One logo to see an interview with American Movie's Mark Borchardt. "},{"Title":"Please, not another....","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ...another twins and identity confusion movie! If you are offended by Hollywood churning out movie after movie with the same ideas, do yourself a favor and pass on this one.What you will avoid two identically looking dudes, one good the other evil, have at each other. Everybody else shoots at the good guy.In the end, there is the big, final fight between the good and the bad. Ummm... yeah, we might have seen that one, already, here and there.Sure, there are fight scenes, car chases, guns and violence, but they are the only content of this movie. And you must admit, it's not a very original content. "},{"Title":"Instantly forgettable fun with silly plot but some good fights","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The universe we know is only one of many parallel universes that contain an infinite number of possibilities for each person. These universes are policed to prevent people slipping between them and their number one target is an ex-agent, Gabriel Yulaw, who was once forced to kill a version of himself and grew stronger as a result. With this knowledge he sets out to kill all of his versions until only he is left &#150; agents Roedecker and Funsch try to stop him. With only one version of himself left, Gabriel goes after Gabe Law, a police officer who is also growing in power but cannot understand the significance of the fight that is coming to him.I like a bit of martial arts and it is only a bit of a shame that Hollywood is so rarely the best place to get it &#150; even lifting directing and performing talent from the far east, the American films seem to too-often miss the mark. So it was with this film in that it is fun but not great, exciting but not spectacular, enjoyable but instantly forgettable. The plot is a bit of a twist on ideas we've seen before and it is, as you'd expect, full of holes of the plot-variety (as opposed to those of the black or worm variety). Close consideration of the story will just fill you with confusion and the very same issues that prevent them just killing Gabriel during the film are just forgotten about by the end! However if you sit and fume over this then you are missing the point &#150; this film is about the action rather than the plot. As such it does OK &#150; it is fun and has a few big fights even if it doesn't compare to Li's better films (not by a long way). The use of CGI is a little annoying but is not too bad, some of the fights are spoilt by the effects simply because it takes away from the ability of those involved. Li only really gets to shine in the fight with himself &#150; which is better than it sounds!In such an action film the cast have little to do but are actually OK here. Li is good at the action but only average at everything else &#150; his acting is weak and he isn't able to do multiple characters, eg we know the bad version because he just sneers all the time! Lindo teams up again with him and adds a bit of class to the film but it is Statham who is better value and has a good screen presence even if he really is just a one-trick pony thus far. Outside of these the support is run of the mill &#150; the film could have showcased Li as an actor but it doesn't &#150; this is not about performances, it is about action and, accordingly, the performances aren't very good.Overall this is a good Saturday night film to have on if you are looking to veg (as I was). The plot is full of holes and the performances are weak but that is not the point of the film. The action is good enough to pass even if it doesn't stand up to the best of Li's work. Martial arts fans will be p*ssed off at the use of CGI and the fact that yet another American film fails to use Li well but most viewers will just enjoy it for what it is &#150; a silly action movie that is fun to watch but will be forgotten before you have even returned it to the rental store.  "},{"Title":"A Good Action Movie Lots Of Stunt`s & Special Effects","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  this was really good a guy i know said why do you like this and not crouching tiger it`s the same style of fighting running through mid air and all that malarky. well the reason i like this and the reason i HATE crouching tiger is - the one is far far superior to that  movie a lot of people will disagree but well what can i do about that it`s the way i feel. this film will be in my dvd collection but tiger will not EVER !!!!!!.i watched crouching tiger for about 30 odd minutes and that was all i could take even the lovely Zhang ZIYI could not save this movie (tiger) any way enough of that muck on with the comment`s on this movie.if you like action movies then this will be right up your street ). one of the best action movie`s i`ve seen in age`s a lot of far fetched stunt scene`s but that is what made this movie enjoyable a fantasy action film better than most of the muck that hollywood can throw our way.a couple of humourous part`s in it as well i will not give away too much but one funny part was were Li was in a body bag listening to these to goon`s talking s*** and what happen`s after he`s had enough of i ). rating for this movie 8/10.not going to have a big review of this movie because there`s no need to if you like action film`s then go watch this you should like it .  "},{"Title":"Really an insult to the genre","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie put me to sleep.  I have enjoyed Jet Li in other movies but he really must pick better storylines.  This was just dumb.  Fighting yourself.  Aww come bloody on.  All of the plot drags the movie down but the lack of interesting fight scenes finished this one off.  If you want great martial arts check out Legend of Drunken Master or Once Upon a Time in China.  Jet Li needs to chill on the special effects and learn his craft... "},{"Title":"Very impressive graphics...Better than I thought...","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  THE ONE may have a bit of a dumb plot,and some ok acting, but the graphics are very impressive just to look at,and the martial arts incredible too. With the slow motion-fast motion tricks that the matrix used,this movie delivers something good to look at, as does the martial arts. Although Jackie Chan may be a better and a little more fun to watch, Jet Li is also quite good at martial arts as one might think. Overall, rent this movie, it's worth the money and it'll keep you at least entertained in the two ways I mentioned above. "},{"Title":"Brainless and high energy sci-fi/martial arts flick","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One has a plot that has a good amount of loopholes, badly crafted scenes and an ending which had me shaking my head for about 15 minutes afterwards.  It did have a lot of action though, with Jet Li doing his best in martial arts terms, and for fans of him or the genre it might be worth more than a glance.  However, if you can't really stand to see such talent- Li, Delroy Lindo, Jason Statham, and director James (Final Destination) Wong- go to waste, this isn't your movie.  C+ "},{"Title":"Some good special effects, but too predictable.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Aside from some good special effects, there's not much to see here.  The story is predictable and the dialog/acting is not at all impressive.  Unless you're a huge Jet Li fan (this is my first exposure) or have to see every special effect, science fiction movie, then don't bother spending your money on this one. "},{"Title":"Movie was boring, predictable, and a waste of money","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Do not waste your money or your time to see this movie.  Until I saw this movie, I respected James Wong and Jet Li, but now I have lost ALL respect for them.  The special effects were cheap and over-used.  The acting was pathetic throughout the cast.  Jet Li tried to speak English, and he failed miserably.  The plot, which is revealed in the first 3 minutes, is simple, predictable, and painful to sit through.  Do NOT see this movie. "}{"Title":"The One!","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The One of the thousands of bad movies out there. This movie was just utter crap in my opinion. Gosh darnit! I liked Romeo Must Die, I really did, but this movie was a real let down. And I didn't like the reptetitive-ness. It got extremely boring. "},{"Title":"I gave The One a one","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  welcome to one of the worst movies ever.  i saw this knowing beforehand a little bit about the plot and i thought it would be interesting.  WRONG. the whole plot was told before the opening credits by a narrator.  they never put in any plot twists and the rest of the movie was just action scenes.  i will say that the action scenes were cool but they were mostly done by computers and what real hand to hand combat that was done has been done better.  the acting was, as is typical in most action films, not done well.  to make it even more horrible people actually call jet li an actor. so if you want to see this movie for the story just watch the introduction and the end (trust me you're not missing anything in the middle).  if you want to see it for the acting then you have horrible taste in actors. finally, if you want to see it for the action scenes then you should go find another movie. "},{"Title":"I can't believe Jet Li would do this movie","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing the trailer, I thought this movie looked like a cheap bullet-time version of The Matrix. But I still went to see The One with expectations that it might be cool, considering Jet Li is in it, and he's done such great films as The Once Upon a Time in China trilogy. But I went out of the theater feeling like this movie was terrible, thats because it is. I love si-fi, and kung-fu movies, but this movie just didnt' have enough action, and when it did, it was terrible and cheasy. I  understand that while bullet time was created specifically for The Matrix, it wasn't copyrighted, so the filmmakers had the right to  use it, but the bullet time in The One is just terrible, and you can't help but feel that this movie is just trying to cash in on the success of The Matrix, because  thats all it is doing, and in the end all it is is cheap effects, cheap action, cheap movie. They left the film right open for a sequel, but hope they don't even try or think about it, because all this film amounts to is something to throw in your trash can, heck, I don't even thinks its good enough for that. "},{"Title":"No acting, little story, no development, dismissable fight scenes.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A straight line is the shortest way to get from one point to another, explains the evil Jet Li, and this movie still takes a short cut. Even the infamous VanDamme, whose movies don't rate higher than 6 stars on imdb--unless he is a minor character in them, have more plot twists and character development than this waste of money. I can't believe it made over $20M in its opening week-end only on wasted $8.75! *SPOILER* Jet Li comes to town and tries but fails to kill Jet Li, so one of them ends in a hospital, from which he escapes as he is mistaken for the evil one, and when he reaches his house the other Jet Li kills his wife, so Jet Li goes to kick Jet Li's ass. This is the entire story. It's not even summed up--it's all that happens! There is nothing worse than seeing Jet Li fighting a little green man digitally made to look like himself being fought with a slightly different constipated expression--in slow-mo.  "},{"Title":"85 minutes of your life you'll never ever get back","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" OK, there were no redeeming qualities to this movieNONEI went to see this looking only for some good action, not really for a plot or character development, and I was still disappointed. The plot was simply ludicrous, and worse the action was so far over-CG'ed it wasn't impressive or cool to watch. The reason Jet Li is exciting to watch is that he can do things normal people can't at speeds we can't. This awe is totally drained away by the slow motion and totally unbelievable things he does, even worse, he's so inconsistent, one minute he breaks steel shackles, and the next he can hit someone in the face and they recover to hit back. This was poor from minute one when the opening line was read, and the audience laughed...THE OPENING LINE.The highlight of the movie is the laughable scene where they show the Jet Li's in the other universes, including surfer-Li and a blond Li.Overall Jet Li can do better, and so can you for $8.50(1/10) "},{"Title":"The One kung fu movie to avoid","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This has to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I was in 7th grade around the time it was released, and I remember all of my friends thinking this movie was awesome, I certainly didn't. The action is intense, sure, but the whole movie is just a knock off of other sci-fi movies and tries too hard to be like The Matrix.Jet Li playing two people, both hunting each other, is quite interesting, but not interesting enough. The visuals are definitely copied from The Matrix, and the action is too predictable. If you want to see a movie like this that is good then see The Matrix or Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. This is just awful. "},{"Title":"I wish I could unsee this movie","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was the most expensive looking B-movie that I've ever seen. Can somebody explain to me why Jet Li was in it? With all the special effects and the fact that there were maybe 7 minutes of kung-fu action in this movie (most of which was enhanced with CGI and split-speed camerawork) I think just about anyone in Hollywood could have taken on this role. Give it to Vin Diesel or Van Damme next time.I've been a big fan of Li's HK movie work and it seems to me his talent was just wasted here. Hell even his acting (which isn't his strong point) was weaker than average. Then again the one dimensional script and clunky dialogue didn't really leave him (or anyone) much to work with. The concept behind the movie was pretty simple, so why did they need to keep explaining it over and over? I guess that's easier to do then making the script <gasp> interesting.Then there was the typical Hollywood preoccupation with trying to add as much gunfire, explosions and one liners in a poor effort to simulate action and excitement. I wouldn't have finished watching this movie if it wasn't for a hope that at some point it would actually kick in to gear and get good. It never did, making the ending that much more of a lame disappointment. Leaving it open for a sequel? Please, please no! "},{"Title":"Double the action, Double the fun","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The action movie since the Matrix. This movie was nothing but a good time. Jet Li plays Gabe a cop, who is married to a veterinarian. The day starts out like a typical prisoner transfer, until shots get fired and it kills the prisoner, then Gabe discovers those shots were for him. Then Gabe gets a good look at the killer and discovers that he looks amazingly like him. It turns out that double is named Yulaw, and he is from another universe, where every time he kills a double of himself, he gets their strength and speed. Will Gabe defeat Yulaw before he defeats him. I have always enjoyed watching movies with Jet Li but this one was the best. "},{"Title":"Not so hot","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jet Li has to fight himself (Holy Van Damme!) in this wire-fu quickie about alternate universes and people jumping around in them. There is of course a good Li and a bad Li, and I will admit the good Li wasn't half-bad. His English was much better than I expected, based on seeing him in several previous flicks, and he actually acted a bit. The bad Li was a joke. The bad character consisted of a perpetual scowl and little else. Supporting players Delroy Lindo and Jason Statham as quasi-timecops can do nothing to save this flimsy martial arts vehicle. It isn't as bad as TIMECOP 2 with the once-promising Jason Scott Lee, but then, what is? And I guess this flick hasn't hurt Li's career any. So what the hell. Li made himself a few bucks and looks pretty pirouetting his way through an army of bad guys. The film keeps moving, I'll give it that. "},{"Title":"Primitive sci-fi action movie","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" *SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS This little stinker rips off many movies  &#x84; Matrix  , Highlander and even Van Damme's Timecop. The lack of originality wouldn't hurt so much , if the movie was enjoyable . It isn't . It's a big budget B-movie . Crap fest from beginning to end.Director James Wong is mostly known for Final destination . That movie also had ridiculous idea behind the whole plot , yet it was quite enjoyable. Mostly because it had some twists all along the way and characters you could relate to.The One doesn't have anything . The story is predictable from the beginning to the end , unless you have IQ lower than Forrest Gump . The characters aren't written at all . They lack depth and it's sad to see how actors struggle to give them some illusion of humanity.Compared to the movies I've mentioned in the beginning The One sucks terribly . Matrix basically pioneered the whole bullet time effect . The One rips off the bullet time so badly I almost died laughing. Matrix had substance and interesting universe . Don't look for that in The One.Highlander had heart and affecting love story , not to mention great rock songs by Queen . Here the love story is dreadfully generic , the movie has no heart and the soundtrack contains awful modern rock songs.Tmecop had many small twists that made it an enjoyable popcorn movie. Here you can guess every twist from miles away. Just how many times the intergalactic cops had bad Jet Li cornered ? And how many times you knew what will be the result ? The One is incredibly cheesy and annoying . The scene when Jet Li explains how he met his wife is one of the most pretentious scenes I have ever seen . The humor is incredibly cheap (I will show you how to kill him) . The drama feels fake . There is no real plot and the characters just are . The double ending is laughable and sets a way for possible sequel (NOOOOOOOO!) I don't even want to waste time at some of the stupidity here . Why does Jason Statham talks to another version of Delroy Lindo about how much he respects him ? It's isn't HIS Lindo so why waste time ?! The good Jet Li without any training is EQUAL to the bad Jet Li who gained power from killing 123 victims (or something like that ). How ?! How does bad Jet Li know where the good one lives ? Why the multiverse government at the end sends the bad Jet Li to another planet instead of just killing him ?! Aren't they afraid that he will escape ?! Instead the were very eager to kill the good Jet Li who helped defeat him ?! I have to admit that the fights look really nice and they are photographed in a way that allows you to clearly see what is going on (something you can't always say about modern action movie with quick cut montage). Too bad that's the only good thing in the movie.I give it 1/10. "}{"Title":"Awful, boring, pathetic","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The good The effects of going between universes are kind of cool The bad Action that fails to excite, weak acting, poor script, Quite simple It's been done before, and done better.I like to say this to people Just because a movie is full of action and special effects and uses the plot as glue to hold it together, doesn't mean it sucks. As long as I don't care about the plot, the film works.There are films that work with action and plot together to create a masterpiece The Matrix, for example. There are films that center on plot and characters to create a compelling piece of entertainment. There are films that center on action, and forget about creating a great plot to create a roller-coaster ride to thrill the viewer, for example, Transformers. There are films that just flop on all counts. This is one of those films.The action is boring, the superhuman One is clearly taken from THE Matrix, The parallel universe idea is kind of cool, but this is just made boring by the chase mentality. The special effects are just lame, so the only thing to save it would be the characters. The characters could be said to be bland, but it goes beyond bland. It's flat out pathetic how dumb and lame this film is in its characters.Bottom Line STAY AWAY! "},{"Title":"The one to miss","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What do you do if you're discovering that you are chasing yourself? The cop Gabe suddenly faces himself, even a supernatural version. This is because he has killed himself in a lot of parallel universes and now is about to become the One; the strongest of himself. Confused? Don't worry; the story is one big gap of plot holes and the mindless so called action is action for dummies. The problem is that if feels more like watching a computer game, but you can't interfere. Even if you're just watching it as an ordinary action film, it isn't even enjoyable.Even the fact that Jason Statham is in it, not even make it better. He is cool as always, but can't save this dreadful disaster! THE ONE is with no doubt one of the worst films I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"On a scale of One To Ten, The One lives up to its name","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I love watching Jet Li on the screen..  Or at least I used to, but his recent movies have been getting worse and worse.  When I saw the previews for The One, I had fairly high expectations.  I saw where the film _could_ have gone with the concept, but when I got to the theater and saw the first 2 minutes, where it explained the simple plot outright, for the single-digit-IQ portion of the audience, I saw how bad it was likely to be, and an hour and a half later, I realized how accurately the first 2 minutes framed the movie.  It was inconsistent, poorly thought out (or not at all), and poorly acted (Jet Li can't play a bad guy to save his life).  Even the action scenes weren't all that good.  Unfortunately, there were essentially no redeeming qualities in this movie. "},{"Title":"The One to avoid!!!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I sincerely wish Jet Li all the best, but this movie is nothing short of unoriginal. First, there are extreme similarities with the movie Highlander like in this story, there can be only One (I'm sure you know the story from the other reviews)  and the end- battle is also the same storyline. Further there come the Matrix again with all the uniformed men and the shooting and the walking against walls by Jet Li. If you love stuff like this, it's ok. If you want something original, than wait and hope the action-genre makers stop mixing the same movies together and serve them as something new. I hope Li can show his talents in a better storyline next time. "},{"Title":"will make you miss the days when kung-fu movies were about kung-fu","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How does this movie rip off the Matrix is a big mystery to me, because that movie holds a very dear place in my heart, and there is nothing I like about this one. There is something very horrible about Chinese kung-fu when it gets down to speed up the frames per second. It can then only get worse by closing up on the actor's face and ignore the movement of the body, only through which the beauty of the martial art is entirely expressed. There is no better way to enjoy stunt man Jackie Chan's Legend of the Drunken Master, or for that matter, German stunt man Hardy Martins' Cascadeur, than after watching speedy frames Donnie Yen in Iron Monkey, or wired-up Jet Li in The One. This movie masterfully accomplishes both mistakes of ugly martial arts, and whether the tomatoes should be thrown at director James Wong, cinematographer Robert McLachlan, the producers, or star and action choreographer(?) Jet Li is sadly unclear--but, tomatoes still need to be thrown at someone. It's only unfortunate that Mr. Li, whom I eternally respect for his work in the Once Upon a Time in China series--which are sped up and wired, but somehow legit, was unable to bring that tradition into this movie. Somehow American special effect martial art movies are bogged down to Wesley Snipes' Blade's level of techno-corniness. Sadly unbelievable yet true, even karate aficionado Wesley Snipes's Blade had more entertainment value than renown kung fu expert and kung fu movie superstar Jet Li's The One. Special effect kung fu movies never seem able to do justice to both, and often either aspects. Crouching Tiger and Hidden Dragon was justly mocked by Geicko. Even my dearly beloved Matrix fails in kung-fu where special effects prevail. No Neo, you do not know kung-fu.  "},{"Title":"A total waste of time!!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie sucks!! The story is boring, the actors are useless and the direction utterly confusing! When you finally think that you know who's the good guy and who's the bad guy....think again! There is no chance to keep track of who's who here! Come on! Not that anybody cares, but they could at least have made a try. People that watch these kind of movies only do so because of the fights, I've realized that now, and the fights are the only thing worth watching at all here, so I guess they'll be pleased. But for me its two hours wasted on crap!As for me watching this movie...well I certainly wouldn't have if I knew what I was up for! I should have learned by now! Anyway, this is definitely the last movie I'll see starring Jet Li!! "},{"Title":"The One Adds Up To None","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  `The One' is just another film that puts the Sci-Fi genre to shame. The basic plot is Jet Li is this guy who wants to destroy the other Jet Lis that exist in parallel universes in order to become, &#145;The One.' However, he's got a little problem, there's a whole agency to police travel between these universes, i.e. just take the fundamentals from `Time Cop' and make it about universes, not time.A lot of people called this to a &#145;B' movie, and in all seriousness it is. It is a &#145;B' movie with some very nice computer work. The plot has been shot through with so many holes (much like the entire supporting cast), that its just irritating. So, if you kill the other 120-some-odd yous, you'd become The One. Basically, if another you dies anywhere in the `multiverse,' you get their wisdom, strength, speed, etc.One huge hole they never bother to cover is the fact in the theory that this movie is based on, if you outlive all the other yous and live say, to 100 or something&#133; You'd technically become The One, and be the fastest and strongest person to ever exist. I don't know about you, but I'd personally love to see senior citizens kick some whippersnapper keester Jet Li-style. But, come on... It's just not going to happen. The action was pretty decent, though, I got to admit. I just require more than action. The One, as it deserves - one star out of four.This is nonsensical Sci-Fi gibberish. If you want to see a good Sci-Fi film see The Road Warrior, Six-String Samurai, or The Empire Strikes Back.  "},{"Title":"This is Definitely NOT THE ONE Movie To See!!!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well hate to burst everyone's bubbles with this opinion. But the movie was horrid! I mean I like some of the story line but it was done better as Time Cop or one of the other cheesy movies with the same plot line. The special effects were impossible to sit through. If there is one person out there that can tell me that they thought those two bikes Jet Li held and smacked the guy with looked real, then you seriously need to get your eyes examined. The effects were nothing better than what were available during the Conan the Barbarian era and the plot wore very thing pretty quickly. If Jet Li passed on Crouching Tiger to do this movie then I dread to think what he might want to do next. If you really want to see a new Jet Li movie then go ahead and watch this flick, if you just want to see a new martial arts film then you may definitely want to pass!!! "},{"Title":"The Suck","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a landmark in the art of disappointment.  It features slightly less character development than your average Beavis and Butthead cartoon, and the weak storysquiggle (it doesn't deserve to be called a storyline) is almost as intelligent.  The script alone is an atrocity, possibly the actors can't find anything of depth to say because they are dumbfounded by the obscenely cheesy plot development.  Although the movie makes a feeble attempt at copying The Matrix's groundbreaking Bullet Time photography techniques, that is not enough to excite the annoyed audience, unless they happen to be either prepubescent children or a high school football team, with cheerleaders.  That not being enough, the movie further disgraces itself by being titled The One, whoever thought up this pile of reeking fewmets is suffering from severe Matrix envy.  You hope that the special effects will in some way redeem the disaster, but soon you realize that the highlight of the movie is the wormhole travel sequences.  Unfortunately these are few and far between.  Sadly, in the few alternate universes you are privileged to see, the only memorable difference seems to be that Gore is president in one.  Honestly, the movie might have been improved with some slightly more interesting weapons, but apparently the highly advanced multiverse agent's weapons are just the same old boring bullet firing guns. The main focus of this film seems to be to achieve mediocrity, which it does with an ease and grace wonderful to behold.  James Wong (director) has efficiently succeeded in thoroughly shaming himself and everyone else involved in this magnificent journey into obscurity.  I must congratulate him, I haven't seen a movie that is so easy to ridicule since the release of the unmemorable and odious Battlefield Earth.  This is one of those extraordinary movies where the trailer is actually far superior to the actual film!  In conclusion, I think I'll rate this movie.  Rated on a scale of 1 to 10, I think this movie deserves a nice, round number.  Like 0.  0 is nice and round, a perfect circle in fact! "},{"Title":"Waste of Time and Painful to Watch","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's might be a little harsh to say this, but this truly, truly did rip-off many better Action / Science Fiction movies. The main character flies and dodges bullets in slow-motion ( often very lame when compared to The Matrix ), time-traveling cops go after the main protagonist/antagonist ( rip-off of the dumb Jean-Claude Van Damme vehicle, TimeCop ), the main character, played by Jet Li, who does what he can with the absurd material, has to fight a evil version of himself ( again, ripped off from way better pictures) and, once again, Delroy Lindo ( RANSOM, Get Shorty ) is once again in this movie; this being the second picture he co-stared with Li in, the first being the also awful Romeo Must Die. Anyway, he does what he can to survive in this crap fest along with two other stars.Their names are Carla Cugino ( Spy Kids trilogy, SIN CITY ) and Jason Statham ( The Transporter, THE Italian JOB ) and they also can't save this film from being completely stupid either. ( Quick Fact Statham would later co-star once again with Jet Li in the slightly better, but still mediocre 2007 flick War)The reason I rate this film so bad is that it's just like a time-travel story of a certain SciFI show like STAR TREK The Next Generation or Stargate SG-1, just poorly written and executed with awful heavy-metal and hard, rock n' roll music and god-awful special effects.People probably just wanted to see Kung-Fu favorite Jet Li come and whoop everyone's butt. And if you only came here for that, then you're also out of luck seeming how Li once again uses Computer Animation to do all his wacky moves ( which is also partly why Romeo Must Die was a dud) and you don't believe for a second he could do that seeming how it's all fake-looking. Li use to use Wire-Fu ( where Martial Artists fight in the air using wires and Wushu skills; for a common example, watch one of Li's or Jackie Chan's early movies or even The Matrix ) all the time and sometimes he would use grappling techniques, but here he's just causing doubt that he can even be a skilled Kung-Fu guru at all. So when just about every part of the film fails and you can't find anything entertaining about it, then all you can do is just avoid it like the plague. It's not as bad as Howard the Duck or Highlander II, but it's only going to appeal to eleven-year-old kids who have never seen an Action movie. It's that lame so avoid and pick something else better at your movie rental center. If it's on television, change the channel due to the network's lack of quality ( when I saw it, I would have rather saw a dumb Reality- Show then what I saw in this film. Don't even watch if you're curious, just watch something else ! "}{"Title":"Horrible, One of the worst movies i have ever seen","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so dumb. You can tell that everything they do in it is fake. Don't see it ever. It is not worth 1 penny. The story line is really bad and you cant understand half of what they are doing. I give it a 1/10. Very Bad movie! "},{"Title":"A bore...","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Jackie Chan's stunts meet wannabe Highlander and wannabe Matrix in Jean-Claude Van Damme's twin movies' fashion, supported by a nu-metal soundtrack and dimensional travel.That about says it all.This was really a bore with poor acting and rip-offs everywhere. There were other references for Van Dammes movies and the final fight scene was almost directly taken from one of the Van Damme's movies as well (though I don't recall which one)... So, even if the first paragraph intrigues you, think twice before seeing this, because it wasn't even funny. "},{"Title":"one of the most meaningless sci-fi films","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A very very bad movie, to start with.Did you know jet Li would have been acting in Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon if he hadn't accept his role in this movie.The movie is basically flawed technically, most importantly logically. You will be saying like; how stupid was that, honey and laughing. You will be thinking about the stupidity of the just-gone-by scene and you will miss the next 2 scenes. The story hangs with a weak pathetic plot. Even a kid will find it stupid, enough.The action sequence are not that impressive.. its the usual , usual. there is no action sequence that will make you suddenly jerk from your sofa ,saying wow.Altogether a waste of time. "}]