[{"Title":"Try as I might I just can't hate it!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"52 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I first heard about Scooby Doo being turned into a movie, I will confess to being rather reticent about seeing it. I am just old enough to remember the original Scooby Doo cartoons on rerun, and was at the high end of the right target age group when Scrappy Doo hit the scene, and of course remembered Scooby Doo with a certain love. Of course, the cartoon was actually pretty terrible; the writing was bad, the cliches came in at a rate of knots, and the animation was second rate... but that's what we all expected of Hanna-Barbara cartoons.I digress I had heard about SD the movie on the Internet quite early in production and let out a groan; my childhood was being raped again for a buck in Hollywood. Why? Why bother??? Then when I heard Scooby was going to be CGI I actually groaned again. Of course, there is no other way you could have pulled Scoob off on-screen without CGI, at least not realistically... but CGI... that's just so passe any more! I still enjoy the artistry in modern CGI, but to me it felt like SD was going to be done just to prove that it COULD be done with modern technology... not to tell a story.So it came, I read a few online reviews that panned it and failed to be surprised. I caught the trailers and failed to be inspired. I steadfastly avoided the movie theatres and just didn't go see it.Fast forward to July of 2003; SD is playing on Cinemax (I think) and I've got some time to kill. Aw, what the hell... could be good for background noise if nothing else...So having sat through SD the Movie, what do I think? Well, as much as I wanted to hate it because it was Hollywood raping my childhood, I just couldn't. I'm not going to say I loved it because that wouldn't be true, but I'll be darned if I can't admit that it was a whole hell of a lot better than I expected. Let me fill you in;The cast is incredible. They have a real on-screen chemistry that really makes the movie for me. Especially Matthew Lillard as Shaggy... if he hasn't just completely NAILED the character as perfectly as you could in live action, then I'm the queen of France. There's the romantic attraction between Daphne and Fred that comes out on-screen pretty much throughout, and of course the distant attraction Velma had for Fred is right there too. But do I detect a little bit of an attraction to Shaggy? Don't remember that in the cartoon... but I can accept that.The story? Well, it's a hell of a lot better written than the cartoons! Yes, it borrows heavily from them (and borrows from some of the SD animated movies that have been made in the interim), but still it's an interesting story with a nice twist at the end that had me actually laughing out loud. Not Shakespeare by any stretch of the imagination... but a fun and engaging story that keeps your attention.So what about the CGI Scoob? Wow is all I can say! I don't know what makes it more, the quality of the CGI or the way in which all the actors really made me believe they were sharing the screen with a 6'5 intelligent dog. The interactions were believable, and not once did I catch anyone making the mistake of looking in the wrong place on-screen (which is clearly evident in many instances where CGI characters are used). The personality is captured perfectly and translates Scooby from the two-color animation of my youth to a perfect rendition of how I envisaged him in my minds eye.I'm sure many have heard about them already, but there are plenty of in-jokes that pepper the movie for those willing to pay attention. I won't say they're all laugh-out-loud funny, but they are amusing... and it was obvious pretty early on that the film-makers didn't like Scrappy Doo either (I know I didn't... I didn't even like him as a kid), but rather than pretend he never happened (*cough* Galactica 1980 *cough*) they actually bring him to life in this movie too... and actually he has one of the lines that made me laugh out loud (to those who have seen it, it's the line he never finishes saying...)So did I love it as much as I loved Scooby as a kid? No. The movie was definitely not without flaws, and it did depart from the cartoons in some pretty major ways; for example one of the nice things about the cartoon (looking at it now from an adult's perspective) was that at the end of every episode it was reiterated however lightly that there are no such things as monsters, ghosts, ghouls etc. and that we as people are always responsible for these things. This is something I picked up on as a kid but didn't understand until I was an adult; and kids should be given that reassurance early in life that there are no monsters. The movie departed from that part of the formula... so personally I couldn't recommend the movie to younger (under about 8 or 9) children. However, even with these kids, recommend that a parent watch it with them... but of course there's plenty of adult-type humor in there too that will completely pass the kids by. To me that's the mark of a great kids movie these days; the ability to appeal to all ages.Overall, I'd say a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"SCOOBY ROCKS !!!!","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"48 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I've always been a big fan of horror films and when I was too young to watch them, SCOOBY was my favourite cartoon because it had cool heroes and I could see all sorts of monsters in it. Even now that I'm an adult, I still find a lot of pleasure in watching an episode. Just to say that I wasn't very excited at the perspective of seeing my cult cartoon turned into an unnamable stuff as the first pictures in the magazines announced a visually ridiculous movie with probably (like most of the other TV series adaptations) a boring and incoherent script.When I left the theater, I was in love with this movie. It's a Scooby fan's dream come true.The film's never ridiculous a colourfull and coherent universe was built around the visual of the cartoon. It's a very rare thing but this time, an exact transposition of a cartoon is perfect and doesn't breed an example in visual bad taste.The script intelligently breaks several rules of the cartoon in order to bring more deepness to the characters. For example, Daphne's tired to be the eternal stupid beauty in danger and Velma can't stand Fred's attitude anymore as he always acts as if he had solved the mysteries alone. But these efforts would have been vain if a dream team of actors hadn't been gathered around the hilarious Scooby. Even if the team's composed of five characters, they're all treated with the same importance, and that's rare enough to be underscored.Matthew LILLARD IS Shaggy he reproduces perfectly the attitude of the animated character and his capacity to make you believe in the virtual Scooby is very impressive when he's with him, you feel like if the dog was really on the set. The duo's perfect.Sarah Michelle GELLAR and Freddie PRINZE Jr have a very communicative energy. It's obvious that they had a very good time playing the two beautiful and quite stupid characters of the team. Even if the role of Daphne was written with Buffy references, Sarah Michelle GELLAR succeeds in preserving the essence of the character I never thought about Buffy when I saw her as Daphne.And the last but not the least, Linda CARDELLINI delivers an outstanding performance as Velma. She took the animated character and managed to make her more human, funnier and even touching by bringing all sorts of irresistible details and mimics as for example in the way she laughs or says that she's the most clever of the team. Great job for a great actress.I hope that no sequel will ever reach the screen if any of them is missing from the cast.The story's quite simple but very well paced and entertaining. There are lots of cool dialogues and private jokes for the series' fans. All the gags are in the tone of the cartoon and always effective. I wasn't in favor of the use of martial arts through the character of Daphne but finally, kung fu fits in the universe of SCOOBY DOO as it's used with parsimony to bring a few more good gags.As a conclusion, I would say that SCOOBY DOO's a terrific movie it's fun, fast and very well acted.I found in it everything that made me love the cartoon and even more. Don't miss it if you're a SCOOBY fan you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Scooby rocks!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"31 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I watched Scooby Doo, the cartoon, only with medium level interest as a child, so I went (with my wife and kids) mostly as a kick.  Matthew Lillard is brilliant as Shaggy (how is that possible?  His impersonation skills were flawless!).  The cartoonimation of Scooby and Scrappy Doo were interesting but were so 3-D rendered that they did not match the original 2-D versions very well.  The plot was reasonably interesting and twisted.  No mere disgruntled janitor in a spooky disguise-- there's some evil genius at work. There were some minor plot issues with Velma, Fred, and Daphne having much greater insecurity issues than in the cartoons, but experimenting with such ideas is very cartoon-like.  The set and cast worked very well.  There's some biological humor with Shaggy and Scooby that I did not expect, but the last bit that they did helped.  If you're prudish about gas-passing and belching, there are about 4 minutes you can do without, but they seem very much in character. "},{"Title":"Scooby's a hit on the big-screen","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"33 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie works because it tries to mimic the cartoon in many ways. Even the first shot looks like the first shot of the cartoon with the fog and the creepy old house. I had originally thought that the CGI Scooby would bother me during the movie, but I was completely wrong. I only really thought about that the first time Scooby is shown. After that the dog was Scooby to me because the things he says and the way he says them are accurate to the cartoon. The movie is pure cheese, but so was the cartoon. Scooby-Doo has maybe the most effective farting scene since Blazing Saddles. Most fart scenes just come off as gross and not very funny, but in the world of Scooby a fart scene works. One interesting aspect of the film was seeing Rowan Atkinson in a role where he actually talks...a lot! I hope he gets more chances at dialogue-heavy roles here in the States.  Fred, Daphne, Velma and Shaggy all feel like their cartoon counterparts adding to the effectiveness of the movie. Lillard is amazing as Shaggy because he gets his voice to sound like a carbon-copy of the cartoon Shaggy. This is a fun movie to watch because you can turn your brain off and just enjoy the show. "},{"Title":"I thought it was funny.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This might be a disappointment to die hard Scooby Doo cartoon fans, but I enjoyed it.  I thought the gags were hilarious, and since I never cared for Scrappy Doo, I was especially fond of the end.  I think Matthew Lillard should get an academy award for the way he interacted to a character that wasn't even there.  In my mind, every time I see a Scooby Doo cartoon, I will picture him as Shaggy.  It also brought the characters even more alive for me when the human sides of their personalities came out.  It's really reaching to think that a group of people would be able to spend that much time together and not have individual jealousies and get on each other's nerves.  I can't wait to see the sequel.  "},{"Title":"Actually Pretty Good","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I really think that this movie was pretty good.  Some parts in the movie were really funny.  This casting was also good, the actors played the characters pretty well.  I also think it was funny because in cases they made fun of the cartoon.  Although, I didn't really like the villians.  I could think of some better villians for the movie, but it just made it more interesting in the end.  Over all - my rating 8. "},{"Title":"Good?  No.  Funny?  You bet!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby and the gang investigate a mystery on Spooky Island.OK...this is NOT a good movie.  The jokes are very obvious and the PG rating keeps things very clean and family friendly.  Still, I was laughing a lot.  Maybe it was my mood, but I kept giggling over all the jokes.  It works mostly because the entire cast plays it straight.Sarah Michelle Gellar looks nothing like Daphne in the cartoon, but she is good. Likewise, Freddie Prinze Jr. looks nothing like Fred either, but he's OK.  Matthew Lillard, however, is letter perfect as Shaggy.  Also the woman playing Velma is right on target.  And the CGI Scooby was just great...his expressions and body language provided lots of laughs.  Great special effect and the movie moves quickly.My only real complaint--did we really need a burping/breaking wind contest between Scooby and Shaggy?A very good family movie--I liked it a lot. A very guilty favorite all the way. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby-Doo is a worthy live action film to a brilliant original T.V. showPlot The Mystery Inc. gang have split up and are each off on their own, only Scooby-Doo (Voice of Neil Fanning) and Shaggy (Matthew Lilard) remain together and they own the Mystery Machine. They are called back into action when a strange man shows up and invites them to Spooky Island to solve a mystery. They are convinced when he mentions an all you can eat buffet and are on their way to the airport. There they run into the rest of the gang, Fred (Freddie Prinze Jr.), Velma (Linda Cardellini), and Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar). Still resenting each other they refuse contact and once on the island they meet the owner, Emile Mondavariours (Rowan Atkinson) who informs them of the problem. He believes that somebody is casting a spell on the visitors who come to his resort. Starting off on looking for clues by themselves the gang realizes after a attack that they need to put their differences aside and team up if they ever want to solve the mystery.The Good News This being the motion picture film to a T.V. series that spawned thousands of imitators it had a lot to live up to and it delivers. Since it was released people have bashed this film to pieces, but if you take a minutes and look at it closely it is a pretty underrated film. The actors all do an outstanding job at bringing the gang to life. At first glance Freddie Prinze Jr. may seem like the wrong choice, but he fills Fred's shoes amazingly well with adequate skill. Linda Cardellini portrays the brainy smart Velma we all know, but Linda plays her with a sensitive side which is new and a a nice choice. Sharah Michelle Gellar is the shining light here bringing warmth and believability to her character as Daphne, everyones favorite danger prone female who proves she is tougher than most think in one of the film's best scenes. Matthew Lillard plays Shaggy well and plays off of Scooby-Doo well even though there was nothing there during filming. Lillard's acting is a key success to the film. It doesn't matter how well the CGI Scooby is made Lillard really has to bring it to life by make believing that Scooby is actually there. The whole thing could have gone completely wrong, but luckily this escapes that. Now the question that most people are asking. How does Scooby-Doo stack up? Neil Fanning's has to be the best since the original and the CGI Scooby looks pretty convincing. The action is a big part of this film as it plays a huge part. There are plenty of action scenes to keep you interested. My favorite one probably has to be the castle scene, a ten minute romp where the gang uncovers clues and it all ends in a big bang, but there are many more to more than fulfill your attention. The screenplay keeps thing's nice and simple and so is the direction. Constant and flashy cuts would've gotten in the way here so the direction they took works the best. The film all ends with more action scenes, big bangs, and many great twists. This could've been a lot worse.The Bad News The could've taken out the crude humor, but that's my only complaintConclusion See this at any cost if you are a hardcore Scooby-Doo fan and others will all so want to check this out. RecommendRated PG "},{"Title":"Live action update of Hanna-Barbara's early 70s animated TV series with lots of entertainment and amusement","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The film concerns about our friends who form ¨the Mystery Inc¨ group . After an acrimonious break up, the Mystery Inc. gang are individually brought to an island resort to resolve strange goings on . After two years separated, Fred, Daphne, Velma, Shaggy and Scooby are mysteriously united together to investigate an issue on Spooky Island. As Scooby Doo ,Shaggy (Matthew Lillard) along with the remaining group (Sara Michelle Gellar, Freddie Prince Jr , Linda Cardellini) are back to solve a case that takes place at an eerie island where occurs weird events including some monsters with nefarious purposes . A theme park affects young visitors in very strange ways . But it seems to be they are brought back as one for more than just solving a magical mystery . Meanwhile Shaggy falls in love with a tourist (Isla Fisher). The equipment members are going out to investigate towards the amusement park, whose owner is a suspect man named named Mondavarious(Rowan Atkinson) . He needs their help, figuring out why the vacationers are leaving mellow and sober . The Mystery Inc soon realize that they cannot resolve this enigma without help from each other .In this entertaining picture there are comedy , tongue-in-cheek , slapstick, humorous moments, mild diversion and is pretty amusing. All are given an adolescent treatment which means no gore and no bad language just some old-fashioned likable scares , being funny watching humans meld into the CG characters . However , it contains bad taste when takes place a contest about fart jokes between Shaggy and Scooby. Of course , coward Scooby steals the spectacle as food-obsessed canine anti-hero with its grimace , faces and gesture .Many gags are good however the tale sometimes drags. Special mention to gags between Shagg and Scooby,they make a sympathetic comic couple . Movie combines live action with breezy computer generator animation on Scooby Doo creation , special effects are well done . The motion picture is regularly directed by Raja Gosnell who also filmed the follow-up . Kiddies may find the corny, flat humor and bemusing situations , but most adults will be disappointed , exception for the fans the classic cartoon series created by Hanna Barbera. Rating  average but entertaining and clearly aimed at the junior audience . Protagonists' antics might provide the silly smiles , but this cartoonist physical comedy is mostly ineffective . It's followed by a second part in similar style , cast and realization , titled ¨Scooby Doo unleashed¨ with lots of fun and as amused as the first , and will be best appreciated by preteen enthusiasts of the cartoon movies . "},{"Title":"Better than I expected.","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, this film is rather sophmoric, but some of the jokes actually were effective, the special effects were very good (except for scooby-doo himself, who looked like something made on a home computer), and the creature designs were very creative. The cast is also quite good. So, if you can over-look scooby-doo himself, just appreciate it for what it is a enjoyable remake of the TV series. "}{"Title":"A little silly at times, but a colourful and amusing film.","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This film is nowhere near as bad as the rating suggests, sure it isn't flawless, but a good film doesn't need to be that to be enjoyable. I thought Scooby Doo a colourful film, with some good direction, and very good performances from all involved. The best of the cast were Matthew Lilliard as Shaggy and Sarah Michelle Gellar as Daphne, and Rowan Atkinson is amusing as Mondavarious. The film is very amusing at times, especially the scene when Scooby dresses as a Grandma and the scenes in the haunted house. The actress of Mary-Jane is very sweet too. But I will say that the film isn't without its flaws. The plot is a little far-fetched, and some of the farting jokes are very silly. There have been complaints of the Scooby Doo model being charmless, but I disagree. He was quite sweet at times. The only character I didn't really like that much was Scrappy, then again I never did like him, not even in the animated series. Despite these flaws, this film is not bad at all, and I will award a 7/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"No Mystery Whatsoever","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Huh... This wasn't much a mystery, I must admit. You have no mystery at all, actually. In fact, WTF was the storyline, again? Like you have A huge computer animated monsrtocity in the middle of the screen, and you call it the main character. The jokes weren't even original. They were more like old Shakespeare jokes that the villain would chuckle. Or at least, something from the sixties. Wait... I've laughed at a few things from the sixties. Plus... there's a big thing about real monsters and spirits added in. I actually like the good old idea of taking off the mask to reveal some hick in a costume. Why couldn't there be any clues, any costumes that have style? "},{"Title":"What were they thinking??","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Hanna and Barbera are probably rolling in their graves. First of all, let me say that I'm a 25 year old guy (with bad taste) who's been a fan of Scooby Doo since I was born. I've anxiously been awaiting this film since Mike Myers began working on scripts for it years back. I wanna know what the hell happened to his scripts. Although I can't see him as Shaggy (Matt Lillard was perfect in the role), perhaps if they had stuck to Myers' script, the film would have been good instead of the PoS it turned out to be. I promised my sisters' kids I would take them to see it, but after some of the stuff I had heard, I wanted to preview it before taking them (I figured I'd wanna see it again anyway - boy was I wrong!). Turns out it was no worse than the kids' endless viewings of Dumb and Dumber on TBS, so I had to sit through this piece of crap twice....what a waste of 3 hours of my life.First of all, the good things about the film. Matthew Lillard was phenomenal as Shaggy - the movie's only saving grace. The woman who played Velma was also well-cast, though she didn't quite command the same presence Lillard has. Rowan Atkins also gives a good, but small, performance as the owner of the amusement park. The special FX ranged from excellent to abysmally computerized, though Scooby was better animated than I initially expected. And the scene in the castle was beautifully filmed, with a roller-coaster ride of good effects (and one of the only jokes I found amusing - about drinking out of the toilet). The only other joke that I found great amusement in (which flies over the heads of children) is a reference early on to Shaggy being the stoner that everyone's always assumed he is. That's about it for the good qualities, so on to the bad (which I could write a book about).I could say that Gellar and Prinze were miscast, but after two viewings, I don't think that was the problem. The problem was that they were both badly written/directed. Prinze's Freddy went from being the self-assured leader he was in the show to an ego-maniacal buffoon. Gellar's Daphne became far whinier and self-involved than the character ever was (with the exception of A Pup Named SD), which made her far less sympathetic than she should have been. The addition of Scrappy to the cast was a forced and unfunny cop-out. The fact that he's probably the most hated cartoon character of all-time didn't justify using him the way they did (and I'm among his haters).The script is awful. Bad jokes sporadically thrown throughout the film, which were vulgar and tasteless, made me consider walking out the first time I saw it - and I've never considered walking out on any film I've seen, no matter how bad it was. The farting/belching/peeing scenes were what both audiences laughed most at, though for the life of me, I can't understand why. For them to go to such juvenile lengths to draw laughs, it should prove how bad the script was. And it's a sad commentary on America's sense of humor...the majority of people in both audiences appeared to be around my age.And then there was the profanity. Daphne utters a line about opening a can of whoop-ass. Freddy says something about a byotch. And the villain says he would've gotten away with it if it weren't for you meddling sons of... (at which point he's cut off). I use profanity every day of my life so I wasn't offended, but it had no place in this film (and the kids left reciting Daphne's line).The music is atrocious. With the exception of the David Newman score and around three songs (Simple Plan's Grow Up, Allstars' Bump in the Night, and MXPX's SD, Where Are You? cover) plus a clever cameo by Sugar Ray (who are far underused), the majority of the songs are insufferable rap songs. Don't get me wrong, I have nothing against rap when you can understand what they're saying. But the rap songs here are garbled garbage. Where's Will Smith when you need him (doing the deplorable, almost-as-bad-as-this MIB II...)? Even the clever lyrics of Outkast's Land of a Million Drums (which plays over the end credits) can't justify the intolerable rapping. It also seems odd with their appearance in the film that Sugar Ray didn't write an original song, instead recycling a song off of a 9 month old album (though the song was probably new when they began filming, but still...).It's really sad that a generation of kids are being exposed to THIS variation of Scooby, rather than any of the classic cartoons - even Scooby and Scrappy-Doo (the most deplorable of all the series) was better than this. And it's sad that such a talented cast was wasted. It's sad that as a hardcore SD fan, I'd give this a two out of ten score (solely based on Shaggy and Velma's performances, otherwise it would be none out of ten). But the saddest thing of all is that they'll probably go on to do more sequels of this caliber... "},{"Title":"Much More Entertaining Than Expected","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Story The gangs got invited to the themes park of Spooky Island to solve the mysteries, as it seem that who ever visit the island go back home in a very odd behavior.Though it kind of pretty weird watching it at first, you will used to it and somehow I did quite find it pretty enjoyable and it did stick pretty good to the cartoon story, that the reason I like it.The cast was alright, actually it better than expected, Velma look-a-like the most. And Scooby-Doo did work pretty well. The only problem was with the character like Scabby Doo and the ending might not appealed the kids that much. Otherwise it alright.Recommendation Though it got pretty low rating here, I still recommend it for the kid.Rating 6.5/10 (Grade C+) "},{"Title":"Subtly Subversive Scooby Doobie Doo","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Upon second stoned viewing my endearment is renewed. The marijuana references will fly above the wee ones' little noggins. For the rest of us, it's a quintessential high home entertainment experience. Whereas the vulnerable compromised mind might panic from genuine chills and thrills, the mild scares herein enhanced by intoxication fit just right. The golden twosome, Fred and Daphne are himbo and bimbo incarnate, while Velma predictably suffers from mortal cartoon myopia and a body of knowledge limited only by plot requirements. Stoner stars, Shaggy and Scooby are happily single-minded in their pursuit of munchies, while remaining lovably selfish and craven. Ultimately, the crew rises to the occasion even if it requires slight departure from caricature. With suitable scatologies, Scooby's infectious cackle, and single-minded snack fixation, it's a runderful romp, not to be enjoyed sober. P.S. Cartoonish CGI complements the mood, so don't have a cow about it, okay? "},{"Title":"THIS is Scooby-Doo?","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Correct me if I'm wrong, but always in the end of Scooby-Doo mysteries, weren't the spirits, ghosts, and ghouls always explainable?  There were never really any ghosts, but rather people just feigning as them.Major, major spoilers.Scooby Doo the movie is a terrible version of the old cartoons.  I'm not too familiar with the old series, but I know for sure that there were NEVER ghosts or hauntings or anything of the sort.  However, Scooby Doo the movie breaks into more foolish ground by changing all that, flinging the series into a sort of stupid science fiction fantasy movie.  We have large gremlin-looking creatures that want to take over the world (and they aren't masks), and PROTOPLASMS, which supposedly make up the soul of a human being.WRONG!  A protoplasm is the essential living thing inside a CELL.  Not a person.  Somebody didn't do enough research!  It was almost as if they used the word protoplasm just to sound cool.  Why, when a little bit of skimming through a dictionary will prove that you're a total idiot who hasn't done any research?Scooby Doo is a movie filled with assumptions, crummy jokes, and a really perverted Fred, who wasn't like that at all in the series.  The mystery is so lame that no clues were needed to solve it.  It was just WHAM! and the bad guy came out of hiding.One part I did like, though, was when the whole group entered the haunted castle.  It was rather thrilling for a moment, while the axes were swinging, the roller coaster was blasting forward, and Shaggy and Scooby were stuck on a wall.  The music was really good, too, I think.  But that's about the only good thing about the entire movie.Scooby Doo was one of the worst CGI characters I have ever seen.  They might have done better with a real dog, and not some plastic-looking CGI dog that could walk like a human.  I understand the original Scooby could, but that was the original, and it was a cartoon.  This is much different with live action.And the villain was so poorly introduced.  Even Count Dooku from Star Wars Attack of the Clones had a longer run time!  Scrappy was only seen for a few moments, and only from a story told by one of the characters.  And then he showed up in the end... how stupid!  I'm sorry, but this movie was lacking in depth from every single angle.One other good thing about it, though, is the friendship between Shaggy and Scooby.  Those actors were PERFECT for the roles.  Shaggy sounds just like the original.  I'm impressed.  The antics of Shaggy and Scooby help to lighten the movie and for a while I thought it would bring the movie back up.  But I was wrong.  It lost concentration less than halfway through.Attempts to modernize the movie were poor.  Acting was insufficient (other than Shaggy and Scooby).  Story and plot were crumbling to pieces at the beginning.  The music was decent in some parts, when no rock bands were trying to keep the teenager atmosphere with crummy lyrics and silly music.All in all, Scooby Doo was a total flop.  I'm not sure what happened.  But I know that even I could have done better.  Just by staying true to the cartoon could that have been accomplished. "},{"Title":"This was such a cute movie!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw this in the theaters, and I have to say that the critics were wrong. This was so cheesy. And funny. Just a lot of fun to watch with your friends. It's also a good family movie. They did the ending just right. So, to the sophisticated critics out there, maybe you need to keep your mouths shut and learn that it's the viewer's opinions that count!8/10 "},{"Title":"absolute crap","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie should never have been made. I love the shows, the cartoon movies, lots of Scooby stuff, but this just sucks. They made Fred and Daphne self absorbed idiots, Scrappy a total pain in the butt and Velma a Mega-geek. The only things they did right were (beside the fact that it's under 90 minutes long) Scooby and Shaggy, knowing that they could make a fortune off of screwing up the other four and not Scoob and Shag (knowing whoever wrote the script, that would have made the movie betternote the sarcasm). I would give this stinker a no-star rating, but I had to give it at least one.* out of *****. "},{"Title":"Scooby Does NOT...","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Forget the HYPE, this movie stinks!  It doesn't know which audience to play for 3 year olds or adults.  It also doesn't know whether it should be campy or cartoonish.  It's a jumbled mess that only did well because of the Very LARGE and VERY EXPENSIVE marketing. If you want something to keep the kids busy, spend the money on a new toy and watch the cartoon! My rating 1...HORRIBLE DESPITE HYPE!  "},{"Title":"I don't like this film.  Not at all.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Lame.  Shockingly lame.  Lame beyond belief.And cynical, too - Hollywood at its most exploitative and greedy.The original cartoons were no great shakes, but this... this really lowers the bar for TV nostalgia cash-ins.And to think that Rowan Atkinson used to be funny.  "}{"Title":"The Scooby Doo Doo","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Sigh... This joke has been done before, but there's more Doo Doo than Scooby and there's more Crappy than Scrappy..Where do I begin? I'm torturing myself just to review my thoughts on this film for you guys. Just going to hop straight into it.The beginning starts off with a bloody hip hop yo yo Scoob piece of crap. The song sounds cheap and too modern for my liking. Representing the kids nowadays and their love for Drake and Kanye West. Surprisingly enough, it ends at the typical scooby episode with Daphne already bloody captured by nothing. Why do I say nothing, because the CGI is horrible. I've seen better CGI In goldeneye's opening sequence. I mean dear god! The ghost looks like a stock footage paste in and doesn't fit in with the background. Scooby now looks like a freakish dog mutant. There are such pleasant images in this film for its crappy cgi. Also makes no sense how they literally quit after completing the mystery. Even worse than the reason of why Spider Man quit in Spider Man 2!Since I'm bored of reviewing this awful excuse I'm just going to say that the monster is REAL and the bloody villain is Scrappy. Everyone is out of character, they'd never do what they did to scrappy on the original franchise. This film can go to hell... "},{"Title":"A movie strictly for the little one's","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Rating-3/10Yes, I have given this movie the highest kind of 3/10 and that really shows this film is bad, but actually somehow a strong kind of bad. Scooby-Doo the movie is really not all that great and suffers greatly as it is basically created so only kids can truly enjoy it, and kids might not anyway. Adults be foreworn, this is not a funny movie and not that well done, fun time but definitely not good whatsoever.The cast of the movie seem to have a great time and the characters do work well, only problem is it isn't acted well and stars such as Freddie Prinze Jr and Sarah Michelle Gellar don't contribute enough or much at all to the cause. On a positive note I felt Matthew Lillard does well as Shaggy and his crazy feel is pretty nice to see not to mention the spot on voice he does in which he fits into the role well. I quite liked Rowan Atkinson's role in the movie, he isn't in it near enough but he does what you would expect of him, just gets brought down with the film itself.Raja Gosnell directs this just a little too fast and makes it feel too much like he asked some kids to help out, yet again only for kids this movie. The writing Is also the same story as the direction and it is just not well done, it does a better job than the directing yet still comes up with nothing to save this. I think it just feels too much like a typical adventure film and one that I feel I have seen before, even if this is distinctly Scooby-Doo.I did like the setting of the film and the location is picked perfectly for what they are trying to do, only problem is that the effects are pretty poor(OK it was 2002, but still designed a bit silly). I felt the animated version of Scooby was OK and actually with this Scooby-Doo truly isn't the main character, although he figures in the majority of the plot. If you watch this or have watched it then the costumes are one of the main memorable things, they are truly ridiculous and although yes the same as the cartoon clothes, just look insane in real life.I said before about kids enjoying it and they should, the jokes are crude in a child's kind of way and the characters are fun I would think for maybe a 5 year old. There is no doubt the producers wanted a family friendly movie here but I must add that this does have some more extreme versions of the things encountered in the cartoons so for scared little children, this could actually give them a fright. So overall Scooby-Doo is a passable piece of entertainment and one film I will quickly forget, it is just too lousy and stale to be a movie that succeeds and although this did do well at the box office, don't let it fool you. It even spawned a sequel but again I will say don't let it fool you, for too long movies have been made with no direction or edge and this is among them, fun I can say yes but an insult to your humour, well a definite yes on that one. "},{"Title":"Is there a gap in the unborn foetus market?","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The original Scooby-Doo television cartoon series was part of my childhood in the seventies, but I cannot say that it was a part I remember with any great affection. For those too young to remember it, it revolved around the doings of four young people (of college student age) who collectively called themselves Mystery Inc and roamed across America in a flower-power camper van, solving mysteries along the way. The four were Freddie (handsome upper-class WASP boy), Daphne (pretty upper-class WASP girl), Velma (plain, nerdish, bespectacled intellectual) and Shaggy (spaced-out hippie). They were always accompanied by the title character, Shaggy's large and cowardly dog. (Scooby is officially a Great Dane, but I doubt if he meets the official Kennel Club standard for this particular breed). The main reason why I disliked the seventies cartoon was that I considered it childish. Yes, I know I was only a child myself at the time, but children can be pretty unforgiving of books, films and television programmes they regard as having been aimed at children of a lower age group (or lower IQ group) than themselves. My main problem was that every episode was essentially the same. The mystery would always involve a supposed ghost, monster, or other supernatural creature terrorising the local population. Mystery Inc would begin to investigate and after a plot consisting of much screaming and running away from the creature (and possibly also of Daphne being captured and having to be rescued) the gang would invariably realise that the supposed ghost (or monster, or other supernatural creature) was in reality a flesh-and- blood human being who had assumed this elaborate disguise as part of some dishonest scheme. The episode would end with the villain being unmasked and arrested, normally exclaiming ... and I would have gotten away with it, too, if it hadn't been for you meddling kids!, or some minor variation thereon. Old television cartoons are generally best left to die-hard nostalgia freaks, but Hollywood frequently ignores this piece of received wisdom (as, for example, with the movie versions of The Flintstones and Josie and the Pussycats), and someone evidently thought that Scooby- Doo was a prime candidate for a live-action film series. In the opening scene Mystery Inc are seen ridding a toy factory (owned, rather improbably, by Pamela Anderson) of a ghost which, of course, turns out to be a man dressed up as a ghost. After an argument the group split up, but are reunited when all receive invitations to a theme park named Spooky Island, where the owner, Emile Mondavarious, believes that his guests are falling victim to a mysterious curse and asks the gang to investigate. Which leads to a plot consisting of much screaming and running away from various monsters (and also of Fred and Velma being captured and having to be rescued). Well, actually it gets a lot more complicated than that, but if you want to explore these complications and discover the eventual solution to the mystery you will have to watch the film itself. I just hope it makes more sense to you than it did to me. The original plan was for a knowing, self-mocking postmodernist take on the original, packed with adult humour, and a lesbian affair between Daphne and Velma, but the producers eventually decided on something more family-friendly. Some traces of the original plan survive; Shaggy's pretty blonde girlfriend is named Mary Jane, apparently a drug reference (deriving from the mistaken belief that the word marijuana is a shortened form of Maria Juana). Freddie's nickname for Shaggy, the Shagster, might seem to be another piece of adult humour, but is more probably due to the scriptwriter's ignorance of British slang. (The word shagster does not exist in the dictionary, even in Britain, but over here would be taken to imply someone with a high sex drive). We cannot, of course, be sure how Scooby-Doo might have turned out had the producers stuck to their original intentions, but the result could not possibly have been worse than the film we actually have. The plot is witless, standards of acting are uniformly low and the CGI used to create the monsters and Scooby-Doo himself is ludicrously unconvincing. Even the look of the film, with its hard, bright primary colours, is unattractive. Although the film is supposed to be a comedy, there is very little humour worthy of the name, and attempts to generate laughter, including a farting joke and a urinating joke, generally fall flat. (You have to be Mel Brooks to make cinematic farting funny). Most of the time we are laughing at the film, not with it. Presumably a CGI Scooby-Doo was needed because no real dog would lower himself to appear in this trash, but human actors were obviously not so fussy, and none of them emerges with any credit. Rowan Atkinson on top form can be one of Britain's funniest comedians, so God only knows what he is doing here. Linda Cardellini struggles hard to look plain and dowdy as Velma when she is quite obviously neither of those things. The worst actor on display is probably Freddie Prinze, Jr. (acting alongside his real-life wife Sarah Michelle Gellar as Daphne) who makes Freddie into an obnoxious jerk. The cartoon character was always blond, so Prinze has to be forced into a blond wig as unconvincing as anything else in the film. I said that I found the original cartoon series childish, but compared to this film it looks like the last word in adult sophistication. I am not sure what demographic the film is actually aimed at (apart from those who think that your mom eats cat poop! counts as sparklingly witty repartee). Certainly not adults. Certainly not most children. Toddlers? Infants? Babes in arms? Is there an unexploited gap in the unborn foetus market? 1/10 (Only the fourth occasion on which I have given the minimum mark). "},{"Title":"Hollywood hates natural blondes","Date":"29 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Rarely do I see a blonde character actually cast to a blonde actor. Freddy as Fred is simply awful. In comparison to the cartoon, Fred is scrawny and you can see the dark roots in his eyebrows. This is so so low-rent. The casting is totally typical Hollywood. That's my chief beef. If the rest of the movie was decent, I'd not written this review, but being as p-o'd as I am after wasting a perfectly-good 89 minutes of my life, I couldn't resist the opportunity to rip this piece of junk another one.Freddy as Fred is simply awful. In comparison to the cartoon, Fred is scrawny and you can see the dark roots in his eyebrows. This is so so low-rent. The casting is SO, SO typically Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Affectinate Enough Tribute To Classic Cartoon","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The one thing I always hated about the fondly remembered cartoon series of SCOOBY DOO is when the Mystery Inc team capture the monster and it's revealed that it's a man dressed up . This film version opens with a similar scene of a  Ghost  having his masked pulled off only to reveal it's a man screaming  If it wasn't for those pesky kids I would have got away with it  so thankfully we're not going to be watching a feature film whose only connection with its source material is the title , something like WILD WILD WEST , STARSKY AND HUTCH and THE CHARLIES ANGELS movies all suffer from this As for the cast Freddie Prinze Jr and Matthew Lillard make fairly good jobs in their respective roles as Fred and Shaggy , though Sarah Michelle Geller is slightly to hard faced to be truly convincing as Daphene , possibly the sexiest cartoon character in history . Talking of sexy the major casting disappointment is Linda Cardellini as Velma . I'm sorry but Velma is a short , fat , plain girl with glasses , the sort of girl who ends up a spinster because no man with eyesight would fancy her while Ms Cardellini is far too hot to be playing these type of roles . as for the eponymous Scooby it's noticeable that Casey Kasem isn't doing the voice but that doesn't matter too much while people who complain that Scooby looks too much like a cartoon character seem to be missing the point . Duh he's a cartoon character what'd you expect ? Nice to see Rowan Atkinson appearing too , surely the funniest comedy actor for many a year There might be some problems with the story but this is forgivable since we're talking about a twenty minute cartoon format stretched out into a ninety minute movie but this is an affectionate tribute and the story could have easily come from the classic cartoon series . It didn't win any Oscars but no one expected it to and as pop corn entertainment it works well enough "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'm 42 years old, and grew up watching Scooby Doo. Though I wouldn't classify myself as a die-hard fan, I enjoyed Scooby for what it was; mindless entertainment. Only as I got older did I gain an appreciation for the humorous druggie subtext involving Shaggy, and the questionable sexuality of Velma, not to mention a few other things that may or may not have been pre-planned by Mssrs. Hanna and Barbera. Since this is a family-friendly film, none of these two issues is alluded to in the film, with the minor exception of a funny reference to a certain 'Mary Jane.' When I first got word of a live-action version being planned, I was skeptical. Oh, I knew Scooby could be pulled off with CGI, but my concern was primarily about the casting of the film. Which actors could possibly breath life into these formerly two-dimensional characters and make them real? The choices were somewhat risky, but then again so was the entire premise of a live action Scooby. I'm actually happy to report that the cast does a mostly good job, with two real stand-outs. Freddie Prinze, Jr. is passable as Fred (though a little slight on the physical side compared to his more muscular animated counterpart) and Sarah Michelle Gellar is all right as Daphne, though not quite blonde enough to be true to the cartoon version. The true stand-outs are Linda Cardellini as Velma and Matthew Lillard as Shaggy.The heart and soul of the entire Scooby franchise is, I believe, Shaggy and his relationship with Scooby, and I can honestly say that Lillard plays his part to perfection. There is not a single flaw to be found in his performance. It is, quite simply, brilliant. If the authenticity with which an actor breaths life into a character is any measure of what goes into an Academy Award winning performance, then in a completely fair world, Lillard would be nominated for one next year. He's just that good. He manages to make a CGI rendered Scooby seem that much more alive, and the love he feels for his canine friend is palpable. In the same light, Linda Cardellini breaths life into the character of Velma. She makes you see the vulnerability beneath the brains, and manages to make Fred and Daphne look better than they actually are whenever she's in a scene with them. I am very impressed by these two performances. As for the story, it's the same one that can be seen in every episode of the cartoon show, with only the names of the characters changed to give the appearance of a new storyline. As for who the bad guy turns out to be in the end, it's a fitting choice for anyone who truly likes the Scooby Doo-niverse. I believe the secret to enjoying this incarnation of Scooby Doo is to ask yourself just one question Have you ever watched more than one entire episode of the cartoon series? If so, then you are bound to enjoy Scooby Doo the movie. If not, then go see something else and let the rest of us have all the fun! "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Potentially Scooby Doo was & could still be, a very good film, but it was let down solely by the plot.Unlike others I thought the casting was good & there were some good performance, Shaggy particularly & some good scenes & funny moments.Unfortunately, the storyline was one, largely alien to Scooby Doo, the cartoon & it's viewers. They should've stuck to the tried & tested old Fred Bloogs, the Lodger in the Shed scaring visitors away rather than indulging in face & soul swapping & brainwashing.The pleasure of Scooby Doo is the element of mystery & the whodunnit. There was no real mystery in here at all & nothing to keep the viewer guessing.The farting & burping scene seemed merely to appease the 3 year olds in the audience, the characterisations seemed a little too different to the originals & I wasn't convinced by 'Scrappy as Villain', but there was enough in the film to still make it a fairly good effort all round.A low 5/10 "},{"Title":"Ruined by Pop Culture","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo is the most loved cartoon of all time for most of us.  Warner Brothers absolutely destroyed the reputation of Scooby and the gang.  They have been tainted with the culture of the newest generation.  The movie was full of boring people and completely lacking of any mystery whatsoever. The ending was the worst ending ever, and to top it all off Scooby was designed by rejects with no imagination.  Biggest disappointment ever, this movie belongs on the worst 100 movies of all time.  "},{"Title":"Scooby-Doo, Where Are You? Rot in this Rovie(Not in this Movie)","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Believe it or not, Scooby-Doo, Where Are You? is one of my favorite cartoon series. When I was a kid, I thought this is a good movie. Now, that I'm 21 years old, I gotta be honest with you this is a terrible, terrible movie! This movie is so bad that this would make Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3 look like Wreck-It Ralph! I'll begin this rant with the characters. Why do I have a feeling that the characters in this movie act nothing like the characters in the show? Scooby and Shaggy go into a pointless Yo Mama insult battle, Fred is a freak that when he was in Daphne's body, he wishes to see Daphne's body naked(I think that scene gave me a brain tumor), and Velma's a showoff. I smell character inconsistencies. Rowan Atkinson, why are you in this movie? What crime did you commit that you have to star in this movie? You provided the role of Zazu in The Lion King, not to mention your greatest roles in Blackadder and Mr. Bean. Jealousy is an ugly thing, Mr. Atkinson. Jealousy is an ugly thing. But the worse out of all this is the CGI Scooby-Doo. What the hell did you do to Scooby-Doo?!! Scooby-Doo doesn't look like the original Scooby-Doo I grew up with! Why make him look 3D?!! WHY?!!!! (Gets water splashed on) I'm calm.Pros Scrappy-Doo is made the villain and locked up in jail. I'm pretty sure nobody likes Scrappy-Doo. Cons The story, the generic music, character inconsistencies, and the CGI Scooby-Doo. "},{"Title":"Scooby-Dooby-Doo!","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I am a huge Scooby-Doo fan. My whole room's practically covered with Scooby-Doo stuff. When i heard that they were going to make a real life movie of Scooby, I flipped! The very first weekend the movie was out, I went to go see it. And I was not disappointed! It plays just like a Scooby-Doo episode, though in real-life! The cast was excellent, especially Sarah Michele Gellar, Matthew Lillard and Linda Cardellina. Freddy Prinze Jr. was okay, too, but not as good as the rest of the gang. The plot is simple, as always the gang is invited to an amusement park by the owner (played by Rowan Atkinson). Sure enough, some weird stuff is going on, including ghoulish demons, rides that work by themselves, and the kids on the island being transformed in to tough, mean, almost military like people. Some people say this movie is trash, but I really don't know what they expect from a Scooby-Doo movie. This is as good as it gets, definitely better than Scooby-Doo 2. For being original and true to the series, Scooby-Doo gets a solid 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Old Man Smithers' Plan","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I play with movies about movies representations about representations. And this is just  about the coolest one I've seen in a long time. I really recommend it to thinking  cinephiles.The original cartoon was simple some guy in spooky disguise. That's established in the  first sequence here. But then we move into uncharted territory, where we have not  another chapter but a whole different film disguised as a Scooby movie.In this adventure, there are instead spooks in people, in fact other people in people,  dogs in robots in people, basically every combination possible. At the same time, they  play with the intent there's a sequence similar to one in `The Princess Bride' (which is  template for this) where Daphne figures that someone said not to do something, unless  they meant we should, unless you know that we would think so in case.. and on and on  just like Wallace Shawn in his best `My Dinner with Andre' meets `Wayne's World'  reversals.Everything is about goofing on representations -- ironic irony. This literally turns the  Agatha Christie model of mystery story on its head. Every element is subverted in what  may be the most sophisticated film of the year. Shaggy is farting and Daphne petulentaly   interrupts `we're here to solve a mystery!'Incidentally, the cartoon was influenced by graduates of the Disney character lab, so the  five personalities are modeled after the five roles kids could choose to play in junior  high, based on . And the girls are both redheads one dark, the other light.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"MST3K would have a field day","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'm going to ruin the plot here for youWhat am I talking about ?  Theres no plot, in fact theres no humour, no drama and absolutely no reason for this films existence except to drive revenues to the studios.From Scrappy-Doo urinating all over Daphne to Scooby and Shaggy having a farting competition (oh, yeah - dog DOO doo really is funny for 4 year olds NOT) this movie is so bad I rated it worse than Manos, the Hands of Fate (which I had to be tied down to a chair, and toothpicks affixed to my eyes to watch).Be afraid - be very afraid "},{"Title":"Scooby Don't!!","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" As far as cartoons go, Scooby Doo is one of the weaker, sillier offerings, so why anyone thought they could make a 2 hour movie out of it is beyond me. What material did they think they were working with?Anyway, I would never have watched this movie in my wildest dreams, (even with Rowan Atkinson in it!) but my 5 year old son got the DVD. The script is stupid, the acting from Sarah-Michelle Gellar and Freddy Prinze Jr insultingly lackluster and the sexual innuendo ever-present and offensive. For example, at one stage, Daphne (Gellar) makes it safely through a dangerous tunnel and starts half-moaning 'Oh yeah! Oh yeah!' If you closed your eyes you could be listening to 'Debbie Does Dallas'! I'm not the sort of puritanical parent that flips out if my kid accidentally sees someone's bum on screen or something, but one thing I am getting sick of is Hollywood making kids cartoons into teen/adult soft porn. Kids go to these movies expecting to see a big screen version of the cartoons they like and instead are presented with sticky adult material. My guess is that the producers know there isn't much genuine material to work with, so they just go for the sex card. This may work for the 18 year old guys, but as the parent of a small child it is incredibly annoying.Overall, the movie was shocking! Badly directed, horrendously scripted and nothing but a vehicle for Gellar and Prinze Junior's US teen appeal. When Sarah-Michelle Gellar came to Australia's Gold Coast to make this movie she complained about the food in the area. Well Sarah-Michelle, I've eaten Gold Coast food and seen your movie, and I know which one I prefer to do!!Forget this film if you care about not offending yourself!!I rate it 0/10! "},{"Title":"More Doo-doo than Scooby, more crappy than scrappy","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The original Scooby Doo cartoons were silly and predictable but had a certain charm and colour which has endeared them to a generation of kids. A later series added Scrappy who was the most irritating cartoon character before the intentionally irritating Poochie in the Simpsons. Scrappy's contribution to this shocker is him pointlessly urinating on Thelma (obviously no one house trained him) at which point this tiresome character is dropped out of the mystery machine.Don't worry though there's plenty more tiresome characters where he came from.Extremely juvenile comedy with a lot of knowing postmodern irony topped off with over the top cgi monsters. The original poorly drawn cartoon looks positively sublime and subtle by comparison.Avoid. "},{"Title":"This Film is Lame","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Do Not see this film! Apologies if you are hopping, surfing or whatever the word is for reading this page to give this a glorious 2 thumbs up or a 10/10 mark this review is not for you!However if like me the bile that has built up inside you, days after the accursed event has reached boiling point and you feel that you must reach out to the world and cry SCOOOOOBYYY DON'T then this might be slightly more your cup of tea.First I would just like to point out that this film has NO FUN in it whatso ever.It is unfunny, horribly acted, bad plot and just about the only good thing that happened was that it ended. Oh and that it was half as long as Lord of the Rings.In fact the only fun that might be even dared to be thought up in conjunction with this unspeakable waste of life is tricking your mate into wasting however long (S)he can stand to remain inside a dark,dank grottoesque hellhole surrounded by hordes of no-longer screaming pre pubescent little horrors, who bored out of their witt's end rely on drinking far too much cola in order that they can leave whichever (soon to be ex best mate's great party idea it was to take his friends to see a once proud and noble cartoon, the stalwart of the cartoon network portrayed like a picasso, lude crude and nothing like the original) that they may spend a blessed few minutes relieving themselves before the ordeal starts againAfter some father/Mother dragged a kid to see this epic of rectal proportions I can fully understand the idea of parental divorce.Thank you for reading and may your life be blessed with the hope that you may never encounter such a villainous waste of £5.50.I am off to ritually cleanse myself by watching Battlefield Earth and Tomb Raider so that my memories may no longer be tainted by such things as Sara Michelle Gellar trying to be anything other than Buffy.. or that nice pretty young thing she played in Cruel Intentions. "},{"Title":"I blame the Devil for this, but good luck trying slap the cuffs on that greasy crook","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Why did this movie get made? How much money could this movie have possibly ever made to warrant it's production and release? Whom are the villains so enamored with feces that they wanted to make THIS movie? Don't you ever think about it? Don't you ever wonder 'what are the dark insidious forces that collude daily to ensure and enshrine mediocrity?' Are you telling me the world makes things like the Nazi party or this movie or global poverty, and you don't f*cking question it? All that misery, it's gotta spring up from somewhere, it doesn't just magically appear- and what, you don't f*cking notice? Don't f*cking care? Goddamn f*cking soul-crushing f*cking bastards. "},{"Title":"It had the spirit, but lacked conviction...","Date":"28 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Mystery Inc. gang should have remained in the drawn and animated world, because this live action event did not turn out all that great. Why? Well, because the CGI was just horrible and did the movie or the Scooby Doo franchise no justice at all.While the storyline was right at home in the typical and beloved Scooby Doo universe, the live action thing was a difficult pill to swallow. And I believe that the movie would have fared better with an entirely unknown cast list. It is really difficult to look at the actors and actresses who were in the movie with a proper light after having witnessed this abysmal movie.That being said, it should also be said that that above ramblings is given from an adult's point of view. If you are a child, then this movie will be entertaining, especially if you love the Scooby Doo cartoons.And this movie is of course aimed for a young audience. I sat down to watch it as I grew up with the Hanna-Barbera cartoons on TV. So I wanted to see just how the transition from drawn animation to live action turned out.Scooby Doo as a live action movie is somewhat of an acquired taste. Personally, I plan to keep my memories of Scooby Doo to the Saturday morning cartoons. "},{"Title":"Scooby-Doo Where are you?","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I would've gotten away with it if it wasn't for you meddling kids and your dog too! Scooby-Doo is still one of my favorite cartoons and when I first watch the live action movie on HBO it just had to seen to believe. Actually I was laughing through out the movie while it did have some moments that made me go what were they thinking? But still I actually entertain from this movie.The plot of the film is that the Mystery Gang Scobby-Doo, Fred (Freddie Prinze Jr), Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Shaggy (Matthew Lillard), and Velma (Linda Cardellini) are invited to a island theme park by Mondavarious (Rowan Atkinson) however things are not what they appear to be. Also we are introduce to Mary Jane (Isla Fisher) N'Goo Tuana (Steven Grives) and Voodoo Maestro (Miguel A.Nunez Jr) As the plot goes on I like how they added the theme song because come on everyone has heard Scooby-Doo where are you? and know that theme by heart just having that theme more than once really does a good job. In fact a lot of the music in the film is enjoyable and the songs they feature in it have that special it factor.As for the acting, it is actually good Matthew's performance as Shaggy is just superb as he study the character very well He just shine as Shaggy, Sarah was very good as Daphne, Linda did well as Velma and Freddie did look the part of Freddie. But yeah the movie does feature some good acting just got to be more open mind about it. As for Scooby Doo I enjoy the C.G.I. Scooby Doo the cast did a great job with interacting with Scooby Doo to make it believable so props to themHowever what I didn't like about this film was the fact that it had moments that make you What were they thinking? and it really should have been left out of the finish film but again who knows it could have been a lot of worse which is why I'm glad I got it on DVD so I can skip the parts that didn't serve any sense.But still as a fan of Scooby Doo I got to say this is actually a funny movie and it is quite entertaining plus well thought out comedy bits that gives that cartoon feel to the film so yeah give this movie a chance you might be surpriseI give Scooby-Doo a 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Funny movie!","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I do my review of the SCOOBY-DOO live-action films with SCOOBY-DOO and then, SCOOBY-DOO 2 MONSTERS UNLEASHED and then, I will do the reviews for the two prequels, SCOOBY-DOO THE MYSTERY BEGINS and SCOOBY-DOO THE CURSE OF THE LAKE MONSTER.Before I begin my review of the SCOOBY-DOO franchise, I'm going to tell a little bit of history, now, shall we begin? Development for a live-action treatment of Scooby-Doo began in 1994 by producer Charles Roven. Originally, the idea was to make a film with a much darker tone, essentially poking fun at the original cartoon series, much like the Brady Bunch Movie and was set to receive a PG-13 rating from the MPAA.Shaggy was set to be a stoner, Velma and Daphne had a side relationship and there were many references to drugs. Several rumors about these aspects in the original cartoon series were passed around by fans of the show and were to be incorporated into the live-action film.The plot revolves around the Mystery Incorporated, a group of four young adults Fred Jones, Daphne Blake, Velma Dinkley and Norville Shaggy Rodgers and a dog named Scooby-Doo who solves mysteries. After a two-year disbandment, the group reunites to investigate a mystery on a popular horror resort called Spooky Island.The movie was not well received by critics, but it was enough to spawn a sequel released in 2004, and a telefilm prequel, aired on Cartoon Network on September 13, 2009.This movie is a really great film and critics did take this the wrong way, but they did like some of the things done right and some of the fans really liked this movie.The story is amazing and to the script writer's credit James Gunn, who directed Marvel's GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY and the film does stay true to the TV show. The Mystery Machine is really amazing and fantastic and if they changed it to different colors and it would have not been the van from Scooby-Doo that I know.The acting is just amazing. Freddie Prinze Jr. plays Fred Jones and he really does great in his performance. Sarah Michelle Gellar plays the role of Daphne Blake and she did really amazing and to this day, the two actors I just mentioned are married. Matthew Lillard pays the role of Shaggy Rogers and he is funny and over-the-top during this whole movie and it was really amazing. Linda Cardellini plays Velma Dinkley and she is really fantastic in her performance.Rowan Atkinson is Emile Mondavarious and he does a really great job. Isla Fisher plays the role of Mary Jane, Shaggy's love interest and she does a really great job as well. Neil Fanning provides the voice of Scooby-Doo and the CGI is really amazing on him and they made him look realistic.The music by David Newman is really cool and the visual effects are well done and it is spectacular to see how the creatures look on screen. The production and costume designs are really cool also and is fantastic.This film is just spectacular and overall, I love SCOOBY-DOO and it gets a 7 out of 10, because I really give this film an amazing rating.The DVD features on this film is amazing and you have an audio commentary by the director and producers, a commentary with the cast, a two-player game that is very challenging, deleted scenes with optional commentary and those deleted scenes should have been in the movie, the behind-the-scenes documentary is really amazing and fantastic and I think it gives you a damn good look into the making of a movie that I enjoy. There are also featurettes on the movie as well including The Mystery Van and Daphne's Fight Scene.There is also a music video by Outkast called Land of A Million Drums and that is so freaking cool as well as the soundtrack trailer for the movie's soundtrack.The DVD gets an 8 out of 10 and I have the sequel on the same DVD, but that is Disc Two, which is my next review. "},{"Title":"Would you watch it for a Scooby-snack?","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby-Doo has always been an exercise in nostalgia, its cast of lovably iconic flower-power Sherlocks already feeling cheerily antiquated when airing in the 1960s. As such, it's oddly appropriate that the first live-action adaptation of the beloved Hanna-Barbera cartoon is so outrageously trendy that it functions as a brilliant time capsule for the early 2000s (a good litmus test of whether or not to see the film whether the prospect of Scooby and Shaggy skateboarding to Simple Plan makes you guffaw or wretch). The show was a simple beast, content to lean on cheap sight-gags, shock-value spookiness, and repetitive, MacGuffin-y mysteries, but beloved due to its earnestness. Here, director Raja Gosnell (a solid contender for contemporary Hollywood's answer to Ed Wood) attempts to transpose and stretch the formula with all of the tact and cleverness of one of Shaggy's eggplant burgers. Yet, the fandom is strong with this one, and the Doo's debut is so cheerily, engagingly stupid, and propelled by its irresistible characters that, like the lovable mutt himself, it's hard not to take to, in spite of its wake of disastrous clumsiness. Like the show, watching for plot, theme, continuity or depth, is a laughably misguided exercise &#x96; our job here is to filter through the scatological, adolescent titters and clutch for the heart underneath. Granted, it can't help but feel cheap that the screenplay (by James Gunn, writer/director of Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy, recently trying his hardest to pretend this was another writer coincidentally sharing a name)'s central conflict caves to actually supernatural occultism instead of the show's stubborn insistence on debunking every fantastic occurrence with almost-plausible science. That said, there is a certain satisfaction in realizing that, no, you were not alone growing up thinking Scrappy-Doo was the most intolerable cartoon concoction imaginable, even if Gunn's 'big reveal' of him as surprise antagonist does subject the audience to a climax of an enormous, demoniacally bloated CGI Scrappy chasing the gang around. Cue Simple Plan again? Why not!Oddly enough, the CGI Scooby-Doo looks and moves somewhat convincingly without compromising the expressive flamboyance of the character's fundamental cartooniness (the prospect of a real dog being dubbed with 'romic rerief rines' is truly horrific). The rest of the CGI not so much, as the film's creakily animated ghouls show the film's age worse than all of the Blink-182 doppelgängers. Thankfully, the rest of the film's visual aesthetic provides somewhat a fleeting saving grace &#x96; the set design boasts the same ornate kitch as the show, and the costumes, impeccably replicating the popping colours, turtlenecks, go-go boots and ascots of 'the Gang', are triumphant.If nothing else, Scooby-Doo is worthwhile for the performance of Matthew Lilard, so astoundingly perfect a live-action embodiment of Shaggy that it took over the rest of his career (like, he and J.K. Simmons' J. Jonah Jameson can battle it out for most eerily replicated cinematic cartoon character in the history of film. Zoinks!). It's no wonder, really apart from nailing the look and voice of Shaggy, Lilard is a masterclass of effortless charm, sweetness, hyperbolic facial contortions and goofiness so endearing you will be surprised to find yourself laughing harder than you should at his fart-off with a CGI Scooby-Doo. Likewise, Linda Cardellini is the perfect Velma, indignantly intellectual and bubbly to a tee, even if her odd sexualization is a bit disturbing. Sarah Michelle Gellar's ferociously self-reliant Daphne is the smartest way to make the character not feel intolerably anti-feminist in the 21st century, and Gellar pours loopy charisma and martial arts skills alike into the character. Freddie Prinze Jr.'s Fred is more of a self-possessed bonehead than the cartoon's earnest but oblivious fearless leader, but he fits like a glove alongside fellow 90s relics Gellar and Lilard, and is tons of fun to boot. On top of the scene-stealing glee of a campy Rowan Atkinson having the time of his life as an evidently suspicious resort owner, keep your eyes peeled for an early Isla Fisher appearance, perfectly simpering as the woman of Shaggy's dreams, Mary-Jane (Like, that's my favourite name! is a surprisingly hearty laugh). Ultimately, Scooby-Doo would have gotten away with it, if it wasn't for its doofus creative team opting for lazy pastiche instead of cleverly ironic remastering (I suppose a Mad Max- style zombie apocalypse Scooby-Doo action thriller is way out of the question&#x85;). Thankfully, the fun factor is never compromised, and Gunn and Gosnell willingly swan dive into the inherent cheesiness, silliness, and broad spookiness of the cartoon with a tone that feels at least reminiscent of right. Dense and gaudy as it may be, it's ultimately harmless tackiness, liable to be a crowdpleaser for kids, and with just enough nostalgic nods and (surprisingly tasteful) winks at the more risqué elements of the swinging sixties relics to keep older viewers from existentially questioning their life choices. For those willing to slip on the rosy- tinted &#x96; and, hopefully, indulgent &#x96; goggles of a child, there is still amusement to be found in the antics of the Mystery Machine gang, vacant as they may be. Play it again, Simple Plan.Ree-hee-hee-hee-hee! -5/10 "}{"Title":"A Few Good Spots but Too Many Weak Ones","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby-Doo (2002)** (out of 4) The Mystery, Inc. group breaks up after Fred (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) and his ego get a bit too big. Two years later they're reunited when someone invites them to an amusement park to solve a mysterious case but soon Fred, Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Velma (Linda Cardellini), Shaggy (Matthew Lillard) and Scooby are battling monsters.I guess it was only a matter of time before someone tried to turn the classic animated cartoon into a live action movie and the result here is mixed to say the least. I think the biggest problem with this film is the direction and the screenplay because it seems that both are constantly battling against the other. I say that because the screenplay has several adult winks at the audience and at times the story appears to be spoofing or lampooning the animated series. I'm okay with this but the problem is that this is still a movie for kids so the spoofs are more annoying and stupid rather than funny. I mean, I'd be up for a movie dealing with a pot-smoking Shaggy and we get that wink here but it just doesn't work.Another problem is that everything really seems dumbed down from the original series and many of the series that followed. The characters are also a mixed bag with Fred certainly coming across as a complete moron and he's certainly not likable. Perhaps this is due to Prinze lack of acting ability. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Linda Cardellini are both good in their roles and they certainly help keep the entertainment level high. Speaking of high, Lillard does a fairly good job in the role of Shaggy but this is certainly a hard character to play. As for the CGI Scooby, I found him more creepy than entertaining.Overall, this SCOOBY-DOO is far from being an awful movie as I'm sure many kids will love it but as an adult and fan of the series, this here just doesn't work in the end. Perhaps there were just too many dumb sequences like the fart and burp session between Shaggy and Scooby. "},{"Title":"Another Pointless Remake","Date":"14 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" If there's one thing that Hollywood likes to do it's to get a hold of something that's popular and try to milk as much money out of it as possible. Scooby-Doo is an unfortunate case of this where Warner Bro's rook one of television's most recognisable animated icons and turned him into a CGI monstrosity.The film begins with the entire team disbanding due to personal conflicts. However this is somewhat undermined when they're all back together again two scenes later where they are reformed by Mondavarious (Rowan Atkinson) to investigate his amusement park on Spooky Island. Does the fact that the characters split up have any real difference on their dynamic? Not really. Every so often the characters will act insecure about themselves with Daphne wanting to be independent more and Velma not wanting to get picked last, but other than that there is no real difference on their dynamic.For the most part the cast is pretty bland. Whilst Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar and Lynda Cardellini all look like their respective members of the scooby gang, they don't really get much to work with due to the script turning them into nothing more then very dull caricatures with extremely exaggerated insecurity issues that seem to come out of nowhere. On top of this the talents of Rowan Atkinson and Isla Fisher are also wasted also being given nothing in the film to do. The only exception in this cast is Matthew Lillard who matches the animated Shaggy in every way from his energetic movement to his great imitation of the green shirted stoner. Also Scooby-Doo himself isn't dreadful. The voice factor Neil Fanning who plays him does get Scoobies voice spot on. Also just like Shaggy, Scooby is written with the same kind of stupidity and zaniness as his animated counterpart. But unfortunately all this is ruined by the ugly CGI. Whilst the animators did go through decent effort to bring the fast paced movements from the animated series to the live action adaptation, the CGI model of him just makes it unpleasant to watch. In contrast to the lovable 2D design, this CGI counterpart ends up looking as scary as the monsters that they were supposed to be fighting in the film.Although the film's biggest downfalls is it doesn't know what kind of film it wanted to be. According to Sarah Michelle Gellar, when she was cast in the film it was originally written to be a darker PG-13 comedy but it was changed to be family friendly after the casting. This unfortunately shows in the film quite often with the humour constantly shifting tones from family friendly gross-out humour like Scooby and Shaggy having a farting contest to stoner references like Shaggy falling in love with a girl called Mary Jane. Sometimes it's extremely mean spirited with Scooby at one point punching Fred in the face very violently whilst at others it's the child friendly slapstick with the standard over the top chases that Scooby Doo is known for. The film throws so many different styles at us, possibly in the attempt to appeal to all audiences, that it lacks any consistent tone.Whilst not the worst remake of a classic TV show that's come out (particularly considering the likes of Transformers and Smurfs that have come out since), this remake of Scooby-Doo remains a disappointment. It's not awful with some occasional laughs and it does have a decent soundtrack. But if you want to enjoy Scooby-Doo you'd be better off enjoying him on the silver screen "},{"Title":"Funny movie!","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I do my review of the SCOOBY-DOO live-action films with SCOOBY-DOO and then, SCOOBY-DOO 2 MONSTERS UNLEASHED and then, I will do the reviews for the two prequels, SCOOBY-DOO THE MYSTERY BEGINS and SCOOBY-DOO THE CURSE OF THE LAKE MONSTER.Before I begin my review of the SCOOBY-DOO franchise, I'm going to tell a little bit of history, now, shall we begin? Development for a live-action treatment of Scooby-Doo began in 1994 by producer Charles Roven. Originally, the idea was to make a film with a much darker tone, essentially poking fun at the original cartoon series, much like the Brady Bunch Movie and was set to receive a PG-13 rating from the MPAA.Shaggy was set to be a stoner, Velma and Daphne had a side relationship and there were many references to drugs. Several rumors about these aspects in the original cartoon series were passed around by fans of the show and were to be incorporated into the live-action film.The plot revolves around the Mystery Incorporated, a group of four young adults Fred Jones, Daphne Blake, Velma Dinkley and Norville Shaggy Rodgers and a dog named Scooby-Doo who solves mysteries. After a two-year disbandment, the group reunites to investigate a mystery on a popular horror resort called Spooky Island.The movie was not well received by critics, but it was enough to spawn a sequel released in 2004, and a telefilm prequel, aired on Cartoon Network on September 13, 2009.This movie is a really great film and critics did take this the wrong way, but they did like some of the things done right and some of the fans really liked this movie.The story is amazing and to the script writer's credit James Gunn, who directed Marvel's GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY and the film does stay true to the TV show. The Mystery Machine is really amazing and fantastic and if they changed it to different colors and it would have not been the van from Scooby-Doo that I know.The acting is just amazing. Freddie Prinze Jr. plays Fred Jones and he really does great in his performance. Sarah Michelle Gellar plays the role of Daphne Blake and she did really amazing and to this day, the two actors I just mentioned are married. Matthew Lillard pays the role of Shaggy Rogers and he is funny and over-the-top during this whole movie and it was really amazing. Linda Cardellini plays Velma Dinkley and she is really fantastic in her performance.Rowan Atkinson is Emile Mondavarious and he does a really great job. Isla Fisher plays the role of Mary Jane, Shaggy's love interest and she does a really great job as well. Neil Fanning provides the voice of Scooby-Doo and the CGI is really amazing on him and they made him look realistic.The music by David Newman is really cool and the visual effects are well done and it is spectacular to see how the creatures look on screen. The production and costume designs are really cool also and is fantastic.This film is just spectacular and overall, I love SCOOBY-DOO and it gets a 7 out of 10, because I really give this film an amazing rating.The DVD features on this film is amazing and you have an audio commentary by the director and producers, a commentary with the cast, a two-player game that is very challenging, deleted scenes with optional commentary and those deleted scenes should have been in the movie, the behind-the-scenes documentary is really amazing and fantastic and I think it gives you a damn good look into the making of a movie that I enjoy. There are also featurettes on the movie as well including The Mystery Van and Daphne's Fight Scene.There is also a music video by Outkast called Land of A Million Drums and that is so freaking cool as well as the soundtrack trailer for the movie's soundtrack.The DVD gets an 8 out of 10 and I have the sequel on the same DVD, but that is Disc Two, which is my next review. "},{"Title":"Ruh-roh","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" No real effort is made to contemporize the characters, yet strangely this is never mined for laughs a la 'The Brady Bunch Movie'. Prinze and Gellar are okay as Fred and Daphne, and Cardellini is pretty good, but chunky turtlenecks and glasses aren't enough to hide the fact that she's waaaay too hot to play Velma. Waaaay too hot. But it's Matthew Lillard as Shaggy who steals the show. In looks, mannerisms and voice it's as if the cartoon came to life. Scooby is rendered somewhere in between cartoon and photo real, and though the effects haven't aged particularly well, it works here.Overall it's a colorful and breezy movie, but unfortunately the laughs are few and things drag when Shaggy and Scooby aren't on screen. "},{"Title":"Pretty good family fun movie","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I'm not gonna lie, saw this as a kid and loved it, and I still love it today! It's just a fun mystery/comedy/action movie. Now yes, I would've liked for them to tone down the potty humor a little, but really that's the only issue I had with it! Yah, personally, I think the whole fart contest scene just went too far, it got overboard. The cast was great, each and every one were cast exactly right, they all looked exactly like their character! This movie just makes me feel good when I watch it. Is it gonna win an Oscar, no, but that doesn't mean it's not entertaining and fun to watch! Some of the CGI monsters could've been designed a little better, they don't look horrible or anything, but it's kinda evident that more effort could've gone into that, but I think Scooby Doo looked just fine. Sarah Michelle Gellar is by far the best here, I just loved her performance as daphne here, she was so spot on, and shaggy was so accurately depicted, it was scary lol. The action sequences are satisfying, especially the haunted castle scene on the island. I think that castle scene is very well done, and it's bound to please viewers, especially if you were a fan of the old animated series. Overall I'm giving Scooby Doo (2002) a 7/10 rating. It's not flawless, but u have to remember that this movie was targeted towards kids and families. But seriously I love watching this whenever I feel bad or just depressed about something, it always makes me feel better! "},{"Title":"Meh","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I'm really annoyed at this movie because I watched the 2nd movie first and quite liked it because it captured the ridiculousness and creepy villains and everything that scooby-doo is supposed to be. Then I watched this one and was very disappointed. There are terrible fart jokes. The movie is too short. The movie is very inconsistent. What I mean is that nothing happens for the first half and then lots of boring stuff happen in the second half of the movie. They really ruined Scrappy-doo in this movie, a character I really liked from The 13 ghosts of scooby-doo. The climax was lame because of that and because the story was quite weak. There's a little of bit of original scooby-doo in it and that's what doesn't make this movie completely terrible. "},{"Title":"For young kids and the properly baked","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" As always, Shaggy Rogers (Matthew Lillard) and Scooby-Doo bumble their way to catch the Luna Ghost. However constant fighting among the Mystery Incorporated group cause them to split up. They had kicked Scrappy Doo to the side of the road for being a douche. Two years later, each member is brought to the popular horror resort Spooky Island. Fred (Freddie Prinze Jr.), Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar), and Velma Dinkley (Linda Cardellini) are not happy at the reunion. The gang meets the owner Emile Mondavarious (Rowan Atkinson) who thinks that visitors are being cursed. Shaggy falls the lovely Mary Jane (Isla Fisher). Velma meets N'Goo Tuana and Zarkos who explains that demons once ruled the island. Voodoo Maestro (Miguel A. Núñez Jr.) directs Daphne to the abandoned castle and the group all ends up there. Daphne finds a small pyramid relic Daemon Ritus. Velma and Fred find strange videos. The gang returns to the hotel and they are attacked by the island demons who kidnap many including Fred, Velma and Mondavarious. The next morning, everybody is back but they are all possessed by demons.It's a live action movie using a cartoon style of bright colors, silly action, childish humor, and ridiculous story. It's hard to say that this is a failure. It achieves exactly what they are after. I'm just not sure that it's particularly funny. I also don't know about including Scrappy Doo or giving him a douche personality. There are a lot of questionable things in this movie but there is enough wacky craziness to keep the 10 year olds entertained. "},{"Title":"Favorite cartoon character in a live adapted version!","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby-Doo is my favorite cartoon show of all time, bringing back sweet childhood memories when this show would air during the early mornings, after school, or on the weekends. Seeing Scooby, Shaggy, Fred, Daphne and Velma on a live adapted motion picture is a real treat.After the Mystery Inc. gang have gone their separate ways for two years, they each were invited to go to the whimsical resort Spooky Island, run by Mr. Emile Mondavarious (Rowan Atkinson). After they arrive, the discover that the resort affects young visitors in very strange and ghoulish ways, so it is up to Fred, Daphne, Velma, Shaggy and Scooby to realize they must reunite to solve the mystery.This is an adventurous movie from start to finish, with a predictable, but fun-filled story. Scooby is filmed in CGI, but voiced by Neil Fanning, and Freddy Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Matthew Lillard and Linda Cardellini each did a creative job in portraying Fred, Daphne, Velma and Shaggy, and each matched the original cartoon voices very well, especially Lillard's Shaggy and Cardellini's Velma. Fred and Daphne are my favorite characters in the movie; Prinze and Gellar did great in their roles and it is just interesting seeing them go from portraying characters in teenage comedies, horror/slasher movies and Buffy the Vampire Slayer to a cartoon-based film.The special and visual effects were colorful and the island resort was a little too flashy, looking like it was ripped out of a comic book. A lot of slapstick comedy and humor gets a little too overboard or cliché, almost too childish at some point. Some movies are meant to be taken seriously and some are meant to just have fun with. Then, there are movies that are so bad and you end up not taking the movie seriously and not having fun with it. Fortunately, I didn't think Scooby-Doo was bad; it is a movie that is great for the entire family and just to enjoy. It is full of adventure and whimsical fun, but still having room to send a message of friendship and teamwork. So, sit back, suspend reality and enjoy one of the greatest cartoons come to life.Grade B "},{"Title":"Thank God for Matthew Lillard","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie can't seem to decide whether it wants to parody the Scooby-Doo cartoons or just be an adaptation of them. It does neither of these things well, and also fails to be a good movie of its own.The biggest issues I have with the film are the characters and the actors portraying them. Fred is now just a self-centered douche, and Freddie Prinze Jr. expends pretty much no effort playing him. Sarah Michelle Gellar isn't actually a bad choice to play Daphne, and she tries to do the best with what she has, but unfortunately she doesn't have much. Daphne's whole damsel in distress thing is played up way too much, and her constant complaining is also overdone. Velma's problem is completely opposite to Daphne's, they actually got the character's personality pretty much spot on, but Linda Cardellini is far, far too hot to be Velma. Putting glasses and an orange sweater on her is supposed to make her the unattractive nerd of the group? Scooby's personality is fine, but the CGI work done to create him is just awful. Clearly they were trying to make him cartoony (as he is an anthropomorphic dog), but it was executed very poorly. I haven't one bad thing to say about Shaggy though, they nailed his personality and Matthew Lillard is perfectly cast.Source material is not a sacred thing, and I'm all for changing it, especially with a source as well known as Scooby-Doo, as so many people are already familiar with it, there's more opportunity to toy with it. But the changes they made just aren't good in my opinion, I wouldn't have had an issue with the character's differences in personality from the cartoons if eitherA. The movie was a straight-up parody of the cartoon like The Brady Bunch Movie.B. The changes were funny and kept the characters likable (as Daphne and Fred weren't) or believable (as Velma being a nerd when she's such a fox isn't).The story is pretty weak. I'm not against including real monsters in the films rather than the man-in-the-mask thing the cartoon always did, and the first three direct-to-video animated Scooby-Doo movies (Scooby-Doo on Zombie Island, Scooby-Doo and the Witch's Ghost, Scooby-Doo and the Alien Invaders) all had the gang encountering real monsters, and all of those were great, but this movie just executes it badly. The monsters themselves look absolutely awful, the CGI used for them is even worse than Scooby. Making Scrappy-Doo the villain behind it all was a very stupid idea, but it's an aspect I wouldn't have minded if the movie was just an outright parody of the cartoon. Old Man Smithers, the man dressed as the Luna Ghost in the opening, was originally supposed to be the villain, and this would've been far better. Matthew Lillard is awesome, but he's the only merit the movie has going for it. The sequel was definitely an improvement, but that isn't saying much at all. "},{"Title":"I admit that it does have some semblance of entertainment at times, but as a huge Scooby fan? Letdown","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Fred's ego is out of control and he fails to give Velma the credit she deserves. This leads to acrimonious breakup for Mystery Inc. Two years later, they all receive an invitation to Spooky Island. The gang is far from thrilled about working together again, but they are gonna have to co-exist to solve this mystery. I've actually seen this when it first came out in theaters. I was younger at that time and my tolerance level was much higher. I remember really liking it and I have no idea why. I won't deny that this movie is an OK time passer and somewhat cute at times, but it really infuriated me at the same time. I have no problem with wanting to put a different spin on things with a different kind of vision, but this was an insult to the Scooby Doo legacy. For starters, Fred was NEVER, EVER this arrogant. He was always confident and sure of himself, but egotism wasn't in his vocabulary. In this movie, they make Fred into an overbearing buffoon. Admiring himself in the mirror, in love with himself? Different is good, but that was too much. It resorts to lazy gags, such as fart and burping jokes, and juvenile slapstick.. Come on guys, how could you show so much contempt for Scooby fans? It's like they forgot why the gang was so lovable in the first place. They were always a cohesive unit that had no shortage of ingenuity. I didn't buy the split thing it felt phony. I'm sure I'll annoy people by comparing this to the television show, but I can't help it, I love Scooby, and to me? This isn't Scooby Doo. I was never a Scrappy Doo fan myself, but to make him a bad guy? Did they honestly think that would be clever? It was stupid. Freddie Prinze Jr. is awful as Freddy. He's a pretty bad actor in general, but he is especially bad in this one. He has no idea on how to portray Fred properly. Sarah Michelle Gellar is actually perfect as Daphne. She hits all the right notes and clearly researched her role. She portrayed Daphne perfectly in my books. Matthew Lillard is scary good as Shaggy. It didn't feel like I was watching an actor, he WAS Shaggy to me. I was so impressed by him. Linda Cardellini is pretty good as Velma. She had her off moments, but she comes through more often then not. Rowan Atkinson has fun in his role as the villain. Isla Fisher is simply romance fodder for Shaggy, simple as that. I'm not sure why they chose an animated dog....It looked rather cornyFinal Thoughts All of my carps aside, if I wasn't such a big Scooby fan, I would have probably enjoyed it more. It isn't totally void of entertainment. It can be cute at times, but for me it wasn't enough. There are too many things wrong with this movie for me to give it a full recommendation, but others may have a different perspective on it. If the sequel is anything like this one, I'm not looking forward to it 5/10 "}{"Title":"Well I maybe a 22 year old chick but I found it actually good but not so good.","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby Doo is based off the animated series of the same name and stars Buffy's Sarah Michelle Gellar(sporting a red-head look for the role of Daphne),Freddie Prinze Jr(who's married to Sarah Michelle Gellar and I find him really cute),Matthew Lillard(as Shaggy sporting a goofy voice)and Linda Cardinelli(as Velma) all of whom are in this movie.So what's the film version of the popular cartoon show about well its about the mystery gang who split up and 2 years later they team up together again to solve a case in Spooky Island that is owned by Rowan Atkinson's(YES MR BEAN is in this movie)charcther that has people being brainwashed by some enchanting spell. Could Rowan Atkinson be over this?? Well you'd be surprised by the time you get to the end.So after this set up you'd think its the best family movie ever well no,its packed with fart jokes,the cast is good,the story is a bit creepy for kids to watch and everything about it is kinda silly.Overall its not one of those movies you'd watch again and again. But since were reaching the Halloween spirit,its not bad to watch for Halloween. Im giving it a 6 out of 10 because I love Scooby Doo as a kid and heck I still love the animated version. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie was a brilliant and epic film.The cast was pretty good.I would think that this movie got 4.8 stars cause adults reviewed not kids.The movies story was cool and funny.This movie always makes me feel better.And the awesome fight scenes.And this movie had such a nice ending.Great film for all ages.Without a complain this was the best movie of the summer.The mystery gang were like superheros.The story was great and funny with some violence but still a funny and super great comedy in the world.I loved the gang and all the cool fun characters that played in this great funny super movie.I loved how they turned the animated show into a real life movie. "},{"Title":"Scooby-Doo in the big screen. So excited","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I have been watching Scooby-Doo for over 12 years and i am a big fan of the series and every animated movie. When this movie came out i was so excited that Scooby-Doo will be at the big screen for the first time. I knew that people wouldn't'd like this because scooby looks little fake but don't care about this because scooby is my favourite cartoon and dog. The acting was amazing and there were many laughs. The only negative is that it was only 1h and 25m and i wanted more.. I say yes to this film. If you love Scooby-Doo this is the perfect film. Some people may don't like this film but it's a classic cartoon character that every one loves. A good way to spend 1h and 25m of your time. It's worth of watching 4/5 "},{"Title":"Eh, give it a watch maybe you'll like it","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I just don't see the characters i grew up with while watching this film. Does that make it bad? Well unless the respect the original traits. What really annoys me is that there are a good amount of scenes where they just ignore the original character and annoy many scooby fans. The acting is well.....some performances is acceptable while others make you laugh at how over acted it is. The sets though are actually creepy, like the abandoned ride scene was like walking into a Tim Burton dream. Although the sets are cool, it wasn't enough to save this film. The cgi for the monster( though I don't really care about effects) are bad, just 1 ugly design. Also I guess this could give away the movie a bit but I think it can slide. You see the shadow of he creepy clown looking monster? Oh you saw I'm in the trailer? Guess what? First 15 mins and he's caught. Then why is he on the front cover you may ask? Well because the real villains are well.....not what fans wanted. That's all I'm going to say, I think it is a pretty bad movie, and I would've given it a 3, if it weren't for those sets. So I don't like it but I still recommend you to give it a watch. "},{"Title":"A clever and funny satire","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing the first trailer to Scooby-Doo and thinking it would be a travesty. Then I saw the other trailers and they didn't help either,but after finally seeing the movie in theaters and again on home video. I came to a conclusion that Scooby-Doo is not a bad movie but a clever send up to the original series. The premise is that the mystery Inc. gang have broken up and gone there separate ways, but they are reluctantly paired up again to solve a case at a theme park in titled Spooky Island, which is like if Tim Burton took over Disneyland and made it his own. Now I know the characters are not as fleshed as they would in normal movie but what really works is the adult humor. This movie was clearly made for adults who grew up with the series and older teenagers who want to see a clever satire to the old show. I gotta admit I am a fan of old-school scooby-doo,so it was nice to see a movie that makes fun of it's self and yet homages it at every length. Now there are some obviously dumb moments like the cross dressing scooby and pointless celebrity cameo by Pamela Anderson but there are some generally funny moments, like when Fred is transformed into a hip-hop zombie, it's actually really funny to see Fred act like even more a tool than he usually is. The drunk Velma scene was very funny and surprising. Hell, even the evil plan is pretty f'upd, there plan is to to suck the souls out of a person, so a monster can climb into to there body and take over them,which is actually pretty neat. Scooby-Doo is in my opinion a first rate satire that honors the original show while making fun of it at the same time. For me it's a underrated classic. "},{"Title":"Let's get Jinky with it.....","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" After two years apart, Mystery, Inc. are back together and ready to solve the mystery of Spooky Island. Spooky Island is a resort run by Mr. Emile Mondavarious, who is having troubles with what he believes are real spooks. This is bad for business, when it gets around and threatens to send the guests scattering back to the mainland. Mondavarious convinces the gang that they are needed and should work together. But is the island really haunted, or is there just a sinister individual behind all the ride malfunctions and creepy, crawly creatures? If so, who could it be?......It was inevitable that this would happen eventually and it was inevitable that it wasn't going to be very good.For starters, Scooby is an awful CGI creation and annoys one whenever he is on screen, which doesn't bode well when it's the titular character.The cast are not very good either. We have a below average Vampire Slayer, and a man who was in a couple of Teen movies,a nd not much else.The biggest draw here is Lillard, and to be fair, he does a good Shaggy, but he's always on the screen with CGI dog, so it always draws you away from him.Story is non-existent, and narrative is as bad as the cartoon, and it's just an excuse for bad special effects and some really cringe inducing innuendo.Yes, we know Shaggy is a stoner, and Velma is really hot, and the whole thing is a pseudonym for teens being teens on spring break and 'losing' things, but we didn't need it throwing in our faces.So all in all, it's bad, but then it was expected, so it turns out to be strangely watchable. "},{"Title":"Be Afraid, Be Kind Of Afraid.","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Day 2 Of My 31 Days Of Horror 2.Scooby Doo is a 2002 adaptation of the popular cartoon gang of Mystery Incorporated. Raja Gonsell is in the directors chair. Lets see if this film is faithful to the cartoon series.The film follows Fred played by Freddie Prinze Jr Daphne played by Sarah Michelle Gellar Velma played by Linda Cardellini Shaggy played by Mathew Lillard and Scooby Doo voiced by Neil Fanning As they go their separate ways. The gang has just grown tired of doing the same thing over and over. 2 years later Emile Mondavarious played by Rowan Atkinson calls the gang up to come to Spooky Island to help solve a mystery.This is a film not meant to be taken seriously. The actors give good performances, The sets are creatively constructed and the humor is very kiddie yet very adult at the same time. I would Highly recommend Scooby Doo.Rated PG For Some Rude Humor, Language And Some Scary Action.1hr 26min/86min.****/**** "},{"Title":"Not exactly perfect, but a guilty pleasure in my opinion","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Hanna Barbara really hit the shelves in television history, did he? With such great classic cartoons like The Flintstones, The Jetsons, and many more, they became the example of pure entertainment for children who can watch anything on TV besides Cartoon Network, Nick Jr. Nickelodeon, and the Disney Channel. Before Barbara made those cartoons, he made his very first one in the late 1960s known as Scooby Doo, a popular cartoon show that gained an excellent audience and their children as well it spawned more shows along with some direct-to-video movies as well. Then, 33 years later, the show was turned into a live-action movie directed by the same woman who directed that third (and possibly the most trite) Home Alone film in the franchise. It got panned by critics and fans alike, but that didn't stop it from becoming a success at the box office and later spawned a sequel two years later along with two TV-movies.Well, I know all of you are going to hate me for this, but... I like this movie and I think it's a guilty pleasure on it's own merits. Sure, there are some predictability in the storyline, the humor may give some laughs to kids who watch this, but adults will find them inappropriate and the fact that Scrappy Doo, the most annoying character in Scooby Doo history was the villain the entire time and was a completely weak twist, but those flaws are overshadowed by it's redeeming qualities. The visuals are nicely made, the pacing is very fast, the dialog is humorous and witty and the music is pretty good too. The strongest aspect goes to the cast with the likes of Sarah Michelle Gellar, Freddie Prinze Jr., Linda Caredellini, Rowan Atkinson, Isla Fisher, and Matthew Lillard for capturing the personalities of Shaggy perfectly.Overall, Scooby Doo may not be a perfect adaptation of the show I once liked as a child, but it's not as bad as the critics said it was. It captured the spirit and tone of the show really well despite the issues that I've already stated which makes this a guilty pleasure in my opinion. "},{"Title":"awesome film","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" warning this can be a spoiler why does everyone hate this movie i mean the only reason this movie got a stank was because AN adult rated it and let Me just say THIS IS A KID MOVIE DUH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i mean think about it this movie was funny a awesome Hilarius and most of all the BEST FILM THAT WILL EVER BE MADE Because EVERYBODY THINKS DIFRANTLY!!!!!!! its an awesome movie and whoever thought differently I'm going to hurt them badly by the way so much better than any movie THIS IS A KID MOVIE not an adult movie kids should rate kid films and an adult should rate an adult movie I mean come on we kids like to see our favorite movies rated much more than 4 stars at least 8 stars i mean nobody cares about other peoples review "},{"Title":"Love this movie","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I actually really enjoyed watching the movie when it first came out. I personally think it is the best Scooby-Doo movie than the other ones. I loved it so much that I had bought the movie after it came out. I love Freddie Prince Jr. and Sarah Michelle Gellar (Prince) and that could have been another reason why I loved this movie. My daughter and nephews love watching this movie as well. I think it is quite entertaining for children as it was meant for them to be the main audience. Therefore, I would say that it is an overall great movie for kids of any age that love Scooby-Doo or just enjoy watching an entertaining funny movie. "}{"Title":"Meddling kids on the big screen","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The classic kids cartoon gets brought to the big screen in this attempt to create both a faithful adaptation of all that was loved about the original while also making a film for new fans. The casting is by and large good. Matthew Lillard may be the perfect Shaggy while Linda Cardellini certainly looks and sounds the part as Velma. I wasn't a big fan of the high kicking action hero Daphne but the relationship everyone is interested in is Shaggy and Scooby and they are at the centre of the action.It's a big and colourful film for all the family with all the pop culture references and catchphrases that we loved about the original series.Both the live action Scooby films have different charms but this is certainly a good attempt to bring the format back to life. "},{"Title":"A surprising success","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" For the benefit of anyone who doesn't know, Scooby Doo is an apparently endless series of cartoon episodes and movies featuring four young people and their giant almost-human dog who investigate apparent supernatural goings-on which mostly turned out to be due to a crook creating elaborate tricks.Let's be honest, the cartoon series - tremendously popular for many years - are utterly formulaic, poorly animated, and fairly witless and uninspiringly written.An odd item to choose for translation to live action (albeit with a CGI Scooby), and foredoomed to failure, one would think.Do you know, it's rather good. It starts with a short sequence which exactly replicates the TV series, which shows that it knows exactly what it's doing, then it goes off on an original story which takes a slightly - but not totally - different angle.The story is fine, the cast are excellent - they capture the essence of their TV forebears and then breathe life into them - and the effects are good (albeit noticeably on the cartoony side).This is a good family film. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" it is a great movie for the whole family to enjoy it is one good movie it is a funny movie it is a hoot you will like this movie a lot i even like it and this is a cool movie you will say wow this is a great movie it is one good movie i never saw a movie this good before it is one funny movie you will like this movie a lot this movie is the bomb it is one good movie you will like this movie a lot this movie is the bomb this movie is on fire it is one cool movie i like this movie a lot that i want to watch it now this is one cool movie. This is one good movie that you will like it a lot make this movie number 1 of all of the Scooby DOO movies i like this movie so much you will like it too this movie is a masterpiece a work of art a amazing movie that you just have too see it too believe it i like this movie a lot and so will you and your kids have a great Scooby DOO day you will like it "},{"Title":"Better the second time around","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Being a fan of the original cartoon I went to see this live-action version of Scooby-Doo in the theater in June, 2002 (Was it that long ago?). After the first 15 minutes or so I slowly became more and more disappointed. But after seeing it again last night, I must say it's better on repeat viewings.What most impressed me on my first viewing was Matthew Lillard as Shaggy and Linda Cardellini as Velma. Freddy Prinze Jr. as Fred was acceptable while Sarah Michelle Gellar as Daphne wasn't quite right for the role, although serviceable; I'm sure she got the role because of her popularity at the time. The addition of the winsome Isla Fisher as Mary Jane is a peripheral highlight. The CGI Scooby was good for the time (2002) and holds up pretty well.What disappointed me on my initial viewing? I was hoping for a straight live-action adaption of the cartoon sorta like 1994's The Flinstones. What I got instead was part homage and part parody. This would have worked for me but the film bogged down in the Spooky Island segment, which comprises the 2nd and 3rd acts, which amounts to a full hour of the film. What's wrong with this large chunk of the movie? The whole Spooky Island set was just too cartooney for a live-action homage. It's hard to explain, but it just turned me off. In hindsight, I suppose the cartooniness was intended since the film's based on a cartoon (aduh).Viewing it a second time, I had the same impressions of the film up to the 30-minute mark, but the final hour won me over. How so? I still don't like the limitations of the Spooky Island set but I was impressed with the whole 'well of souls' aspect and the complications thereof, as well as the ingenious way they included Scrappy-Doo in the plot. I used to think I was the only one who literally couldn't stand Scrappy-Doo, but now I see that my feelings were pretty much universal. What's wrong with Scrappy-Doo? Scrappy rightly become the symbol of an annoyingly overexuberant or cute character added to a series in an attempt to maintain ratings, also known as the Cousin Oliver Syndrome (named after the character from the final season of the Brady Bunch, of course).The film runs 86 minutes, which is perfect for cartooney fare like this, and was shot in Queensland, Australia.FINAL WORD This live-action version of Scooby-Doo is definitely better on repeat viewings. If you loathed it on your initial viewing be sure to give it another chance. Aside from obvious positives like Matthew Lillard and Linda Cardellini nailing Shaggy and Velma, the film features cutie Isla Fisher in a significant role, plus the creative plot elements of the 'well of souls' and Scrappy-Doo.GRADE C+ or B- (5.5/10 Stars) "},{"Title":"Amazing- coming from a die hard fan","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I've always loved Scooby Doo. Read all the books, watched him on cartoons almost every morning. I have piles of Scooby plush's' in bags now (used to all be on my bed). I am a die hard fan. When I heard there was going to be a movie, I was about 7 at the time, I was ecstatic. I fell in love with it from the very first time I watched it. No disappointments here. Truly funny and creepy, just as Scooby Doo episodes and story lines should be. Just the other day I watched this again and still love it. This will always be a favorite. I think some people critic movies too hard instead of enjoying it. Here's what I say Try the movie out (in general) and see if you like it. If not, then you know never to watch it again. If you do, well maybe you have a new favorite. I think this is a favorite for die hard Scooby fans. 10 years later (almost) and it's still a great movie. "},{"Title":"When in doubt, head for the hills","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I may seem cynical, but I know a bad film when I see one and Scooby-Doo most certainly is dis-pleasant, insulting, and horrifically bad. It's so bad, I can't believe Warner Brothers wanted to pursue the idea of a live action film, with the main character being the only point of animation - who is made into an awkward CGI character. In a good film like Who Framed Roger Rabbit, that wasn't directly made for kids, still carried on like a normal film without going over the top. This is a test of a child's supply of catoonish antics, and a parent's test of sanity.The saddest thing about Scooby-Doo is it pretty much paved the way for films based on an animated Television series to be made into full length films with the main character(s) in CGI. Later there would be Garfield, The Smurfs, and Yogi Bear just to name a few. I can't say that I've liked any of those films because they are simply awkward to look at. Something about a clearly animated animal functioning in modern society doesn't look or feel right. It's strange, and extremely out of place. It makes The Country Bears look fitting, and while that was a pathetic film, I can at least give it more credit for trying to use costumed bears rather than relying on an embarrassing and lazy technique.My main question is for the director and crew of this film; who was the target audience for this film? Was it fans of the original series, likely in their middle ages by now? Was it now younger fans who did or didn't watch the series today? Either way, it disappoints for anybody, except a child between the ages of three and six (pushing seven or eight) who are amused by poorly animated animals in the real world, loud sequences just to showcase the film's no-limits style, and dopey characters that hardly pass as detectives.Another thing I've began to question about Scooby-Doo is how much of it is true entertainment? Think about it, 20% of the show is logic detective work, 30% of the time the dog is a one man show, and the remaining half is the gang running scared. What kind of detective is that? I hope one day we get a lost episode of Columbo where Peter Falk runs scared from a crime scene. Sure, I'm comparing and contrasting two classics, one meant for adults and one meant for children, but what it boils down to is that Scooby-Doo was a shell of what it could've been.The one scene I remember loving as a kid was the intro at the factory where the Luna Ghost captures Daphne. I was entertained by it back then, and still was mildly amused when I watched it. Still, one good scene followed by eighty-one more minutes of nonsense isn't a good film in my book. I normally say right here where the film could've been good, but I don't know if there was a correct way to adapt such an odd idea to film properly without going over the top. When in doubt, leave it animated.Starring Matthew Lillard, Freddie Prinze, Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Linda Cardellini, Rowan Atkinson, Miguel A. Núñez, Jr., Isla Fisher, and with the voice of Neil Fanning. Directed by Raja Gosnell. "},{"Title":"Could have been better, but not dreadful","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I'm still not sure what to think of this movie. I saw it as a kid and liked it, because 1.) It was Scooby-Doo. What child did not like Scooby-Doo? 2.) It had funny moments that were bound to make kids laugh. And it did. 3.) It was memorable. When it came out on video, I immediately wanted it because I remembered everything about how much I enjoyed it. Being older now, my appreciation has decreased for this movie. The acting is OK, it doesn't commit too well to the original cartoon, and, despite being kids humor, I didn't find it that funny. But why is it that deep down, my childhood heart is telling me that I still like this movie? I guess there are a few reasons. All right, I admit I do chuckle at some parts, although I said before I didn't find it that funny. And I also like the creativity they put in it. I really liked the ideas of the monsters and what they do. And although the CGI isn't spectacular, it was still the beginning of the CGI reign, so they at least gave it a shot. I also remember seeing it in the the theaters, and Scooby's first appearance made the entire theater cheer. It was the first time seeing him on the big screen. He might not have been a cartoon, but it was still that great Dane kids knew and loved. So, overall, I guess it's a guilty pleasure. It'll keep kids entertained, so I recommend it as a movie rent for a weekend. "},{"Title":"Great movie but could have been better","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I gave it an 8 because I just do not agree with scrappy being the bad Lil' guy... I know things changed up a bit, but I think they could have made a different story line than they did with this one. I felt that Matthew Lillard and Scooby were the best in this movie as they played their character to almost the exact. Although the farting was just for more entertainment which did get me going. Velma's character in here was played okay, I don't recall her being the emotional one but it was okay... Daphne and Fred were not what I expected, I think they could have made their character better, but they were not too bad... I found myself more attached to the younger versions of Scooby Doo the mystery begins and the curse of the lake monster, I think the gang in there were much more entertaining. I can tell they all were having fun with what they were doing too... I think overall I am glad they did start the Scooby doo series non cartoon so I do overall appreciate that which is why I didn't give it too low of a rating because it still was a fun movie. "},{"Title":"I may be the only one who liked this movie","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I was kind of surprised about all of the negative reviews on this movie. I thought it did a very good job of making the transfer between the cartoon and to the real screen. I have to say that the acting was perfect for all of the characters. Shaggy sounds like shaggy and acts very well. Surprisingly this movie did have a fairly good mystery. This movie actually did have a central plot, and did pretty good making an interesting story. Though this isn't may favorite movie ever, I will say it is always enjoyable to watch so I watch every once in a while. When you re-watch the movie you will actually see a lot of clues throughout the entire movie. "},{"Title":"It is for the kids,and even then its a pretty fun movie...","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Scooby-Doo cartoon is what i grew up with and i was shocked and mad that they were turning it into a movie.I still went to the movie theater,though, to see if they had ruined the series ,and it definitely did not. It is cheesy and corny, with overused jokes, but it was fun.I found myself laughing a lot and i was reminded constantly of the cartoon. It had the same comedy, same type of standard plot,and the thing i would like to mention the most is the characters.All of them were in character and looked pretty close to the cartoon.When i watched i didn't think of Sarah Michelle Geller or Freddie Prince Jr. I simply related to the characters; they were genuine. I don't get all the hate here, it's just a fun, watch with family, movie. Scooby-Doo 2 i have to complain about. It's basically the same thing redone with very expected surprises and jokes;it's okay, but not as fun or even interesting.I don't see how it got a higher rating than the first.My rating******* "}{"Title":"As good as a pack of Scooby snacks ! (DVD)","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby was my favorite show when i was a child (along with Goldorak) and I rediscovered it as an adult when i was working in Bruxelles and when i went to the Warner Park in Madrid. That's why i went to see this movie at screen at its release and that I have a good time watching it again on DVD.For me, this Scooby franchise is among the best adaptation ever because i find all the original ingredients spooks, colors and laughs! And i don't forget the cast that is excellent with its chemistry. I also thank them for accepting those flashy suits and acting with seriousness such silly parts. The story is really written by a fan because he sticks to the basic plot and adds some original ideas that enrich the characters. The sets are top and Mr. Bean as guest-star is nice, although he should have done more.The deleted scenes and especially the opening credits should have included in the release because the movie is short (83 min) and those cuts are really funny! Maybe Scooby isn't the best CGI character ever done but the soul of Scooby is here and we pay attention to the action rather than the effects! Well, thanks to everyone because you made a Scooby fan really happy! Zoinks! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable!","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby-Doo is a pretty good movie but it's not the greatest in the world. I think they did a good job with the CGI Scooby but the acting is somewhat weak. I also loved Scrappy the evil dog. He is probably the best thing about the movie.This is based of the cartoon. Fred, Daphne, Velma, Shaggy, and Scooby are invited to Spooky Island where they investigate a few disturbances that happen in the area.I mentioned before that the acting is a little weak. I thought Matthew Lillard as Shaggy was annoying but there was a funny farting scene between Shaggy and Scooby. The other actors were just okay.The special effects are not too bad. They made some believable monsters.Overall, this is a decent film. I had fun watching this but I liked the cartoons better. I rate this film 7/10. "},{"Title":"Not a whole lot like the cartoon, but very enjoyable","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" First off, Scooby-Doo was the first movie I saw in theaters. Yes, even though I am 17 years old I did not go to the movie theater until I was nine years old. Now that I have that out of the way let me review this scooby-tastic film! This film is definitely not like the original cartoon as you will notice about 10 minutes into the film. For this movie to even have a great plot the character's personality had to have been expanded, which is what the film makers did. Some of the things they added I liked, some I did not. I did not care for Daphne's stuck up attitude and I really thought it was strange for her to be a kung-fu master. The scene where she fought that Spanish wrestler was just over-the-top nonsense. Fred, Velma, Scooby, and Shaggy were cool. So really Daphne was the only one they actually kinda screwed up on. I thought the Shaggy/Scooby fart and belch scene was extremely awkward and now that I am older I find it extremely unnecessary. I believe they really did a great job at making Scrappy both hatable and a little sorry for at the same time.THE GOOD 1) The fact that a Scooby-Doo movie was actually brought to the big screen and it wasn't bad.2) The character development (besides maybe Daphne) 3) the choice of having Matthew Lillard play Shaggy.4) Scooby-Doo as a character was nicely developed.5) The costume design was excellent.6) The soundtrack and score was terrific.7) It had a surprisingly nice plot, certainly not the best, but it was alright.THE BAD 1) perhaps the choice of Sarah Michelle Gellar for the role of Daphne was not the best choice.2) Freddie Prince Jr. was great, but again, perhaps their was a better choice.3) The Scooby/Shaggy belch and fart scene.4) Daphne was annoying and the kung-fu was extremely painful to watch.5) It could have been better ENDING STATEMENTS There are probably some other things I could mention or add if I re-watched the film. As of now this is all I have to work with.The movie was good. I enjoyed it and I do believe that is underrated. "},{"Title":"Underrated ,a good live action version of one of my favourite animated series.","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I would have to say that Scooby Doo the movie is a pretty good movie and its underrated.I find it to be a good live action version of one of my favourite animated series from childhood.However,I don't like how they make Scrappy Doo the villain because he was a character I liked and I don't see why he was so negatively received.Scooby Doo,Shaggy and the gang all decide to quit their mystery solving adventures,but reunite when they get invited to a place called Spooky Island,where a lot of weird and spooky things occur,which turns out to be one crazy adventure for the gang.-8/10 "},{"Title":"Zoinks, Scooby Dooby Voo-Doo shenanigans on Spooky Island.","Date":"3 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Directed by Raja Gosnell and written by James Gunn (perhaps better known nowadays for his Dawn Of The Dead screenplay and for directing the enjoyable Slither), the film of Scooby-Doo is a mixed bag for fans of the cartoon canine.The plot sees Mystery Inc. falling out after solving their latest case and going their separate ways until some time later they are all individually invited to Spooky Island. There is, of course, a mystery to be solved and after some petty stubbornness it's not long until the team are actually working as a team again and realising that they work better together than apart. All this amidst a selection of monsters, masked baddies, scooby snacks and the occasional declaration of jinkys.The cast are all great here, Sarah Michelle Gellar makes for a decent Daphne, Freddie Prinze Jr. is amusingly vapid as Fred, Linda Cardellini is a dead ringer for Velma (while hiding her natural gorgeousness) and Matthew Lillard IS Shaggy in the flesh so no disappointments there. Rowan Atkinson and Isla Fisher also get some screen time but the focus is mainly on the gang. Then we have Scooby-Doo, by no means a perfect CG creation but not too bad at all, and at least the voice is as you remember it.With it's brightly coloured sets, safe scares, breezy soundtrack and juvenile humour (the belching and farting contest between Shaggy and Scooby being a particular low point) it's quite clear that this movie is aimed at the kids but that's not a terrible thing. It IS a children's movie and it does what it should do reasonably well. There are also a few little cheeky nods to the adults who grew up with the gang and who grew old enough to make their own inferences about certain things (e.g. why Shaggy and Scooby are always so hungry) but, overall, it stays firmly in the kiddie zone.Not a terrible movie then but nothing great either. The effects vary from great to just okay, the supporting cast have little to do and we have to tolerate some scenes with Scrappy in them but it's something that should keep the kids amused and quiet for it's running time but it's surpassed, for entertainment value, by many, many other family films, including it's own sequel.See this if you like Scooby-Doo, Josie And The Pussycats, Scooby-Doo 2 Monsters Unleashed. "},{"Title":"It was better then i expected","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" By submitting this review you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your submission must be your own original work. Your review will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph. If you've seen this title please take the time to write a small review for others to read. Check the guidelines for further information. Posting your review is a two-step process. First, complete the form below and click Preview Then, we will show you how your review will appear online. When you're ready to submit it, click the Submit button on the bottom of the following page. Please remember that the guidelines state that if you write a spoiler without warning readers, your name will be added to a blacklist and all your future reviews will be discarded automatically and unread. So please be careful and use the 'contains spoiler' checkbox if your comment contains spoilers. Review preferences Name www-jats Location Australia "},{"Title":"'Rooby, 'Raggy and Relma","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The thing about writing and posting comments for IMDb is at first the world is wide open and you can pontificate about just what you want. Not being allowed multiple comments for one entity, you have to pick and choose certain things for whatever you're going to give an opinion on. Many people are perhaps too harsh on some films and others too sentimental about their raves.I was shocked there already were 482 comments for Scooby Doo and that the vote average is a pitiful 4.7 from 23916 different Dooers. It's loved it filter kicks in at 4.7 also, so if you voted at least a 5, your BS can go on that rave record for the big screen version of so many now adults' fave cartoon from the olden days of animation (pre The Simpsons). And there are over 50 perfect 10 reviews for this live action craziness.I adore Isla Fisher and Matthew Lillard as actors and Linda Cardellini is a goddess to me. Let's keep my thoughts about certain other people in this film under wraps for the time being. Lillard as Shaggy and Linda as Velma are as good as it gets for human incarnations of drawings. Their comic gifts are the saving grace of this far from perfect film. Check out Linda's wonderful deleted scene where she belts out You're Too Good To Be True. Is there another actress this versatile out there now? She's the modern update of the classic movie queen who could sing, dance and act. The whole point of Scooby Doo is silly fun at nobody's expense, except for that little bastard Scrappy! Whoever came up with a fricking nephew for Scoob must have been freebasing too many snacks back in the 70s!This film is suitable for little ones and any drug references should be dealt with by their parent(s), who probably had a bit of Mary Jane back in their teens. This movie isn't the downfall of civilization, it's a cartoon in human form. "},{"Title":"Such good fun","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Many things that were popular in their day have made a comeback. In some cases this has been a success, but in others whatever was brought back for a new generation was something better left in the past. Cartoons are one of the few things to remain timeless. Each decade has their own brand of cartoon characters and shows and some have been brought back and updated, but again only sometimes successfully. From the late 1960s to the 1990s the Hanna-Barbera series 'Scooby Doo, Where Are You?' had been reinvented over and over in both cartoon and feature length formats. After 'The Flintstones' was made into a successful movie in 1994 it was only a matter of time before other shows got the same treatment. That day came for that lovable canine and his pals from Mystery, Inc. and fortunately it wasn't an embarrassment.Pros Cast does a bang-up job and seem to be really enjoying themselves. The filmmakers do a pretty good job of capturing the spirit of the show. Some amazing visual effects. Fast-paced. Humor is dopey, but amusing. Impressive production design. Beautiful island scenery. Fun set pieces. A really inspired twist that fans would go nuts over.Cons Some of the CGI doesn't hold up well. I understand that makers of the film were trying to cater to both the fans and the current generation of youngsters here, but they tried too hard. All the extras are wearing the latest styles and using popular teen lingo, plus we get an appearance by Pop band Sugar Ray and combined these really age the film.Final thoughts I know a rating of 8 out of 10 seems a bit generous, but I just can't help it. This movie is so much unpretentious fun and I just adore the original series and characters. Plus it's not at all poorly made. It demands nothing more than for us to kick back and be entertained and it works.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Scooby-Doo","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The only good things about this film are the amount of good actors, who waste their time hardly doing anything, the scene with Shaggy (Scream's Matthew Lillard) and Scooby-Doo (Neil Fanning) burping and farting, and that's probably it, from director Raja Gosnell (Home Alone 3, Big Momma's House). The rest of the film is just a repeat of the cartoon's capers with okay effects and a very boring story. Starring I Know What You Did Last Summer's Freddie Prinze Jr. as Fred Jones and Sarah Michelle Gellar as Daphne Blake, Linda Cardellini as Velma Dinkley, Rowan Atkinson as Emile Mondavarious, Spooky Island Owner, Isla Fisher as Mary Jane, Pamela Anderson and Scott Innes as Scrappy-Doo. I always hoped Scrappy wouldn't be in this film, but it's pretty interesting making him the villain, although they could have killed him. Scooby-Doo was number 8 on The 100 Greatest Kids' TV Shows, and he was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons. Adequate. "},{"Title":"The Cartoon Show Was Far Better","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" A very disappointing live-action version of the long-running TV cartoon franchise,which perhaps suggests it would've been a better idea keeping the concept as animation.The film actually gets off to a fair start,with the familiar fake ghost device which was used to such enjoyable effect in the TV shows,and even Pammy Anderson(who herself often looks so artificial in real life that she could easily pass as a cartoon character!)has a quite amusing cameo.Thereafter,the film saddles itself with a rambling uninteresting plot,a witless script,and banal and uninventive incident combined with not particularly impressive special effects which overwhelm any chance of interest in the characters.Matthew Lillard's performance is actually perfectly good considering the circumstances,but like all the other main parts,it is terribly underwritten.Capable and beautiful young actresses like Isla Fisher and Sarah Michelle Gellar(who is mostly reduced to indulging in sub-Buffy-like martial arts combat)are given no chance to shine,though this is not surprising given the dull,leaden dialogue they are given.The superb Rowan Atkinson is totally wasted in his part which had comic potential,and Scooby Doo himself is a considerable letdown,lacking the charm of his cartoon equivalent(the curiously hollow-eyed visage here makes him less sympathetic and even sinister on occasion).As for the ever-irritating Scrappy Doo,forget it.The film also has some especially dismal would-be jests about breaking wind and urinating,utterly out of context with this concept and it fails completely. All in all,an over-produced effort which should've taken much more time on script and character,which generally the much,much less expensive old cartoon TV show did so to much more entertaining effect.More millions spent does not a superior version make.Definitely in this case. "}{"Title":"Good, not great","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby Doo was, and still is, a cult icon. Nearly every person in the world knows of Scooby Doo the talking great Dane. The animated gang, Scooby, Shaggy, Fred, Daphne and yes even Velma have already made movies. A lot. All fully animated, all quirky and all brilliant. Now they are hitting the big screen as real life characters. I think the cast is perfect. More than perfect. They wanted a real life coupe, a.k.a, Freddie Prinze Jr and Sarah Michelle Geller, to play Daphne Blake and Fred Jones. Velma's character is fab too, just like the real cartoon. Not to mention Shaggy, he is the most life like. You can tell from the beginning that this was a high cost movie. But worth it man, worth it. Not enough people went to see this film. It's a breakthrough. You might be wondering, he loves it, he thinks it's the best, so how come he gave it a 7 out of 10, and entitled his review good, but not great. Well, the actual film is not that fab, it's worth buying, but it's not something that you would really want to watch every day, or even every week. 7 out of 10 is a suitable grade for a film as technological as this. But the plot is a bit iffy. The second is better. Just look at my review for that one. "},{"Title":"Scooby Doo is stupidoo!","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I have always liked the original Scooby Doo, and when I heard that there was going to be a live-action movie of it, I thought that sounded kinda cool. But when I saw it, it was nothing like the original Scooby Doo. It was terrible&#133; It was also very poor. The story was so idiotic. It went like this the gang breaks up or something, then they win these tickets to an island and then rejoin and solve that the mystery culprit there all along was Scrappy Doo. But I kinda liked Scrappy. Why did they make him a bad guy? I guess people that he was annoying. The acting was so and so, the animation to see a Great Dane go all computery, big deal. The music I forgot. So, over all, each film department stank, sorry! I was so embarrassed when I saw this film. It was nothing like Scooby Doo at all. There were lame jokes, dumb emotional scenes and all, yucky bathroom humor (BLECH!) and lots more thrash. So don't see it! It was so bad. "},{"Title":"Overall this is a pile of 'Doo' - it's good qualities are swamped by its bad qualities","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Let me start this review by saying that, even when I was younger, I never really got into Scooby-Doo. I felt that it was a one-dimensional cartoon, the plot and ending were recycled about a thousand times over and it felt so 60's-ish. Even taking this into account, 'Scooby-Doo' the movie is a piece of c***, created solely to bring in some cash, not because the studio concerned (Warner Brothers) wanted to at least try to make a good movie. This is clearly shown by the choice of director, cast, etc. There are a few redeeming qualities, but they are swamped by the wretchedness of the rest of the film.Anyway, on to the 'plot'. I put 'plot' in inverted commas because it is as flimsy as the plot for your average Scooby-Doo cartoon. You see, Fred takes all of the credit for the Scooby Gang's successes and Daphne's sick of being a 'damsel-in-distress' (more on this later), so the gang split up, leaving Shaggy and Scooby to languish over the mystery van. Two years later, they are reunited by Mondavrious, who is worried by teens attending his amusement park turning into zombies. Much derring-do occurs before the real villain is suddenly introduced and is (predictably) defeated. I don't feel at all guilty about spoiling the plot by the way, because there's precious little TO spoil.Now, as a point of interest, the setting and also, the CGI. I don't usually mention the setting of movies, but the setting of Scooby-Doo is notable for it's cheap, neon, garish tackiness. It is at it's worst in the amusement park, where the garish colours, horrendous-looking CGI creatures, bright lights and the tackiness of all and sundry will make you a) fast forward b) become violently ill c) have an epileptic seizure. To sum up what the amusement park looks like, I'm just going to utter Marilyn Manson several times. While I'm on the subject of CGI, Scooby-Doo himself is horribly conceived and looks worse than the Scooby-Doo of lore.The acting is the best part of Scooby Doo, which is actually not saying that much. Linda Cardellini does a pretty good Velma, while Matthew Lillard has Shaggy's voice, look, facial expressions and personality down perfectly - even more praiseworthy considering that all he has to work with is a nonexistent CGI character. On the flipside, Freddie Prinze Jr., our washed-up one-dimensional pretty boy wannabe actor of the moment, screws up the role of Fred. I mean, how the hell do you screw up Fred?! He's MEANT to be bland and superficial! Truly remarkable. As for Sarah Michelle Gellar, she looks hot as, that's for sure. Unfortunately, she misses Daphne's personality completely, instead preferring to act like Buffy. She even participates in a laughable catfight with several men, but that's more the fault of the script. Her turn as a damsel-in-distress is truly unbelievable, even more so if you know about her martial arts skills. Also, what the hell is Rowan Atkinson doing in this movie? He is kind of amusing, but then again, he's amusing in just about everything he's in.I'm going to load my conclusion with a list of Scooby clichés, which suits the movie and indeed, the entire franchise, since it is all so clichéd. So to sum up then, this is 'Scooby-Poo'. A note to the studio that released this mess I would have been so much more content with life if it weren't for you meddling studio hacks. I guess (or I hope) that you're thinking 'Scooby-Don't'. Zoinks! You know what? You're right. To milk more money out of the movie-going public, they released another one. Jinkies! Rhat Really Rucks! Like I said earlier, there are a few good qualities here, just that they are buried underneath all of the other 'Doo'.1.5/5 stars "},{"Title":"Ramburgers","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This was not a great movie in any way, yet somehow there was something appealing to it which made it not the worst movie I have ever witnessed. You walk into this film with a level of expectancy. You want to see the same characters, stories, and clichéd moments that you did while watching the television show, and you do. The characters are creative, the story is very similar to the cartoon, and the clichéd moments are there in full force. Coming from a household that used to religiously watch this cartoon, I wanted this level of security, and I found it in this film. As a film watcher, I don't want to see the director of this film taking too many original risks and really destroying the culture of the cartoon. It stayed true to its roots, and for that you cannot fault this film. There were some humorous moments that made you think back to the cartoon, there were silly times where you just had to shrug and breathe in deeply, then there were some horrid moments that really just made you reach for the STOP button on your DVD player. Yet, I was expecting this. So, coming from an expectancy perspective, it was perfect. Coming from an entertainment value, it could have been a bit tighter.To begin, the actors. I agree that a remake like this may not have garnished the cream of the crop of Hollywood hitters, but I believe we could have done a bit better than Freddy Prinze, Jr. and Matthew Lillard. Sarah Michelle Gellar, I believe, could have been better as well. Here we have some C level players who are a huge hit with the teen audiences, bringing to life characters, which were created during an older generation's time. It just seemed a bit jumbled to me. Then, to make matters even more confusing, we had the famed Rowan Atkinson as the sneaky Spooky Island owner. Disappointing acting coupled with the great Mr. Bean doesn't quite fit for me. He should have been used so much more to his potential. He could have stolen this film from the others and made it into his own, but for some strange reason, bland acting breeds more bland acting, so you can't expect much.Outside of the acting, there isn't much else going on. Nearly everything that happens we have seen time and time again through the cartoons. Not much originality was brought into this film, while it felt like the money that should have gone to the creative department, was spent instead on sub-par CGI. Scooby looked horrible. I believe there was one instance where I could literally see right through him. Then, you have these un-storied creatures that look like Donnie Darko's rejects. Coupled with an annoying Scrappy-Doo. There was potential in the CGI, but it seemed as if they low-balled and went with cheap CGI to appease the smaller child audiences. The jokes needed to be planted deeper into the series. I remember watching The Brady Bunch movie and laughing because the jokes just seemed to play off the taboo of the series. I believe more focus on this with the Scooby-Doo movie would have raised this review another notch.Overall, I felt cheap after watching this film. It wasn't a horrible film (though there was quite a bit of poor graphics and acting) because it gave you what you wanted when you walked in. It gave you a mystery, the clichéd and overused structure of the original series, and that final moment when the true villain is revealed. It followed a structure that I wanted, and I am ok with that for this film. Normally, I would have asked for better, but there are some cartoons that do not need their internal structure tampered with. Scooby-Doo was worth the one viewing, but I cannot say that I will ever be pleased to see it again. The fact that there was the horrendous farting contest in the center of the film destroyed the entire experience for me. That was the kind of humor I was not prepared for, nor did I feel it best represented the series. The Mark McGrath cameo also did it in for me, but that my friend &#133; well &#133; is another story. If you have never seen this film I suggest it once, but I do not feel that it needs a second viewing. Scooby-Doo is alive, but in an animated version that continues to create laughter and creativity &#133; unlike this shoddy film.Grade *** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Crap!!! (but adorable Sarah Michelle)","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" There is only a good thing about this movie and her name is Sarah Michelle Gellar.I love Sarah Michelle but the movie sucks.I like the seventies cartoon, but now when they made a movie of that, they couldn't do it worse.The plot is so nonsense and so boring, the Scooby looks so fake, the ending so corny.. anyway i don't know what was the worst thing about the movie.But only for one thing was good to see the movie, and as i said before, that was Sarah Michelle Gellar, the drop dead gorgeous beauty now with red hair, and with that dress looked super adorable, it was good to see her after been so bored watching the film.So i'll give it 2/10, i would give it 1 but because Sarah Michelle i'll give it an extra point. "},{"Title":"Animated movie comes to life!","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" My kids have this movie. I didn't think it would be good taking a movie that was a cartoon for many years and bringing it to life! It's a pretty decent movie with some pretty good acting! I liked Sarah Michelle Gellar as Daphne. I also liked Freddy Prinze Jr. as Freddy Jones. The story was about the gang that just finished yet another mystery. They all decide not to do any more mysteries together. We fast forward and see that they get invited to Mystery Island owned by Rowan Atkinson who is better known as Mr. Bean. I was very much into the story and enjoyed it from beginning to end! Definitely worth watching this one! "},{"Title":"Much better than almost any other movie!!!!","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I rented this movie almost 3 years ago and i have to say i was so impressed, it was funny! exciting! cool! and MAD good. You can't actually pass up a good opportunity on seeing this awesome movie. I freaking hate the people who voted it down to a 4.8. It is much better than that, much better than silence of the lambs, the shawshank redemption, the godfather, se7en, the lord of the ring movies and the pixar films, and don't dare arguing because i think it is the best exciting, fun, great movie ever created!!! It is really worth renting and buying, Freddie Prince Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Matthew Lillard, and Linda Cordellini are awesome. Perfect 10 on my scale!! "},{"Title":"Liked the movie and looking forward to sequel!","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  There have been a lot of comments about the movie, the interesting ending... the characterizations, etc.  Well, I wanted to add my two bits into the fray.  Actually I enjoyed the movie, and as a kid I was a fan of the series, with the exception of the Scrappy-Doo episodes, which is when I stopped watching the series.  However, there are a few aspects of the movie that I wanted to comment on.   I agree with everyone about Matthew Lillard's Shaggy was right on the money.  I was absolutely amazed at his embodiement of the character.  And Linda Cardellini's portrayal of Velma was also spot on.  I'm not sure if the production team intentionally goofed on the embodiement of Fred (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) and Daphne (Sarah Michelle Geller), or whether fault lies in both the direction of Raja Gosnell and the writing of Craig Titley and James Gunn.  I would have to guess that the writers (who did an admirable job with the rest of the story).  Rowan Atkinson (of Black Adder and Mr. Bean fame) was also flawless as Emile Mondavarious.  The ending was a kind of a sweet revenge for taking the joy of Scooby Doo away from my childhood.  Over all, I loved the movie, I own in on VHS... and plan on getting the DVD soon.  Not to mention I WILL see Scooby Doo 2, Monsters Unleashed.    "},{"Title":"And also","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I've already made a comment on this film, but I must add something. I had said that I was afraid it might be awful, but that it turned out to be quite good. And also that I wanted to see it again at the big screen. Well, I ended up seeing it 14 times at the movies. I don't have the soundtrack or anything, but I must say this is one of my favorites. I just thank God for it sure was fun to watch this one. "},{"Title":"deep?","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Is it deep?  No.  Is it juvenile? Well of course!  Is it funny?  Well only if you enjoy fart jokes, and Matthew Lillard doing a very suprisingly good Shaggy.  I loved the cartoon as a child, and still find some of the cartoons funny, but to me Casey Kasem will always be the voice of Shaggy.  (Still have to give credit to Matthew though.)  It is a dumb plot of course, but filled with moments i am sure i would have loved when I was six.  Maybe because I tried to revert my thinking back to when I was six, I was able to appreciate it the best I could.  I am sure the sequel will have the same kinda of plot, and that Scooby will look even more realistic.  Even though this will not be considered a classic...ever, kids, and the adults that watched this as children will still enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Two paws up!! Way Up!!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo is about the famous gang of Mystery Inc. and their many adventures.  Unfortunately, the gang ends up going their seperate ways.  But the old days of solving mysteries return when they head to Spooky Island, where they end up investigating strange occurrences that are taking place.  The gang gives a great performance.  Fred(Freddie Prinze, Jr.) is still the dumb one.  Daphne(Sarah Michelle Gellar-oh baby!) is still the sexy damsel in distress.  Velma(Linda Cardellini-oh baby!) is still the smart one.  Shaggy(Matthew Lillard) still loves eating everything he can get his hands on.  And Scooby is still the lovable, adorable and quite funny Great Dane.  This was one hilarious joyride that I absolutely loved.  I can't wait until the sequel comes out.  Well as that famous Great Dane would say, SCOOOBY DOOOBY DOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!  ****stars.  (Warner Bros.) "},{"Title":"Slightly less entertaining than a half-hour episode of the original series","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Considering all the old TV shows that have been remade for the big screen (The Addams Family, The Brady Bunch Movie, The Flinstones, etc.), it was only a matter of time before Scooby and the gang were featured in a big budget film.  Unfortunately, the end product is little more than a routine episode of Scooby-Doo (in live action), except it is 86 minutes long and cost over $80 million to make.  I have always been a fan of most of the Scooby-Doo series (not a hardcore fanatic, mind you, but a casual fan). Even today, I find most of the episodes (excluding those featuring the ANNOYING Scrappy-Doo) to be enjoyable in a mindless sort of way. However, as I watched Scooby-Doo the movie, I knew there was something missing. It had all the basic elements of Scooby-Doo, but none of the innocent charm that made the original series so fun to watch.  I guess I shouldn't have been too disappointed about this movie (considering how difficult it must have been to remake a 33-year-old cartoon show as a major Hollywood film), but so much more could have been done.Some other notes about Scooby-Doo-the best part of the movie was easily Matthew Lillard.  His impression of Shaggy was dead-on, from the look of the character to the voice and mannerisms.  I'll bet he made Casey Kasem (voice of the original Shaggy) proud.-the visual effects were impressive, as well as the special effects. Then again, the film (with no real A-list stars) cost $84 million to make, so it should have looked good.-I thought the CGI Scooby looked very good, considerng there was nothing else the producers could have done to make him look realistic in a non-animated film (Large animatronic puppet?  Person in an oversized Scooby suit?  No way).  I only wish that Don Messick had lived long enough to provide Scooby's voice for this movie.  Messick was *THE* voice of Scooby-Doo, and he cannot be replaced by anyone.-was the farting contest between Scooby and Shaggy really necessary?  I know little kids (the target audience for this movie) would find it really funny, and the use of gross-out humor (a la American Pie) is widespread in comedies today.  But I thought this was a little bit too much.-I don't understand why Freddie Prinze Jr. is so popular (true, he is young and good-looking, but there are so many other actors who fit in those two categories).  Honestly, Prinze is a wooden, charmless actor who has no real onscreen presence.  Only Prinze could screw up in the role of Fred (who is SUPPOSED to be bland and superficial), and just hearing him speak in this movie irritated me.  Note to Freddie your career may be red hot right now, but once your youthful looks disappear...-Linda Cardellini is hot.  That is all.Overall, Scooby-Doo is not a horrible film, but watching three episodes of the original Scooby-Doo, Where Are You! would be more entertaining than watching this one movie. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it, well kinda...","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I've been waiting long to see Scooby Doo, I'm a big fan of the cartoon, and used to watch it religiously when I was little. The movie went to fast, too many colours, too much computer animation, it made me dizzy, or maybe I was just tired? It isn't that bad, I mean I'm sure kids will enjoy it, but i'm not sure about the adults. My favorite character was Daphne, played by Sarah Michelle Gellar, i think she did a great job, she looked so beautiful and at the same time she was hilarious. Linda Cardelinni was funny too. Those were the only characters i found to be amusing. Well the important part was that i enjoyed it, well kind off, Maybe i'm just getting too old for these movies(i'm 14) but still, maybe I just lost joy in kids movies. I would give scooby doo 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Just the facts","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  MOVIE> Good, Okay, passibleFACTS> the reason the movie made so much money is simple. Most people going were there to see Sarah Michelle Gellar. Buffy fans had been excited about this movie for some time because it featured Sarah and her fiance. Other reason the movie made so much money kids, gullible kids. Even scooby-doo fanatics were not all that excited by the movie although some caved in and saw it.SHOULD YOU SEE IT?if you've waited this long then why not. Still wondering sure its not a horrible movie and for kids its hilarious (trust me I went 3 times with my little nephews, they loved it). And you are renting it so you arent wasting your 6, 7 bucks like you would at the movies. Just see it.DVD Worth it?Yes! Without at doubt. It has a few extra features that are worth it. Especially a full cast commentary through out the entire film which movies *RARELY* do. And for the kids there are games, hidden features, ect. The movie grows on you after you see it for a second time (or in my case for a 30th something time!)SassyGirl_Pie "},{"Title":"Thumbs-up","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It was just a lot of fun.  With humor for kids and adults.  If you're looking for intellectual stimulation, look elsewhere.  What you'll find here is a silly, funny movie that pokes fun at itself and the original cartoon, while expanding on the original characters. "},{"Title":"Fun and amusing","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" One of the most highly anticipated releases of 2002, the live-action version of 'Scooby Doo' was grilled by the critics, and perhaps unfairly so. Credit must go to the casting director who picked the perfect cast to portray Fred, Velma, Daphne, and especially Shaggy. Matthew Lillard's portrayal of Shaggy is dead-on, and he easily rescues any dull spots in the script. Linda Cardellini's Velma is also near perfect, and quite enjoyable as well as appealing. The computer generated Scooby-Doo is not half-bad, and the overall feeling of the movie is that great time and care was given to the special effects. Unfortunately, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Freddie Prinze, Jr. fall flat as Daphne and Fred. Prinze, the king of bad movie choices, is particularly annoying. Their interpretations of the classic Hanna-Barbera characters are beefed up for this movie, and become tiresome. Sadly, British actor Rowan Atkinson (of 'Mr. Bean' fame) is totally wasted. His character never gets a chance to develop, which is a mystery within itself. While the plot could have been better, the film is executed very well. The Spooky Island atmosphere is eclectic and colorful, with an amazing amount of detail. While the script is not the greatest, the 86-minute flick does not let up for a minute. What makes the movie either appealing or pathetic is the fact that bathroom humor is sprinkled throughout the movie. It can be hysterically funny (Shaggy and Scooby-Doo's burping/farting contest is hysterical), but children who were expecting the cartoon humor will be caught offguard. Another plot screw-up is the idea of the five-some angrily splitting up in the beginning. The audience is fully aware that the group (dubbed 'Mystery, Inc.') will get back together to solve the mystery, so the first ten minutes of the movie is wasted as the viewer waits inpatiently for the group to reunite. If the movie bombed at the box office, is does not seem to matter, since 'Scooby-Doo 2' is due for a 2004 release. Hopefully, the writers will tie up some loose ends (and replace Prinze), and make the next installment of what looks to be an ongoing series, better than the first. "},{"Title":"Should Be Called Shaggy-Doo","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The movie version of `Scooby-Doo' does a good job capturing the look, the sound and the feel of the original cartoon series &#150; which may explain why it works effectively for the first 15 minutes or so and for no time thereafter.  The creators of the show knew what they were doing when they limited their running time to a mere half hour (minus commercials).  And, even though the film lasts only a short 86 minutes itself, this particular installment is still a full hour longer than any `Scooby-Doo' episode has a right to be.Although the film itself is a witless bore, special praise should still be lavished on Matthew Lillard, who does a bang up job as Shaggy, Scooby's hyperkinetic best friend.  Lillard has nailed down the look, the voice and the mannerisms of the character to a tee and one hopes his career will go far once he ends up in more substantive vehicles than the one he is trapped in here.   The other actors (Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar and Linda Cardellini) provide the requisite energy for the roles they've been called on to play and cannot be held responsible for the overall shoddy nature of the uninspired screenplay.  As with most modern day `event' pictures, the special effects here end up overwhelming the pedestrian storyline, but this lowest-common-denominator aspiration seems to be what pulls in the big box office bucks these days so I guess we're stuck with it, at least for the foreseeable future.  Scooby Doo himself seems like just another CGI effect, partly because, as a character, his inarticulateness ends up relegating him to the status of secondary player in his own movie.  He just doesn't seem very important to the action of the story. `Scooby-Doo' has a nice, sunny look to it and it is never really offensively bad.  It simply makes one nostalgic for the days when crowd-pleasing blockbusters (`Star Wars,' `E.T.' etc.) could, in addition to entertaining us, make us both believe and care.   "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was absolutely histerical. The computer graphics in this movie are awesome, and the way they made scooby, well......everyone loves scooby. And Matthew Lillard, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Freddie Prince Jr., and Linda Cardellini played their parts excellent.  "},{"Title":"Shaggy is the best reason to see this.","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo is a classic cartoon...no wonder Hollywood was compelled to make a live action movie, naturally with a little CGI thrown in. Why not use a real great dane and just animate the mouth??? Why Freddie Prinze Jr??? Why Sarah Michelle Gellar??? They are nothing like the cartoon versions of Fred and Daphne!!! Velma was cool.  Shaggy as played by Matthew Lillard was the highlight of the movie; he does an excellent Kasey Kasem ZOINKS!!! The plot was...eh...okay I guess. Since they are definitely making a sequel, let's hope they rearrange the casting of Fred and Daphne and keep Shaggy just the way he is. "},{"Title":"Writers had to resort to pottie humor again.","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Bad movie. Seems that when writers can't come up with anything clever in a Kids movie they have to resort to farting, belching and scatological references. Well, this piece of garbage is no exception. The cartoon was really good, this movie is really bad. This type of humor worked well in Blazing Saddles when it still contained some shock value but now it's commonplace in so many movies (especially kids movies). Gas-passing and bodily functions are now necessary to make kids laugh. There's no shock value in it any more, and the humor is playground humor or bathroom humor. Whatever happened to clever wit? Surely it could not have completely disappeared... I hope not, and I won't call you Shirley... "}{"Title":"Always liked the TV show, but the movie sucks.","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'll be honest and admit that I only made it about 20-25 minutes into this movie before I gave up.  That's right, if I'd been in the theater, I'd have walked out!  I almost wish that I had been, because pressing Stop wasn't nearly as satisfying as storming out would have been.  I still stormed out of the room, but that just wasn't the same.I grew up watching the cartoon, always enjoyed it, and even though I don't have much use for it as an adult, I still think more highly of it than of 90% of the other cartoons that I grew up with.  Now, I don't particularly think that it deserves a movie, but I sat down to watch it with an open mind, hoping that it might at least revive pleasant memories of the TV show. Wrong!Sight gags that work for an animated cartoon just aren't enough to justify an entire movie, yet that seems to be just what they were attempting with this film.  Worse still, they just don't work without the animation. Stupid, unlikely, piano-from-the-sky type antics are ok when Wile E. Coyote is on screen, but not when a real actor is dodging them.  And when I see a real person running from a ghost, I expect the ghost to be truly frightening, not look like a guy in a three dollar Halloween costume. They probably thought they were being true to the original show, where you could always tell that the bad guys weren't real ghosts.  But then the characters were animated, so you could pretend that they were stupid enough to fall for it.  With a real person, though, no one can suspend disbelief enough to imagine them truly being scared by that.  Then again, it's hard to suspend disbelief enough to believe anybody would make this movie and think that it was good.Anyway, I gave it a 2 instead of a 1, but only because 5-year-olds might be able to enjoy it.  Provided they aren't particularly discriminating.  And even to them, I would point out that they can still catch reruns of the original show for free.   "},{"Title":"Yawn!","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'd tell you what I thought about this movie if I hadn't fell asleep after about 20 minutes.  From what I did see casting was OK.  Shaggy was awesome. Matthew Lillard even had Shaggy's voice down.  Velma was good as well. Daphne was stupid and any movie with Freddie Prinze Jr. in it makes me cringe.  I'm sorry, but I just don't think he's a good actor.  Scooby's character was done OK but I think he could have been a little more realistic.  The CGI was kind of mediocre.  I've seen better in other movies. I did get a few laughs from what I saw but the whole thing seemed a little tedious.  I wasn't expecting much and that seemed to be too much.  The movie rental had to go back to the store today so I'll try to catch it when it comes on cable so I can at least finish watching it. "},{"Title":"Actually better than anticipated.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  What makes it tolerable is that real human beings were cast as real human beings, even though based on cartoon characters.  Being not-at-all a fan of cartoons, I would not otherwise have given it the time of day, which is to say that I approached it with no previous knowledge of the stories or characters represented.  Therefore, whether it is faithful to the cartoons or not I can't say.  I was expecting something juvenile and corny however, and was surprised to find that it rose a bit above that level.  Basically, it's an action/adventure story with monsters and scary themes.  In the solving of their mystery there is a cute girl and a smart one, a self- absorbed pretty-boy and a dumb one, who all play off each other in company with a likeable but stupid dog.  But on the down side, the humans cast in those roles are a bit too old to pass as the adolescents they are supposed to represent, thus introducing a sexiness unnecessary to the story.  If they had cast 14-year-olds rather than 24-year-olds, it would have been much better, but at least it wasn't boring. "},{"Title":"Good but need worked on!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked part of this movie. There are quite a few things I hated about this movie. Sarah Michelle Gellar really looked like Daphne, but like it didn't seem like the writers made her act like Daphne though. They made her into a helpless girl thats always in trouble.   Mathew Lillard was awesome as Shaggy. He was the one who saved the movie. No one could ever be as good as he was. And I say the same as Linda Cardellini was Velma, she was awesome too. The only one I didn't like was Mr. Price as Fred. Boy was he awful. Scooby could have been animated better. If they can make a dinosaur look real in Jurassic Park surely they can make a talking dog look real. I hate who the bad guy was in the movie. That was just wrong. Lets just say on the cartoon he was a good guy. The ending was dumb but I enjoyed it though. The music was cool and stuff. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good family movie.  "},{"Title":"not my cup of tea","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Movie full of cheesy jokes. For some reason the characters had personalities which had drifted away from the cartoons I remember. Fart-jokes in the movie weren't funny. There were some cute jokes, and i enjoy how they make fun of Scrappy Doo, but mostly poorly written.  "},{"Title":"Watchable and reasonably entertaining","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The story is probably the best feature of this film, it's well thought out for this type of movie and parodies the original Scooby Doo cartoon quite nicely. And I like the way that the characters have been brought across from the cartoon to live-action, not entirely faithful but better for it. The rest is an average effort. Being a CGI enthusiast I found the Scooby character to be unimpressive, but not unbelievable. If you're a kid or just curious, give it a go. If you're an adult, die-hard, Scooby fan then you should probably steer clear of this one and don't come anywhere near me either, you make me nervous.  "},{"Title":"Excuse me this is a kids film!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a film for kids, which exceptionally their parents can watch.I thought they almost got the perfect balance of translating a cartoon onto the screen with real actors. There was also none of the painful stretching that is normally obvious when a 20 minute program is put to film.Incidentally Buffy was quite delicious to look at.  As a parent I've already seen it thru about 5 times it's still fun!! "},{"Title":"Pretty silly in an innocent sort of way","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this was gonna be AWFUL. With A as in 'acidicly stupid,' W as in 'whoah it sucks,' F as in 'forget this trash,' U as in 'uniformily loathesome,' and L as in 'la la la, I can't hear this movie, la la la.' But when I finally caught it on video I actually liked it. Sort of. I feel bad saying that somewhat. Everyone in the film industry seemed to universally pan it, but I just couldn't find the strength too. I liked how the actors played the characters (Velma being my favorite next to Shaggy), and even though Scooby himself was an insanely obvious special effect, he was animated very well and looked adorable. The story is very disposable, straining the limits of what you would call a mystery, but it is fun and light. My thinking, however, is that the whole thing would either scare orconfuse young kids. Many of the jokes have to do with how the old show worked (Fred and Daphne pairing up to 'find clues,' a Don Knotts reference, pretty standard 80's comedy stuff), and the set designs are more Nightmare Before Christmas than anything else, which might freak out the litt'luns. I however, smiled at the comedy, liked the insanely bright colors of the sets and clothing, and digged Scrappy's cameo as the villain. But again, towards the end the puppy mutates into this snarling mega monster which might make your child cower in fear. There are also 'turning on' jokes and light swearing, so take all of these things into account before letting them watch it. I would have liked to see the stuff they cut (like the apparent lesbian joke with Velma), and the Mary Jane character was not so much funny as really obvious (I mean really, who hasn't joked that Shaggy was a stoner? That should have been left on the cutting room floor). And who the heck was the guy Velma falls for? He is literally in the movie for ten seconds, but we are supposed to believe there was a love story going on between the two. I don't even remember catching his name!!! But all in all, Scooby Doo is a cheesy, entertaining flick that is not nearly as bad as one would think. The Flintstones Viva Rock Vegas, on the other hand...well, ya know. 2.5/4 stars "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as you'd expect","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This wasn't the worst movie ever -- in fact, I think it was better than the cartoon, but I absolutely HATE the cartoon.  My kids hoodwinked me into renting this, but it surprised me.  The CGI Scooby stunk, but at least he was a better actor than the Hanna-Barbera version.  Matt Lilliard was excellent as Shaggy, and it was great to see Scrappy get his comeuppance. And Linda Carlentino and Sarah Michelle Gellar are always a pleasure to watch.Freddie Prinze Jr. did well with an unplayable part.Overall, a five -- when I fully expected it to be a one. "},{"Title":"scoooby dpdooooo!!!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Yes Scooby truly reigns supreme in this movie.The acting was hilarious and it's good to see heavy buffy in a lighter role.  All the actors stayed true to form and the movie didn't get too scarey for kids ..I vote to keep it on the shelf and not flush it down the chute..this time. "}{"Title":"forgive me, Linda!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Just a personal note to Linda Cardellini forgive me for mis-remembering your name.  But I believe I got it right this time.Oh, I need another two lines for this to submit, so here goes Lalalalalalalalalalalalala Whoa-whoa LalalalalalalaThere, is that enough?  IMDB-folk feel free to fix Ms. Cardellini's name in my original comment and totally delete this one!)  "},{"Title":"fun, some real highs, some real misfires","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Matthew Lillard is very convincing and charismatic as Shaggy, and Linda Cardelini does almost as good a job inhabiting Velma. Scooby takes some getting using to initially, but does a good job carrying the movie that bears his name.Freddie Prinze Jr. is a real miscasting of Fred, and is very nearly awful. Only occasionally does he get the voice right - very rarely (though at least he tries), and in terms of body type he is just wrong. Likewise, Sarah Geller barely recalls the character of Daphne. She never gets the voice right; doesn't even try to play anyone except herself and in this respect is the worst casting choice of the crew.The music is the other misfire. The instantly recognizable incidental music from the TV show is missing here. The music used, rotten pop dreck which will date itself almost instantly and fail at being camp really detracts from the movie. While it is too much to hope for that the dreadful Prinze and Geller will be recast for the sequel, one hopes that a musical director with better taste will be in charge of the soundtrack next time.The movie is fun though, and Lillard's Shaggy in particular makes it worthwhile to fans of the show. "},{"Title":"Crude, Campy, & Funny","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I sat down to watch this movie, I wasn't sure what to expect.  I had heard so many people say it sucks, and so many others say it was a riot. After reviews like that and having seen every episode of Scooby up until the point that Scrappy made his presence known, I had to see it for myself. While there are plenty of slow spots, there are some outright funny parts. The flatulence contest, while very crude, definitely appealed to my less mature side.  I was just about rolling on the floor howling.  And what can you say when smoke is rolling out of The Mystery Machine and Matt Lillard as Shaggy (as one reviewer perfectly put it, it is as if he was genetically created to play this part) while grilling some bread shouts Talk about toasted!  One would have to be very dimwitted to have missed this reference and not laughed (excepting the prude of the bunch).  I really think Sarah Michelle should have been given large, flowing, red hair like the cartoon Daphne, and FP Jr. just doesn't have the build to quite pull off Freddie completely.  Linda Cardellini as Velma, however, if perfectly cast and plays the part perfectly (not to mention she's far prettier than SMG).  This movie combines plenty of tongue-in-cheek humor amongst a plethora of sight gags that makes it work overall, despite the shortcomings in casting.  The CG Scooby I think works quite well as making the Great Dane look real might have made it just a little too difficult to suspend disbelief long enough to enjoy the movie at all.  James Gunn, screenwriter and co-writer of the original story and a good SF writer, does an adequate job at this, though I think parts of his humor fall just a bit flat.  All-in-All, on the pywrit scale of 1-10, this one gets a 7.  Not perfect, but ultimately watchable and enjoyable with plenty of good, gut-busting laughs. And an oh yeah.  It's great to see that little Scrappy get his comeuppance. "},{"Title":"o my god","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  i dont know why every channel is trying to bring back a great show and a mistake they made 30 years ago, the original scooby doo show was fine by itself, it didnt need a movie, which by the way i thought was awful, they have a new scooby doo on channels now and it just makes me mad because i love scooby doo, i have been watching the re runs since i was 5 years old, i love the show and if they chose to take the show off the air 30 years ago, thats their fault and they need to stop trying to bring it back "},{"Title":"I was surprisingly impressed.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this movie out of mere curiosity... and was, frankly, expecting it to be pretty lame.  I was surprised to find myself enjoying it.First and foremost.. Mathew Lilliard.  There could not have been a better choice for Shaggy.  He alone sent me reeling with nostalgia.  Velma, Fred, Daphne... all were fairly well cast, though personally I think at the least Daphne and Fred could have been cast with better likenesses of their cartoon predecessors.As a stand alone movie it probably wouldn't fare very well... except perhaps for kids.  My nephew seems to love it.  But for those of us that don't mind the occasional trip down memory lane, its not bad at all.My only real complaint about the film is the Scooby Doo character himself. Possibly as a result of having an animation star side by side with real actors, the character seems dimished... and I could almost say that Scooby seemed to have more character substance in the cartoons. "},{"Title":"Driving around in a van and solving mysteries... ***1/2 stars (out of five)","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  First off, I would like to begin this by saying I watched and somewhat enjoyed the cheesy 70's cartoon this film is based on.  Scooby-Doo itself is not a bad film, but not a great one either.  I personally do not think this film will appeal to anyone who never watched the cartoon.  That is why I think Roger Ebert had such a difficult time reviewing Scooby-Doo.  That is also why I think people who hated the movie most likely never watched the cartoon.  I admit that I thought Scooby-Doo would not amount to much either, but if you sit down and actually watch it, fun will be had. I think that what people do not understand about Scooby-Doo, is that it is intentionally campy.  Part of the fun of watching the cartoon was being able to accept the camp humor and cheesy plot lines.  The acting in the movie is terrible as well, but it was done that way because that is what most films and cartoons that were popular at that time were like.  What Scooby-Doo is trying to do is to recapture that 70's camp.  Speaking of the camp, the special effects in the movie are so laughably bad, that you can not help but praise them.  The films humor consists mostly of burping/farting jokes and other slapstick.  As I already mentioned, the acting isn't very good either.  In fact, most of the actors seem seriously miscast, with the exception of Matthew Lillard, who plays Shaggy.  Not only does he look the part, but he sounds and acts like him too.  The same goes to Linda Cardellini, who plays Velma.  Now I was born in 1985, which was nearly a decade after the cartoon was in its prime.  I can't say that when I was younger, that I fully understood everything about this cartoon.  I'm 17 now, and I have heard a lot about the cartoon that may change anyone's viewing of it, even my own.  The characters are a lot different in the movie than they were in the cartoon.  But I guess that was part of being able to successfully bring the characters to the big screen.  Fred is no longer the all-out jock he once was, Daphne seems a lot dumber and less of a snob, Velma actually displays emotions, but Shaggy and Scooby are just the same.To clear some things up, Shaggy and Scooby are potheads.  Why do you think they are so hungry all the time?  Also why do you think Shaggy said that he likes the name Mary Jane so much?  The report of one particular deleted scene with Velma getting drunk and singing a love song to Daphne should also give a hint to her sexual orientation.  Lastly, Fred and Daphne are dating.  (This fact is helped along by the news that Freddie Prinze Jr. and Sarah Michelle Gellar are married in real life.)P.S. You also won't want to miss the performance by Sugar Ray or miss the countless OutKast beats playing in the background either. "},{"Title":"I was surprisingly impressed.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I rented this movie out of mere curiosity... and was, frankly, expecting it to be pretty lame.  I was surprised to find myself enjoying it.First and foremost.. Mathew Lilliard.  There could not have been a better choice for Shaggy.  He alone sent me reeling with nostalgia.  Velma, Fred, Daphne... all were fairly well cast, though personally I think at the least Daphne and Fred could have been cast with better likenesses of their cartoon predecessors.As a stand alone movie it probably wouldn't fare very well... except perhaps for kids.  My nephew seems to love it.  But for those of us that don't mind the occasional trip down memory lane, its not bad at all.My only real complaint about the film is the Scooby Doo character himself. Possibly as a result of having an animation star side by side with real actors, the character seems dimished... and I could almost say that Scooby seemed to have more character substance in the cartoons. "},{"Title":"What film were you trying to be?","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The problem with this film is that it was trying to be a children's film and an adult pastiche at the same time. The humor from the original cartoon was how the counter culture and unconsciously seeped into what is supposed to be a children's cartoon. Although seemingly innocent, many of the cartoons funniest moments come when a seemingly innocent remark has a double meaning that may or may not have been intended by the original creators. This movie does not have that whatsoever, yet the set up for those kind of jokes are THERE, as if they were written and filmed, yet cut in the editing process to adhere to a supposedly kid-friendly audience. In all, this movie blew. Freddie Prinze Jr. can't act his way out of a paper bag. The only reason to watch this film- Mathew Lillard as Shaggy. That's It. "},{"Title":"I had a good time","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Yep, That's right, I actually dug this one.  Here is another T.V. to bigscreen attempt and unlike many others, I felt that Scooby was done right.  While many have been whining about how stupid it is, I still went ahead and got the dvd and I wasn't surprised at all when I came out loving it.  What more could you want from a Scooby Doo movie? EVERYTHING that made the series so wonderful is here and they even added a few new elements.As far as the acting, everyone here pulled it off.  I'm not a fan of Freddie Prinze Jr., but he did a great job as the boring and terminally lame Fred. Sarah Michelle Geller managed to do a respectable job with Daphne, but Linda Cardellini put her to shame as Velma.  I have a feeling that we're going to see a lot more of this gal.  She's good.The one actor who really stood out (and yes, I know I'm not the first person to address this) was Matthew Lillard as Shaggy.  This guy must OWN every Scooby Doo episode ever done because he IS Shaggy.  His performance is so drop-dead perfect, it's almost scary in itself.  To me, this was his best performance since SLC Punk (loved that one).  It's hard to believe that this is the same guy.Now, onto my favorite part of the film Scooby himself. The CG Scooby rocks. There would have been a real problem had the film-makers used a real dog, so everyone needs to quite bitching about the way Scooby looked here.  His dialogue (Ramburgers!?) is hilarious and his facial expressions are adorable.  He blends in with the live actors perfectly and I'm sure I had a big smile on my face everytime he was on screen.My only real complaints about the movie are minor.  First off, I thought the fart contest was a little too juvenile for my tastes (they never did that in the show!), but I'm sure that the younger audiences enjoyed it.  My second complaint is almost unforgivable...almost.  I guess you just have to understand my hatred for this band, but having Sugar Ray make a cameo appearrance wasn't just a STUPID idea, it's downright disgraceful to have such a worthless band tarnish such an otherwise great movie.  I know that this movie was geared for a younger audience but PLEASE, (to the film-makers) don't encourage such bad taste.With my biased opinion aside, I can honestly say that this 22 year old guy had a great time with Scooby Doo and is anxiously awaiting the sequel (despite catching mucho hell from my girlfriend).  If you love the show, you'll love the movie. "},{"Title":"what did you expect?","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  As a long time huge fan of most of the Scooby-Doo serieses (except for the ones that had Scrappy in them), I loved this movie.  I laughed so hard through the whole thing that I almost didn't even notice the woman sitting behind me get a call on her cell phone.  Most of the people that I know who knocked this movie weren't fans of the show.  I said to them the same thing that I said to people who walked out of South Park Bigger, Better, Uncut - What did you expect?! I wasn't disappointed by this movie at all.  Even the less than perfect Scooby was acceptable.  Dogs and Cats had the best talking animals in it that I've seen, but this may have been to realistic for a movie based on this particular cartoon.  I mean, how many voices did Casey Kasem do for that show anyway? To keep this short, if you loved the campy-ness of the cartoons, you'll love this movie.  If you thought the cartoons were bad, I don't want to read how you thought this was a waste of time and money.  Honestly, what do you expect?    "}{"Title":"Those who hate it apparently need a new sense of humor...","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was shockingly good - I, a Scooby-Doo fan, thought it was going to be nothing but crude humor and revealing shots of Sarah's ass for 86 minutes.  Luckily, it was not.  It was a witty, funny movie with a plot they could have done away with.  The pokes and jabs and even kung-fu kicks at pop-culture were more than enough to keep me entertained.  Matthew, Linda and Rowan did fantastic jobs (how funny was Mondovarius?), and Sarah was a pretty cute and peppy Daphne.  I actually kind of like this version of her better.  Anyway, this movie deserves a good rent (on DVD, if possible) for any Scooby-Doo fan.  If you hate it, get your sense of humor a tune-up, because it's in desperate need "},{"Title":"Opinion of a non-Scoobyist","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw the cartoon series when I was a child but I didn't remember anything of it. Then I went to see the new real life movie (with the dog still animated) with two friends who had similar Scooby experiences (that is practically none). We could figure out how the series works (e. g. that Daphne always gets caught and that Velma is the smart one aso.), and interestingly, we could more easily laugh about the inside jokes than about actual gags like Shaggy and Scooby farting and belching around.The set decoration is very colourful, almost gaudy but I guess this has to be so to make the animated dog appear relatively realistic.Rowan Atkinson is wonderful &#150; not only by his British accent he stands out from the rest of the cast, who (this has to be admitted) seem to be well chosen concerning their optical appearance. By the way, the three of us agreed that &#150; unless he wasn't necessary for the final development of the story &#150; the most annoying character in the movie would be that stupid dog (sorry, fans)! They should have taken Melvin Doo instead!  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, ironic, and stupid!  I like.","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I rented it because I wanted to watch something colourful, pointless and stupid.  Scooby-Doo is all those things, for sure...but it's also highly entertaining and funny, which was a complete surprise.It seems to be a Hollywood trend to take the TV Shows and cartoons we watched as children and remake them in an ironic way.  Scooby-Doo is no exception, where everything we suspected about the characters when we watched the cartoon -- Fred being vain, Daphne being an airhead, Velma being repressed and badly in need of therapy, Scrappy being an obnoxious egotist, and Shaggy eating so much because he had some sort of drug issues -- is brought to the front.  The movie is not so much about the mystery the gang is solving, it's about making fun of the things that weren't supposed to be funny in the cartoon.  And while some of those things are easy targets (It would have worked if it wasn't for...), the script had me laughing over and over again at it's more-ironic-than-thou cleverness.A lot of credit goes to Matthew Lillard and Linda Cardellini.  Lillard as Shaggy is such a perfect carbon copy that I almost felt like punching him. And Cardellini has Velma down pat, right down to that self-satisfied sideways glance when she's exposing a mystery.  Freddy Prinze and Sarah Michelle Geller were passable, and it was only the computer animated Scooby that really annoyed me he was just too high-tech, I felt.In my opinion the movie succeeded most when it was subtle (like the bartender telling Velma that he likes her sweater, and her giggling about Scrappy's glandular problem).  Was it obvious I thought Velma kicked butt? She was the only one I liked in the cartoon and I'm thrilled that she was so perfectly reproduced.The bonus materials are great.  I much prefer the animated opening that they cut out, and Velma's Invasion Of The Body Snatchers scream was hilarious, as was her cabaret number.So, the movie is funny.  Sometimes it's insufferably juvenile and stupid, and sometimes it will strike the adult viewer as a bit too childish, but the movie does what it set out to do it entertains you, and it pokes clever fun at infamous cultural icons.  Expect nothing more than that and you'll have a good time with it. "},{"Title":"MUCH funnier than I thought it would be!","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Although I grew up in the 1980s (born in October 1982--I'm almost 20) and my generation loved the Scooby Doo cartoons of te 1960s and 70s, I was never completely into them, it was more of my brother's bag than mine.  But this movie broke all my misconceptions of America's favorite animated canine. What actually was just an attempt for me to stare at the gorgeous Freddie Prinze Jr. turned out to be a worthwhile watch.When mysterious happenings begin occuring at Scary Island, its up to the defunct Mystery Inc. to solve the case.After Fred (Freddie Prinze Jr.), Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Shaggy (Matthew Lilard) and Velma (Linda Cardelini) go their own ways, and wind up reuniting in the airport, the team decides to go together to solve the case, which involves zombie-like teenagers at the unusual resort of Scary Island. What is actually happening is that the teen's souls are being removed from their bodies and aliens are taking control of them, using the bodies to withstand sunlight.  Shaggy and Scooby must save the day when Fred, Velma, and Daphne have their soles stolen. It's not gonna be easy, but Mystery Inc. can do anything.I assumed this would be as annoying and trippy as the original cartoon, but it was actually hysterical.  I always thought of myself as kinda like Daphne, but I realized how stupid she really was. Now, I kind of relate to Velma, whose smart but cool at the same time.  The actors were SO good in their parts, and I loved Freddie Prinze Jr. as Fred.  He was so gorgeous!!!!!!!  Sarah Michelle Gellar really played Daphne like an airhead, Matthew Lillard was TOO GOOD as Shaggy (Even sounded like him!!!), and Linda Cardelini resembled Velma, even though I hardly know who she is.My absolute favorite parts were the part in the airport, the flashback scene where Scrappy Doo pees on Daphne, and the part where the gang keeps accidentally switching bodies over the cool artifact.  Shaggy kept checking out Velma's body.  Yikes.  LOL!!!I highly recommend giving this movie a chance, because it is really funny. A bit silly at times, but still very funny.  The actors are great, and the ending is very funny.So go ahead, pile your hands up, raise em high in the air, and scream Woo-hoo!  Definitely see this, you will not regret it!!! "},{"Title":"I will see it again at the big screen","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not a big crazy fan of the original cartoon series from the sixties. I'd love to see some episodes again, but I've already caught some bits on the TV recently, and I know It won't be as wonderful as it was when I was a kid. And I also know that I don't mind the changes they did on the characters for this movie. You are free to dislike the updating the way they did it, but I went to see it quite worried and it turned out to be great fun, and somewhat true to the spirit of the original. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought.","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie would suck, but it actually didn't. The characters and animation were good, the plot wasn't half bad and the entertaining value was good.Overall good entertainment. Worth a look. "},{"Title":"Love that dog! Cracks me up every time.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"        Okay, so it's not a great movie or anything but the special effects are great and if you've seen the cartoon before you should be glad it was represented on film so well. Like Spiderman or X-men the Scooby Doo movie stays true to it's orignal form and does not fail to impress any fan who liked the original show. For that I give it a thumbs up. That dog is so goofy and funny and can bring joy and happiness to anyones heart that it's no wonder that he is a sort of cultural icon. Scooby Doo, God bless him. "},{"Title":"Roo rit ra-gen (Doo it again)","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I loved the cartoon when I was a child of 80's. My brother and I REALLY hated Scrappy. We watched a lot of Scooby-Doo cartoons. We got excited when the movie came. In the Land of a Million Drums was the coolest song in the movie. Matthew Lilard as Shaggy walks like the cartoon version. Scooby looks life-like. I cheered when Scrappy was the villain. Because he was annoying as hell. My friends were 80's children, so they hated Scrappy. Other Hanna Barbera cartoons were referenced. Like HONG KONG PHOOEY, THE SMURFS, and those loveable superheroines THE POWERPUFF GIRLS. Best line Hey. I'm even cute as a Powerpuff Girl! That quote made me laugh so hard. On April 2001, was shooting day, so I know that the story will take place on Spring Break. It has everything it needs in a Scooby-Doo episode. My spirits were flying high when there was a rock version of Scooby-Doo (unlike the rock version of SPIDER-MAN by Aerosmith). Shaggy wrote a song called Shaggy Where are you? This is what I called the best movie of the summer. But PEOPLE MAGAZINE said, Scooby-Don't One friend of mine said, It will flop. Because it is based on a cartoon. True. That's what others say. But I say it rocks! "},{"Title":"Funny Movie!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had a lot of funny parts although i think it dealt with marijuana and cleavage to much.  It is a funny movie for teenagers but i think it has no morals.  It is mere entertainment and not necessary to go and see.  My favorite character in the movie was the animated ScoobyDoo.  Although he did upstage the other characters a lot he is a very funny dog! "},{"Title":"Doggoned Stupid but Funny Dog","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  (Sing along to the `Scooby-Doo' cartoon theme song)To Scooby Scooby Scooby Doo, I do think it was not for you to make a live action film about you. However, I did notice that it did bring a buck or two. I do think that you were cute and your friend shaggy was fun too. But Scooby Scooby-Doo, who wrote this film for you? Because the story stunk and smelled worse than your doo-doo. I would definitely yell `boo' to your co-stars too. Mr. Prinze and Ms. Gellar were no good. I do still like you Scooby-Doo, but please don't let them make a `Scooby-Doo 2'. *** Average  "}{"Title":"A must see","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It was defently a good movie, it had adentcer, fights, and friendship, and an unexpected ending, for me atleast. Its really good for teens more than younger kids. With everyones favorite dog, and a lot of laughs, this is defently a must see! for any scooby doo fan.  "},{"Title":"What a Surprise","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I reluctantly went to see this film with my boyfriend the other night. I am not a Scooby Doo fan at all, but decided it was better than watching them mass slaughter dragons in Reign of Fire. What a surprise this movie was...granted there were times when you could actually feel you brain sizzling from lack of intelligence, there was a scooby doo plot, a scooby doo humor, and a scooby doo ending. The writers did a better job than I expected to not loose the feeling the old Scooby Doo series left you with. And the ending was a nice breath of fresh air, no cheesy bad guys here. The acting job by all but Matthew Lillard could have used a bit of improvement. I say everyone but Matthew Lillard since he even had the cracking voice of Shaggy down pat. The only down side to this movie was the choppy graphics used in the animation of Scooby himself. You would think for having his name in the title they would have added a few more cuts into their graphics so as not to give the viewers such a headache. Must have been the producers from Blaire Witch. All in all, I would suggest this movie to anyone who was a Scooby Doo fan and would like to kill an evening at home...and a few brain cells along with it. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Colorful, funny live action adaption of the cartoon finds the mystery gang getting back together after going their own seperate ways to help solve a mystery involving a tropical paradise and it's weird owner (Rowan Atkinson). In it's brief 87 minutes of running time, this film  manages to be full of wonderful life messages for younger kids, provide just enough humor for adults, be scary and spooky, feature terrific effects, and give enough time for every cast member to shine. Features a few good guest appearances.Rated PG; Comic Violence. "},{"Title":"Still cute, even though it could use less Hollywood influence","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This was, in some ways, cuter and funnier than I expected.The best part was watching Scooby as a CGI character and his interactions with Shaggy.The parts which were best in this movie were the homage to the original Scooby Doo cartoons.  The worst elements were those that obviously smelled of Hollywood.  I found myself wishing for Scooby and Shaggy to be alone more.  I would have liked to have seen more of the Scooby / Shaggy antics where they did things like fool monsters with hopelessly transparent costumes and cause these monster much grief!  While not everyone goes for this; keep in mind, THAT is what makes Scooby-Doo cartoons what they are.The movie could have done without trying to make Velma sexy (which she WAS in this movie; not in keeping with the cartoon).  Obvious shameless Hollywood.  The fight scene was an uneccesary Hollywood-ism.  Cute, yes; but also trite.  Just how many movies will spoof Matrix and Crouching Tiger, anyway?  Last of all I felt let down when they added romantic interests amoung the kids.  Completely unecessary.All in all, it's fun for alduts to recall their past and for kids to enjoy Scooby.  It's not perfect; but it's still cute.  "},{"Title":"Scooby Snacks All Around","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Having grown up with Scooby~Doo, I loved this movie! Matthew Lillard as Shaggy was exactly as I remember Shaggy from my childhood, and the f/x department did a really good job on the CGI Scooby. My only complaints are the belching contest between Shaggy and Scooby... and the fact that Danger~Prone Daphne acts just like a best friend I've had problems with in the past.I would have to say the absolute best part of the movie was that Mystery, Inc actually ran into some real monsters as opposed to the traditional kook in a Halloween costume they're used to. This is reason enough to go see the movie! Now... if What's New, Scooby-Doo? can hold up as well. "},{"Title":"Ronan Atkinson at last revealed us his real voice.","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A great comedy, agood script, but not such a good movie. I have seen it, I liked it, but yet it was not so brilliant. The character, Scooby was a great one and Ronan Atkinson at last revealed us his real voice. Mystery Inc. split up, and then regrouped. I have seen a couple of times the cartoons and I may say that the movie wasn't as good as the cartoons. I casted a VOTE 7/10 FOR THE FILM, AND i MAY SAY THAT IT WASN'T THAT BAD. "},{"Title":"Scooby-dooby-doo where are you? Oh in this quite weak movie I see.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't expect much going to see this movie. I went purely to see if it deserved the savaging it received. Mostly it did, although it wasn't quite as awful as I was led to believe..For some reason this movie has the Mystery Inc. crew splitting up in the beginning. This isn't really like the cartoon at all. it's a cheap device to allow the characters to reunite at some point and discover each other's worth. As character development goes it's a very forced concept and is one of the movie's big flaws. The split-up gang are trying to solve a mystery. but you could have guessed that. The actual mystery isn't really quite in the flavour of the show, seeing as it's a bit too scary. It's saved a bit by the identity of the villain, which I found amusing (for it's pastiche value).Acting? Okay someone explain how Freddie Prinze Jr. has a career? He's Fred in this and he makes a cardboard cartoon character seem like Oscar Wilde. He's a dreadful actor with zero talent who does not even look that good. His version of Fred doesn't resemble the intelligent jock type I knew from the cartoons. He's almost goofy. Is this the script mildy parodying the original, as it does in places? Or is Prinze just bad? You decide. Velma is played with the irritating `pretty girl plained down' approach. She's purposely monotone and awkward, as shown by Linda Cardellini's performace. but it's just grating. Go away please. Sarah Michelle-Geller tries but is let down a script, which sees her character, Daphne, be pretty and dumb. There's not meant to be depth, I admit, but her performance is still under whelming.. Scooby Doo himself is poorly animated. His integration with real life scenes is grand but he's too cartoonish. Yes, the film has a cartoonish feel but not to the level that Scooby is drawn at. Still the mannerisms are generally good (particularly when he's in cowardly mode) and the voice acting is quite decent. The real revelation here is Matthew Lillard. He is in fact the saving grace of the movie. His performance of Shaggy is perfect. He captures all the mannerisms and the voice amazingly well. Just as Ian McKellen is now, and forever, the epitome of Gandalf, Lillard has become Shaggy for me. His obvious talent is nearly too good for this movie, but he really helps recreate the sense of the cartoon when he's on screen with Scooby - and their partnership is far better than the rest of the Mystery Inc. crew.The humour in the movie is. hard to place. Sometimes it's deliberately puerile - oh a farting contest. How un-amusing. Other times its deliberately making the movie a pastiche - check out the drug references regarding Shaggy and, of course, the mocking of one of the show's regulars. It's a bit of an unsettling mix, as if the movie isn't quite sure what it wants to be. And other times the jokes are just plain awful..The slightly cartoon look to the movie - bright colours and so forth - is generally grand, and helps give a feel to the movie. The somewhat weak editing creates a bit of a rambling structure to the movie and certain characters - such as the voodoo guy - seem pointless additions (and not what they are intended to be). The musical style used is a bit too variable - rap, pop, hard rock. it fails to have a distinct style but the movie has many a bigger flaw.`Scooby Doo' isn't absolutely dreadful although it's certainly not good either. It can't quite decide if it's a homage or a parody and fails to convincingly portray most of the gang. The humour can be weak and the storyline not all that strong. In fact if it weren't for Lillard the movie would be a wreck. Lillard really makes Shaggy come alive, and brightens up all his scenes with the potential the series could have if it was given much more of a focus. Wait for the TV showing and see what you think - by then the sequel should be out and the jury finally in on how bad (or good) this movie is. 3/10. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, I admit that I am a Scooby-Doo fan. I really wasn't expecting much from this live action movie rendition of Scooby Doo, but ended up being pleasantly surprised with it. The plot is about on par with your average Scooby episode, but that's part of the charm of it. The characters were all pretty much true to form, with my main problem being the ugly Scooby they had. He just didn't look anything like the Scooby we all know and love. Sure, some of the jokes were a little crude, but it can be overlooked if you remember the show for what it was. Basically, if you're a Scooby fan, you'll probably enjoy it. If not, well, then you probably won't. 7/10 "},{"Title":"It wasn't bad","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"       Internal strife has torn Mystery, Inc. apart.  Each member wishes to claim the credit for solving the crimes and not work together as a team.  Only Shaggy and Scooby try to get them together to no avail.  Time passes and the group reunites on a plane bound to a mysterious island.  Each has received a written invitation requesting their assistance.  Upon reaching the island they discover that something is brainwashing the teenagers who frequent the paradise there and each sets out to solve the crime first.  It's only through much misadventure do they realize that together they can't be defeated.      Okay yes it does sound like something that is pretty ridiculous but, hey, it's based off a saturday morning cartoon and it works pretty well.  Mathew Lillard steals the movie with his interpretation of Shaggy and some of the reported adult comedy has been dropped to do a safe family movie.  My only real complaint is the obviously animated version of Scooby.  I would think with the technology availabled today they could have made a Scooby to look much more realistic. **1/2 "},{"Title":"Scooby Don't make a sequel, please.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Shockingly bad. I mean, I knew it was going to be poor, but this bad? Dragged along by my seven year old daughter, who is entranced by thirty year old re-runs on Cartoon Network (and they haven't aged well, speaking as someone who used to rush home from school to watch it), I didn't expect the cynical, set-piece laden exercise in making money which was served up. The good bits any time Scooby (and therefore Shaggy, who Matthew Lilliard gets to a 'T') is on screen (and it isn't as much as you'd think it would be, couldn't they afford the computer time?). The bad bits the rest, boy does it draaaaaaaaagggggg. The plot is weak, isn't explained very well and is thus confusing, but never mind because here comes another set piece that has absolutely nothing to do with advancing the plot. Why does Velma change from dowdy and homely into sex vamp, and back again? Why is Sarah Michelle Geller completely unbelievable as Daphne - she's a fine actress, but she sure does need to get away from playing Buffy clones? Why did I want to punch Freddy Prinze Jr. every time he appeared? A cynical lazy Hollywood pic, lowest common denominator stuff, recycling ideas that weren't really that good in the first place and should have been left well alone. Already setting up the sequel at the end as well. Please, don't do it.Within an hour of the film ending, my daughter was struggling to remember ANYTHING she liked about the film, bar -surprise- the fart scene. She was more entranced by the fast food she'd had afterwards.  "}{"Title":"Nostalgic Romp.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is an excellent nostalgic romp of a film. It captures the feel of the cartoon version with just a few differences. (e.g. The initial splitting up of the gang - such disagreements never surfaced in the film). The storyline isn't too bad either although it has an actual supernatural foundation rather than Mr Smith in a mask.From a purely nostalgic point of view I was very sorry to see the briefish appearance of Scrappy Doo towards the end. I think that he spoilt the cartoon version. Part of Scoobys charm is his ill formed English. If a dog could talk that is how it should be. However, Scrappy is too articulate and ruins the show. keep scrappy out. "},{"Title":"Scooby Doo","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I loved the movie, Scooby Doo. The casting was a bit off though I might add. Freddie Prinze Jr. was not the best person to play the part of Fred, and Fred, in the cartoon, always helped solving the mystery and was not so self-centered. Sarah Michelle Gellar was not the best actress to play Daphney either. In the cartoon, Daphney had light skin and bright red hair. S.M.G. has darker skin and thin, red hair. Linda Cardellini nailed her role as Velma perfectly I think. The only problem with her is that she is way too hot to play a nerd. She is hotter than Daphney and that is not right. Matthew Lillard was perfect for the role of Shaggy. It is amazing how perfectly he played the role of Shaggy. I was shocked.  "},{"Title":"Scooby Doobie Doo some more movies!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Hey, man, a fun little movie makes a big hit.  I loved it!  I really hope for some sequels.This was always one of my favorite Hanna-Barbera cartoons ever made, and I feel that, like the Flintstones movie, this really captured the spirit and essence of the cartoon. I'm still a little unsure about Freddie Prinze Jr as Fred, but he took it seriously and pulled it off. AND Shaggy couldn't have been more perfect.So far, Hanna Barbera cartoon adaptions have been good, so let's go for a live action Johnny Quest.  Just avoid Speed Buggy and Space Ghost. "},{"Title":"Sarah Michelle Gellar is the weakest link","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  the casting here is very odd,on the one hand you have Matthew Lillard - who was *born* to play the live-action Shaggy, he is absolutely stunning in the role, and could almost hold up the film on his ownon the other hand you have Sarah Michelle Gellar - who was born to play Buffy, and indeed she does exactly that in this movie. I couldn't associate her with Daphne at all, and I kept having to do double takes.Having said that, the movie is a great laugh, and I'm ashamed to have put off watching it for so long. it's an excellent up-to-date live-action version of the show. *Don't* go expecting a remastered SD cartoon episode (who would sit for 2 hours through one of those, anyway?), and you'll enjoy the mix of slapstick and adult humour.Go see it! "},{"Title":"Good cast","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie would be super. I mean, it has Sarah Michelle Gellar and Freddie Prinze Jr - how could it not be good? Well, let's just say it wasn't as good as I thought it would be. The acting was fine - there was no problem with that. But the storyline was a little weird. I dunno if it's just my taste. My 8 year old brother really liked it so I reckon it's something to do with me. Scooby was cool, but this movie was a little too... strange, I guess. But I reckon it was good, just not up to my expectations. "},{"Title":"A hit film for Scooby fans!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  After two Flintstones films, Inspector Gadget and the Adventures Of Rocky And Bullwinkle, I guess the critics couldn't wait to get their knives sharpened for this latest cartoon to live action adaptation. Well, whatever they thought, I loved this movie, and so far have seen it twice.Just like Shrek and the Toy Story movies, this film is targeted at different age groups and types of audiences. There's all the stuff for the under tens (my mental age) and there's vintage Scooby scenes for the original fans (I was in my mid-teens when Scooby first appeared on UK screens and I love cartoons). Then there's material clearly aimed at movie fans, like there's a line from Shaggy (Matthew Lillard) which spoofs the actor's lines from Scream. But if anyone is expecting a hard-hitting political or social drama, they are going to be really disappointed.That said though, within it's own world, it all works very well. It has comedy (subtle and silly), it has slapstick and it has drama. There are also some genuine moments of pathos which are supplied by Matthew Lillard as Shaggy and a CGI Scooby. With the exception of Lillard's brilliant and Oscar worthy performance as Shaggy, most of the cast are out-acted by the computer generated dog. Linda Cardellini is superb as clever but nerdy Velma and for a couple of scenes has a sexy-make-over look. So what we have is an entertaining roller-coaster of a movie (for the most part) with some neat plot twists that is suitable for everyone, except witless snobs.After I watched this the first time, I immediately thought Spider-Man was a pile of dog poo, ha ha.VERDICT Four and a half out of five. Very Good. "},{"Title":"Don't see it.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  All the reviews said this film was crap. Reviewers have been wrong  before, I thought. So, with the hope of a wallow in childhood nostalgia, I went to see the film. Wrong move. The critics were right. Don't see it. Not unless your under 10 years of age.  "},{"Title":"Velma's sweater","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I knew that I was watching a family film when early on Velma was dangling upside down in a skirt, but a skirt that created no embarrassment.  The skirt ignored gravity.  The director did have at least one relapse when late in the film Velma's sweater suddenly became v-necked.  By the climax of the film the sweater had become sexless again.  The sweater is definitely more interesting than the disappointing Martha, a casting mistake.  Daphne is a dull character, like Fred.  By trying to give her more depth the film is inferior compared to the cartoon.  The interaction between Shaggy and Scooby is the key relationship, Velma has the brains and Daphne and Fred make up the numbers.  Distorting this chemistry means that the film loses out. Otherwise I was impressed, the computer graphics were good.  I have one proviso.  My five-year old daughter while watching the film spent all her time sitting on my lap.  So a little bit too scary for five-year old's. "},{"Title":"If you expect it to be a silly fun movie you won't be disappointed","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I too should give a scooby fan warning. I went into the cinema expecting a lot worse and was very pleasantly surprised. It stays close enough to the scooby doo vibe to be convincing and doesn't take itself seriously. The characters are treated with warmth and nothing to much is done to the story line. There are certain aspects that you will only get if you are at least a bit of a fan, but I went to see it with two friends that weren't and they had a good time. If you hate scooby doo though definitely do not go and see it ( i guess that's pretty obvious). Basically it was great fun. "},{"Title":"What is better, TV or Movie?","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw the first preview of Scooby Doo on 27 November 2001 (This was the time Harry Potter came out in Australia) I was unhappy, I went to see it, expecting a bad movie and a Harry Potter trailer, what did I get? An Excellent film.Scooby Doo is a really great film, It has good humor, excellent casting, excellent music and above all, an excellent CG great dane who is a bit annoying by adding an 'r' to every wordScooby Doo is an excellent example of film, its great for young kids and older people will like it as well, The main reason I liked it because it was shot in Australia, the only reason I didn't like it because I felt it was too-shortOverall, this has been an excellent film to watch, well worth your money! "}{"Title":"Good at reviving the essence of the TV Series.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  There seems to be a genre out there that's been stirring the past several years, and we are beginning to see more and more of it.  It is one that has decided to take a classic TV-series (animated or otherwise) and resurrect it into a modern motion picture.  All-in-all this isn't a horribly bad concept, if the conversion is done to preserve the style and format of the original, or to take it and improve on it where needed.  `Scooby Doo' is one such creation.  There is plenty that is flawed with this movie&#133; but let's remember, it's based on a late 60s (and early 70s) animated series aimed at children.  The series was plagued with it's own predictability and seemingly stenciled format that mirrored itself in every episode.  Of course, the film is no different.  But that's one of the things that I like about it.  In fact, there seems to be some intent at pointing out this predictability in the movie itself.As a conversion, they producers and writers did a very good job lifting from the animated series, the format, and structure of the original.  Even exemplifying the character attitudes and pre-conceived notions we have of them.  Without speaking to them, I believe this is what they had in mind, and if so, they did an excellent job.  The costumes were well done, some of the action is cartoon-ish (in a good way), and the attitudes that would have been stirring in the characters the past 30-some years come to life here.I do have to comment as well that Matthew Lillard is absolutely FLAWLESS as Shaggy.  In fact, he does so well, there are times you swear that the voice you are hearing is the original Casey Kasem from the original series (for those that remember it anyway).As I mentioned, there is plenty that is flawed with this movie (hence the 2-star rating) but it's nothing to get all worked up over.  And I won't get in to it in this review. If you care to find out, simply read many of the other reviews out there. I especially didn't like how the movie ended, but I'll admit at least that it was something that I wasn't expecting.  Lest we forget that `Scooby Doo' is a vessel for entertaining children, even those who have never seen the series&#133;  And from what I understand, it does a fine job of doing that.   There definitely is a kid-style humour throughout.If you're an adult, and you enjoyed the series when you were younger, this movie may also be for you.  As I've mentioned, it's a direct conversion of an animated series, to the live-action&#133; and a good conversion preserving what you might expect from a `Scooby Doo' episode.  There are a few jokes for the adults in the crowd too, including some VERY subtle humour regarding Shaggy's less-than-obvious recreational pastimes (you can about guess).I wouldn't recommend paying premium prices for this flick, but if you get to go with a movie-pass, or have kids to take to a movie&#133; this isn't a bad option.  "},{"Title":"They Doo It So Well!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I grew up on TV cartoons, and Scooby-Doo is a character I remember very well.  So when the movie version of the adventures of Mystery, Inc. finally came out, I was looking forward to it.  And I was very pleased with what resulted!  Scooby-Doo has a lot of laughs, and more than a little self-parody.  In fact, you will enjoy this movie that much more when you recognize the spoofy elements.  Like Daphne finally getting fed up with her whole damsel in distress routine.  I was surprised that they included Scrappy-Doo in the story!  And, not to give too much away, but I notice a lot of Scrappy haters around, and I think their feelings will be justified. The best performance belongs to Matthew Lillard, who nails the role of Shaggy perfectly.  And Linda Cardellini is no slouch either as Velma.  And so, to the meddling kids of Mystery, Inc., I say, Meddle on, kids! "},{"Title":"Surprise!  Surprise!  This movie doesn't suck!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was a reluctant viewer.  I waited and waited to see this movie,relegating it to the video first group of films that seem to litter thecinematic landscape with all to much frequency these days.  ThenI made a error in film going; I went to see Men in Black II whichwas so bloody awful I needed a cinematic break to cleanse thepalate.  And I had already seen Minority Report and Spiderman theday before so those two were out.  My last hope for bubble gunrenewal lay with Scooby, Shaggy, and rest of the gang.  I enteredthe theater with a resounding *gulp* to prepare myself for the trial Iwas about to endure.  And lo and behold!  Much to my ratherpleasant surprise, Scooby Doo was a helluva lot of fun.  Anamiable, well meaning, largely juvenile film, Scooby Doo retainsmuch of the grace that the original show engendered while addinga dose of what I like the call the Brady Bunch Movie syndrome. The Brady Bunch Movie was an exercise in self awareness, a filmthat knew it was based on an awkward and fatally corny show andchose to good naturedly poke fun at that very fact.  Scooby Doodoes the same thing.  And the actors are spot on.  Matthew Lillard,in particular, is fantastic as Shaggy, the stoner cum beatnik cumfood junkie.  And Sarah Michelle Gellar is alot of fun as theeminently stupid Daphne who gives use Buffy fans a funny bit ofBuffy action as well.  Go and see this movie and put your brain in neutral; your innerchild will appreciate it. "},{"Title":"A great movie for older kids and ok for the rest of us","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I think if you are a Scooby fan and if you have old children around 7-12 then you will enjoy this film. The film was more like the recent Scooby Doo Cartoon Movies that are out on Video and DVD (i.e. Zombie Island) instead of the older Cartoons that used to come out on Saturday Mornings.I'm a Scooby Doo fan and I went with my children so I had a blast. You won't like this movie if you are someone whose movie enjoyment hinges on how well the actors perform their role (though Shaggy was perfect). You also won't enjoy this movie unless you think a dog passing gas is funny.Luckily my children did and a great time was had by all!  "},{"Title":"kids will love scooby doo","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Matthew Lillard who plays shaggy was excellent, he is exactly like the cartoon character,  even sounds like him. Overall I was a little disappointed with Scooby Doo, I feel with its good cast it could have been a lot better, but I think the kids will love it, especially Scooby (the animated dog). "},{"Title":"HILARIOUS","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  if your not going to the movie to critique how great the acting was and where only expecting a few laughs then i think you will love this Movie! Mathew Lillard is HILARIOUS!!! it makes the whole movie worth while. I don't even like Sarah Michelle Geller but she did a great job in the movie! Go see it!! Relive childhood memories!!  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie the way they brought the characters to the screen was great.Matthew Lillard did excellent as Shaggy.Sara Michelle Gellar was great as Daphine.and so were Freddy Prince JR and Linda Cardellini as Fred and Velma. And they did a good job with Scooby Doo IT WAS GREAT! Can't wait till the sequal. "},{"Title":"Dude that's tight","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  man with out a doubt this movie was dope man, i mean i admit i got a lil disappointed with scrappy goin postal on everyone but besides that i was bustin up laughing. I think the best part was when Velma was angry at fred for only liking hot girls like daphne and fred was like, aaww comeon Velma, dorky girls like you turn me on too. I was like dude! that's exactly what i woulda said! well anyways the movie was great i mean you know it was kinda kiddie and stuff but funny nonetheless. Plus comeon you gota admit Sarah Michelle Gellar (Daphne) is soo hot and man Velma is like even hotter dude! the sequels gonna be dope. Dude Sarah Michelle is so hot =DBuffy's number one fan DMan "},{"Title":"30 years in the making,,,.. FOR WHAT!!!!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I loved Scooby Doo, used to watch it all the time when I was younger.. I remember having Scooby marathons on cartoon Network and watching every one.. I was glad to see Scott Innes was part of the film as scrappy, but why wasn't he Scooby? In this film they generalized the characters, it was as if the writer had never even watched the cartoons at all, and made characterizations (or stereo types)about them all, as a joke, much like they did for the Brady Bunch movies, only this movie wasn't funny.. The only characters that were perfect were Shaggy and Scooby.. Matthew Lillard did an excellent job!! Fred was like this stuck up a$$hole that thought he was too cool for anyone,, Daphne was pretty much the same, only she was stupid, and always got captured by the bad guys,, Velma was almost the same, only she was always mad that no one paid any attention to her and never gave her credit.. None of them liked each other, and never got along!! The story li ne was dum, it didn't make me laugh, it was about a old team that was brought together, and they all tried to out do each other.. I seem to think that they never in a million years would have broken up as a team in the cartoons!! But they were. So that right there was dum to me.. And the bad Guy!!! I can't get into that, cause I don't want to blow it, but that was just retarded!! It never would have happened in the cartoons!!I just figured a movie that was a 30 year old and running cartoon series and animated films, could have done much better!!! But it was an enjoyable film if you can get past all the un-flowing flaws.. I liked it, and I hope to see the next one get better!! "},{"Title":"Really Great!!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie and thought it was totally great!! Under my opinion, it was better than the cartoon. It is absolutely hilarious!! I recommend this movie to anyone who is looking for a really good movie!! A really great family movie, too. "}{"Title":"Zoinks...It's very funny for the hole family","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby-Doo the live-action motion picture is based on the Hanna- Barbera cartoon that stars Freddie Prinze,Jr. who also is the son of the late actor Freddie Prinze and also plays Freddie Jones and Sarah Michelle Gellar from TV's Buffy the Vampire Slayer plays Daphne, also starring Matthew Lillard as Norvile Shaggy Rogers, Linda Cardellini as Velma and Rowan Atkinson from UK's Mr. Bean and Rat Race as Emile. Also Neil Fanning plays the voice of Scooby-Doo and don't forget PUPPY POWER Scrappy Doo also Scooby's nephew voiced by Scott Innes. Also look for cameos by Pamela Anderson and the rock band Sugar Ray.The movie is about after 2 years when Mystery Inc. broke up and Shaggy and Scooby are still together they were assigned to the case in Spooky Island and at the airport they see Fred, Velma, and Daphne and also look for Scooby Doo in a drag. Plus at the plane Shaggy meets Mary Jane and the gang called Scooby Grandma. It's a great flim and you got to see it and also watch the Scooby Doo reruns on Ted Turner's Cartoon Network too.I give this motion picture 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"See it if you liked the cartoon.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I loved the cartoon as a kid (until Scrappy came on the scene) and have been looking forward to this film for a long time. I knew it was a film aimed at a younger audience, so I knew what to expect. The film made me laugh everytime Shaggy or Scoob said or did virtually anything. True its not the best film of all time, but fans of mystery inc. should find plenty of stuff to keep them amused all the way through. I'm sure the kids will love it too. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie for the kids. But old school fans may be disappointed.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie for the younger generation. I thought that they went a little overboard when Daphny was fighting like Buffy the vampire slayer, And the worst part was Fred. It in no way reflected the Fred from the cartoon. This scripting of Fred was doomed. But the movie had a decent story line, and had it's moment's. I just expected more. I probably would have had a better time if Daphny and Fred had been scripted better. "},{"Title":"shaggy rules","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  this film is aimed more at children , so at the age of 20 i think i am little old for it! if you have a sense of homour and/or if u can suspend your disbelief you may get some enjoyment out of this film.the film is a fair enough re-make of the cartoon but the spirit of the original is not remade on the screen, the friendship seems forced and poorly acted!  the deeper meaning of good versus evil and friendship survives is all very nice for a childrens film , it is also lumbered with it when trying to convert adults!gellar, prinze,cardellini and atkinson do well enough if there parts but dont really set the screen alight!  fred is too egotistical, velam too bitchy and daphne too stuck up!matthew lilard was born to play shaggy if any person was to play apart this was his! he is shaggy , he looks like him acts like him , talks like him and embodies the spirit of him! he provides most of the laughs in this film and steals it from it's more famous stars!scooby is well scooby , just costs a lot more to put him on screen! scooby and shaggy caused a slight case of nostalgia when appearing on screen together! which is a good signin the end the film is a average enough with shaggy and scooby stealing the show.  there is room for improvement and  hopefully for the sake of my childhood memories they will improve.6/10 "},{"Title":"Scooby-Crude","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Just a quick review... I was impressed with the CGI-Scooby, and really was blown away by Matthew Lilliard's Shaggy. That was this movie's core. That's all the movie should have been about, then it would've worked for me. I couldn't stand the rest of the gang, and was really surprised with the amount of crudeness and adult inside jokes. I'll admit that I cracked a rib during the flatsculent & belching contests. I'll even admit that the movie stayed pretty true to the cartoon; in plot, characters (somewhat anyway); simple enjoyment; and so on and so on. But, the movie in the long run wasn't really youth oriented as advertised nor was it all in good taste (Scrappy-Doo's a puppy who not only turned evil in a power hungry attempt to rid the world of the Mystery, Inc. team, but he also isn't potty trained and wizzes on Daphne while in her lap). Scooby really should've been made a movie older audiences would hate like a jolly two-headed Barney flick carrying the plague, just for the kids should've been the mindset. I don't hate the movie, nor do I agree with it. 2 1/2 stars; still a little undecided. "},{"Title":"Good try.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I  must say that I believe this film to be as good as the cartoon,which is mediocre. Lilliard is the star here, nailing the Shaggyperformance. Scooby is good, lifted right from the cartoon. I wouldhave liked to see something original here. All I got was a reworkedcartoon in live action. I was disappointed. "},{"Title":"It was good","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This was a good movie. There were times it got really funny. Matthew Lillard was by far the best. Like he was so awesome as Shaggy. Scooby was really funny. It was good, but it wasnt as good as I hoped it would be. But this is a movie I'd show my kids someday. The music was good and just all together good. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves Scooby-Doo or a good cartoon based movie. I really liked this movie. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I never really watched Scooby Doo the Cartoon, so I went to see the movie with no prior knowledge. I knew who Scooby Doo was, but that was it. Anyway after seeing Lilo and Stitch I really didn't find Scooby Doo very entertaining in comparison. The person next to me fell asleep, then woke up and then fell asleep again. The only interesting parts were when Scooby's master Shag (I think that's his name) fell in love and Scooby laughed at him, and when Buffy beat someone up. The movie kind of dragged on and inevitably ended, thankfully.  Overall I gave it 3/10.  "},{"Title":"About Right","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I heard this was to be a live action movie, I was shocked, it will not work.  When the cast was announced it was even more so.After taking the family to see it under slight duress, I was pleased. Neither the cast or the director took the movie overly seriously, but did not loose sight of doing a good job.  The result was an entertaining afternoon, done in the light script, chase Scooby and Shaggy style of the cartoons.  Can be slight frightening to youngsters, but balance by a laugh right after.For the flops of TV characters in the past this one made it by not trying to be anything more than the original was. "},{"Title":"An unexpected disappointment","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am a Scooby Doo fanatic!  I love the classics, and I tend to do nothing but critique the further efforts to modernize the show, such as Scrappy Doo and Scooby Doo Kids.  I have many of the original episodes on tape, and I love to watch them as they are the Scooby Doo that I know and love. However, I thought that the movie took a step way over the line.  For one, Daphne was never that ditzy and air-headed.  True, she didn't really have a purpose, but she never made stupid comments about shopping and her hair, as Daphne has been portrayed in almost every other re-make of the show.  I loved Scooby Doo and Shaggy, it was almost scary how remarkable a resemblance Matthew Lillard's voice sounded to Shaggy's.  However, both Daphne and Velma's roles were a disappointment, even though the actresses themselves are both very talented (especially Linda Cardellini!).  I wish I could say that this movie was as good as I had anticipated, but it doesn't even come close.  To any true Scooby Fan, you are likely to be disappointed after what you are accustomed to. "}{"Title":"Much Better Than What I Suspected","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went in the theater thinking this movie was gonna be crap. But, to tell you the truth, I thought it was really good. I never found the TV show funny, but the movie is pretty good for what it's supposed to be. Just like The Flintstones and Space Jam, Scooby Doo is one of those few movies (that were once a cartoon from the olden days) that were entertaining. "},{"Title":"This pathetic film disgraces both scooby doo and my country!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am ashamed to say I live in the same country where this crap was filmed! It was too long, tedius, boring with so much adult 'humour' injected into it, that kids would find it impossible to have a good time!It resorts to cheap laughs that made me cringe with horror and the plot is nothing like a scooby cartoon! Scooby Doo was a low point of the movie, as the very sight of him made me cringe! He prances around with that annoying voice, supposedly trying to be funny, but I can't see how any idiot would find humour in his antics!Daphne and Fred was another low point! I can't stand either of the actors who portrayed them, and the fact that they insulted my country made me furious! Nothing gives them the right to insult my country, and their very presence in the film brings it down! Gellar, who plays the most unconvincing Daphne ever, looks bored throughout, and mutters her lines flat and emotionless! She was a real low point to this film!This film ignored key points of the cartoon, and twisted around others for its own sick pleasure! The films portrayal of scrappy would have the creators of this cartoon turning in their graves! If they are not dead yet, scrappys portrayal would have certainly taken 5 years off their lives!The plot revolving around body snatchers is hardly suitable for children! What ever happened to the gool old 'I would have gotten away with it if not for you meddling kids!'?Scooby Doo fails on all levels! It is a perfect example of how not to turn a cartoon into live action! Watch the old cartoons with pleasure, and try to forget this awful movie ever existed! "},{"Title":"love the cartoon, and love the movie more","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say? I love the Scooby Doo cartoon, and watch it when I can. I love the movie more. It's fulfilling to see the characters so skillfully brought to life. Even the slang is there, i.e. Jinkies! The movie stays very true the cartoon, which is awesome. Well, aside from the bad guy, that is. That was an unusual choice. If you've seen the cartoon and the movie, you know what I mean.Scooby Doo is perfect for anyone. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Cute movie","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I watched Scooby Doo all the time when I was younger so I had to go see this movie when it came out.  I really enjoyed it, Matthew Lillard was great as Shaggy, the rest of the cast was good too.  If you weren't a fan of the cartoon I wouldn't recommend it, you probably wont get it and think it's a waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"No-brainer fun","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I absolutly loved this movie. I have to agree with mgreatho, if you did not like scooby as a cartoon, there is no way you will like this as a movie. I am in my 40's and have been a scooby fan since I was a teen. I didn't see this movie with any preconcieved ideas of what it should or shoudn't be. I went for one reason and one reason only. I wanted to see scooby. It met all expectations. Scooby and Shag were great. All the food, all the sillyness, all the fun  and shinanigans that made Scooby what it is supposed to be, just no-brainer fun. I personally did  not care for Freddie Prince as Fred but maybe thats not his fault. It could just be the way the role was wrote for him, Daphne an Thelma were pretty good, But Scooby and Shaggy are worth the price of admission just to see them. Make sure if you do see this to take time to watch the face of Scooby, they really did a great job of putting emotion into a computer animated character. "},{"Title":"Too Adult, but pretty good.","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went into this movie with the proper perspective. I imagined myself at age 10 on a Saturday morning watching the cartoon.But, unfortunately the adult references (Shag and Scoob a stoner, the gang being jealous of each other, occasional swearing and sexual references, and some very low cut clothes on the girls) kind of ruined that returning to childhood idea.The should have stuck more closely to the cartoon and I think more people would have enjoyed it.But overall, I give it a thumbs up and will probably buy it when it comes out on DVD. "},{"Title":"Doo Hit the Big Screen!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  We all love the talking brown dog named Scooby Doo along with his pals, Shaggy, Velma, Fred, and Daphne on TV. Well, they hit the big screen. When I went to go see the movie, I expected to see a storyline like the cartoon. The gang wasn't as friendly as they should be. Scooby Doo, the same muchin' chrunchin' loveable dog always with the same talented Shaggy. Velma was the geek of the group, but the film added a bit of an attitude toward her personality. Fred, on the other hand, was perceived as a dumb-witted blonde teenager. And finally, Daphne's was given an awful stereotypical damsel in distress attitude that we all hate. All in all though, the story did present a moral that says friends are forever.I would give this movie a C for lack of originality of the cartoon, but incredible computer graphics. If there's a sequel, let's hope they'll keep up the quality of the graphics as well as add an original, but intriguing story.Ryan Jean "},{"Title":"Buffy on steroids","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  After hearing and reading so negatively about this movie, I thought I might as well watch it being a Buffy the vampire slayer fan and a Scooby Doo cartoon fan and I have to admit it was pretty good.SUMMARYThe Mystery Inc. decide to go their separate ways after they disagree on so many things.Fred (Freddie Prinze Jr.) loving the spotlight and taking credit causes problems with Velma (Linda Cardellini) and Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar) gets tired of always being the bait leaving Shaggy (Matthew Lillard) and Scooby (Um...the dog!) to take the Mystery Inc. van and heading out to where ever they can find food. After a while each of them get invited to Spooky Island where they are to solve a mystery of why people leave as zombies after they have been there for a while leading them to team up once again yet unknowingly an old friend has become a foe and has much more in store for the Mystery Inc. than they can possibly imagine.Matthew Lillard does a wonderful job of portraying Shaggy, whilst everyone else seems to manage their roles somewhat okay. Sarah Michelle Gellar has a great fight scene in the movie, which was hilarious and the only thing I didn't like was Freddie Prinze Jr.'s hairdo...Rowen Atkinson's appearance surprised me and it was terrific to see him but he forgot to bring along his Mr. Bean/Blackadder humor. Scooby Doo's role was a little too far-fetched and we all could have done with a lot more of Scrappy Doo in it as well but it was still funny.I'd give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Scooby does NOT belong on the big screen","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I loved watching Scooby-Doo as a kid, so when I heard that Scooby-Doo was coming out as a movie my first thought was, Oh, I am so gonna see that! But, oh my gawd, was that a terrible movie! I expected it to be funny, but I think they tried too hard because I only got a couple of laughs. The rest of the time is was B-O-R-I-N-G!!! But, I do wanna say that Matthew Lillard did a great job portraying Shaggy - he sounded and looked just like him! "},{"Title":"FUN SUMMER MOVIE","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  At face value Scooby Doo is one of this years fun summer flicks. It has an appeal for all ages groups, and a few outright hilarious scenes between actor Matthew Lillard (Shaggy) and a CG Scooby. I didn't know I could laugh so hard! Definitely one to take the kids to.    "}{"Title":"Great for fans and good for everyone else","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby-Doo is great for fans and good for everyone else. I myself enjoyed the more adult jokes in the film. Don't worry. The few adult jokes go above the heads of younger children and as I said they are few. Very much like the cartoon with a slight modern twist. "},{"Title":"Faithful to its origins","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is based on the cartoon series from the 70's and doing a good job in keeping the atmosphere of that series. It's true that the characters remain one dimensional and some of the jokes don't work but it's still a film that evoke old memories(and Pre-knowledge is a must because otherwise you will get lost at the no-logic the film show). It's not a master work(and no one intended it to be such) but the acting is spot on in transferring the figures from the cartoon to the big screen. The film is not even trying to be super smart, you can guess who the villain is if you have the brain.By this point you are sure I hated the film. I didn't. I enjoyed quite a lot. It was pure fun for me. I didn't have to use my brain cell for this one and I couldn't care less. I'll probably forget it in a few days and that's fine with me. It's like a roller-coster ride- fast ride which end before you mange to get use to it. "},{"Title":"Too much fun!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I expected this to be strictly for kids and totally slapstick like Home Aone or Nutty Professor.  I was pleasantly surprised.  I went with my dad and my husband instead of going with my son and we all agreed it was plain fun just like the cartoon.  If you liked the cartoon and the zaniness and silliness that went along with it, then you'll like this.  Just have a good time. "},{"Title":"Yet another Scooby Doo review","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo, where are you? The little gang of mystery solvers has descended onto the big screen. Real and breathing&#133; except, that is, for the computer-generated dog. I shall quickly mention the old and new fans of this popular dated cartoon. I do not know how they felt about this movie; I am not one of them. I hate the cartoon for it is not only tersely repetitive but pointless, full of irritatingly repeating clishays and dreary old style animation, which I am NOT a fan of. I only spent money to see this movie out of the interest of how these characters were brought to life. That, and a passive interest in the actors Matthew Lillard and Sarah Michelle Gellar.The Positive &#150; Totally within the spirit of the animated Scooby Doo (I am reluctant to say I have watched the cartoon many a time), the characters, voices and actions, as well as those irritating memorable lines such as `like' or `Scooby Doo, where are you?' were readily repeated. The most amusing performance, or the one most to my liking, was Gellar as Velma. She gave a very intense feeling of a bitchy material girl which suites the actress quite well. One comment on her though, WHY WAS THE PURPLE SO DAMNED PINK?! Her clothes should have been more of a blue purple then a pink purple&#133; those idiots. Ahm. Right. Sorry but that just really got to me.The Negative &#150; Ok, no offence, I too am a computer freak, but the computer animation mixed with reality in supposedly `living' creatures is reeeeealy starting to get to me in the latest high budget movies. I am so proud of the latest Planet of the Apes for NOT putting computer graphics everywhere were makeup and costume get a little complicated. It looks stupid and ridiculous and just does not fit into the movie realistically. In conclusion, the movie was enjoyable, but breezy and thoughtless, which, after all, is what it should have been like.  "},{"Title":"A lot of fun for fans","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"   Ok, this isn't Shakespeare, or even X-Men. But the spirit of the cartoon I've loved since 1975 was there.  Shaggy was absolutely unbelievable. Scooby was perfect.  Velma was sooooo Velma.  The characterizations of Fred and Daphne were a bit off, but I think that's because Fred and Daphne are boring, so they had to do something with them.  I've seen criticism of SMG playing Buffy, I didn't see that, playing the BuffyBot now that I'd believe. They played homage to Daphne's knack for being kidnapped, to Scooby Snack Bribes, to Scooby's amazing ability to become a suitcase! What really sold me though was Scrappy.  I can't tell you how much I hate Scrappy.  Glad to know the Gang wasn't all that fond of him either.  My niece (13) and nephew (5) protested Scrappy's portrayal, but it sold me the movie, lock, stock, and Scooby/Shaggy in a barrel. Bottom line  If you are a fan, you will love it...if you aren't, then why bother going in the first place? "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Being someone who grew up watching Scooby-Doo, I had high hopes for the film, but wasn't terribly impressed with the trailers to the film.  Don't get me wrong, I wanted to see it, but it wasn't a top priority.  Needless to say, I watched the movie, and was very happy with it after all.  Before I'd seen the film I was quite skeptical of Scooby being a CG character.  But as I watched the film I realized that I think that was the better way to go.  First off, the character is being based on a cartoon, so what's the big deal if he still looks a little cartoony.  Secondly, HE'S A TALKING DOG!!!  So, anyway, I made my peace with the CG Scooby and accepted him.The movie's plot is quite thin and left me with a number of questions, but again, this is based on a cartoon so it's not a big deal if that plot is a bit questionable.The actors did a fine job with the film.  Freddy Prinze Jr. (Fred) did a fine job, as did Sarah Michelle Gellar (Daphne).  I was really impressed with Linda Cardellini (Velma), not just as an actress, but her beauty too.  I thought she was WAY more attractive than Sarah Michelle Gellar!  I was also REALLY impressed with Matthew Lillard as Shaggy.  He NAILED that voice perfectly!  ...And I have to mention Isla Fisher (Mary Jane), what a beautiful woman, and a good actress too...I'll definitely be keeping my eyes open for her future work!  The rest of the cast was good as well.There were a few pleasant surprises in the film, so I won't spoil the surprises for you, you'll just have to go see the film.  I really hope you like the film as much as I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"No one deserved this","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  For those who say this movie may not have been award-winning material, more than 95% of films released are never considered to any major awards. What I'm saying is that SD could have been a movie instead of a pop culture lesson session. All the major characters are not the ones on the television show. They're all annoying, salvo Shaggy and Velma. The only way this movie would've been worth it was include all the deleted scenes mentioned in the alternate versions sections of this movie. Rate it 1/4 for those who just want a good time. "},{"Title":"I was SURPRIIISED!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have kids who practically forced me to buy tickets for S/D once we got to the theatre. But I must admit, within a few minutes I was pleasantly surprised at the laugh level of this flick. And the Shaggy character was BORN for this role with even more kudoes when you consider he was acting against a piece of tape on a blue screen! Without the kids, I would never have found my way into this movie, but I'm glad it's where I ended up-it was quite entertaining-and even more surprising for me, I found the fart scene incredibly funny, laughing well after that scene was over-and I am one who looks with disdain at the use of body function jokes for a few cheap laughs! Worth seeing for some good fun. "},{"Title":"A fun waste of time.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  If you enjoy the Scooby Doo cartoons, then you'll most likely enjoy this, too. The movie feels like an episode of the series. The story is simple the Scooby gang breaks up after Fred selfishly takes credit for their last case. Two years later, they are all brought to Spooky Island by the same letter, asking them to help solve a mystery. The mystery teenagers are leaving Spooky Island like zombies. This is basically the premise for an episode of Scooby Doo, and we settle in for a little Mystery Inc. style investigation. The cast is great at acting like the cartoon characters, despite several misconceptions (Fred's vanity). Scooby is great even though he's CGI. It feels like the original Scooby gang. There's lots of action and plenty of comedy. Some of it is kiddie stuff, like Shaggy and Scooby's fart contest, and some of it is meant for the adults, like the smoke coming out the top of the Mystery Machine while Shaggy and Scooby laugh it up inside, which by the way was hilarious. Critics didn't really like this, but pay that no attention. This movie isn't meant to be an Academy Award winner. It provides a fun, solid 80 minutes of entertainment with jokes for the young and old. Its also got a killer soundtrack which is a cheap way to promote the movie, but it's still fun. This and cameos by Pamela Anderson and Sugar Ray make this a summer hit. This is exactly what a summer movie should be like. Like the TV show, this is an entertaining waste of time, and isn't meant to be anything more. Take the kids or even go by yourself, you'll have a great time. "},{"Title":"Not really Scooby Doo.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo is not really a movie about the old Cartoons. It's more like a parody. The cast isn't very spectacular. I thought that Edward Norton would make a great Shaggy... Instead we have this Lillard Guy, not too bad, not great either... "}{"Title":"A one way ticket back to childhood.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"    This movie was a blast.  As a 33 year old, this was perfect for me, since I watched Scooby Doo religiously as a child.  Matthew Lillard portrayal as Shaggy was incredible.  He should seriously be considered for an award, since I honestly felt I was watching a cartoon character come to life.  The rest of the cast does a great job too, and the villain behind the plot was a great choice!  The only departure I saw from the cartoon plots were that the monsters in this one were real!  I went with my 6 year old niece, and she was scared a few times, but not too bad.  If your child is sensitive in these areas, then please consider that.PeacePS, Who's your best Friend?  Raggy   ROFL..............    "},{"Title":"Wow this movie is like uber-awesome!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Just returned from seeing this movie and I have to say it was very well done.  Funny, a lot like the cartoon, great acting especially by Matthew Lillard who plays Shaggy, who was probably the one character most like the one you see in the cartoon.  Also hats off to Rowan Atkinson who was an excellent choice for a supporting actor.  Linda Cardellini was the other actor that stuck out as a very convincing Velma and Sarah Michelle Gellar who was perfectly cast as Daphne. Overall this movie receives a 7 out of 10 - go see it at any price. "},{"Title":"I'm very surprised that it didn't suck!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  At last Freddy Prinze Jr. is praised in this film, he really fits the character well. Sarah is usually Buffy as well with a Daphne touch, But the real deal is Matthew Lillard and the beautiful Linda Cardellini as Shaggy and Velma. As for Scooby's appearance, well the dog doesn't look real but the character is very real.I thought I'm going to see a wholesome take on the SCREAM series where kids are introduced to thrillers for the first time but I was wrong but it's alright it did provide some scares from the kids.  I hope ILM should go help Scooby become a real dog as possible. The kids really loved it especially the fart jokes and the surprise twist as well. the film caught me off-guard, I'm very upset that the critics didn't like it I guess maybe they never like to go back to their inner-child. Go see the film and have fun. The theatrical trailer annoyed me very much but your eyes can deceive you, I just hope they make the sequel a little bit more scarier.      "},{"Title":"Great Adeptation from the cartoon to Big Screen.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went to this movie as a big fan of the cartoon and NOT a big fan of ANY Freddie Prinze Jr. movie.  I was very pleasantly surprised in they seemed to capture many of the charectoristics that made the cartoon great.  Matthew Lillard did a great job as Shaggy.  Casey Kasem would be proud.  Velma was brought to life wonderfully and luckily Freddie & Sarah were not over exposed.  Very much like the cartoon and an overall great job.  "},{"Title":"98.5 / 100","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This was a great movie.  Matthew Lillard IS Shaggy.  Velma was very good. If you're too familiar with the cartoon you may notice that Fred and Daphne were both cast terribly, and dressed wrong.  The scene in the airplane, Scooby barks like a real dog and he looks like he's made out of Jello(tm). His head moves independent of his nose!  The only other scene i had a problem with was the farting contest between Shaggy and Scooby.  The rest of the movie was pure bliss.  Great story, great graphics, Shaggy, Velma and Scooby more than make up for Freddie Prinze and Sarah Gellar's bad work.  "},{"Title":"How to flip-flop like a politician (101)","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  In summation...I was sceptical of this revival because I wanted Jimmy Fallon to play Shag.  However, after BOTHERING to watch it... Matt Lillard is not only as comically genious as ever, but born to be (with no substitute, thus his tell tale laryngitis) The Shagster!  Bad movie, good Matthew! "},{"Title":"SCOOBY-DOO, WHERE ARE YOU?","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  If you are looking for just plain silliness, and a little bit of a story line. Then you found it in Scooby Doo. It's almost like the cartoon. But only Matthew Lillard and Linda Cardellini seem to have there parts well down as Shaggy and Velma. Freddie Prinze Jr does'nt act to well as Fred, besides looking real silly with blond hair. And Sarah Michelle Gellar seems to be spoofing her Buffy character then trying to get in the part of Daphine. But all around an okay film. I think this film is only good one time around. Please do not make a sequel. "},{"Title":"Good Times!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Since childhood, the cowardly figure of large Great Dane has always put a smile on my face.  Everything from his crazy hijinks, loveable speech impediment and insatiable appetite.  Of course I am talking about none other than, the one and only, Scooby-Doo!  Well, that was many years ago&#133;Now, 2002 brings us the real thing!  Straight from the cartoons and onto the big screen.  Scooby, Shaggy, Daphne Velma and Fred, are all given life in a crazy, zany and over-the-top live action adaptation of the hilarious Saturday morning cartoon.The film, which is just as tongue-in-cheek and campy as the cartoon, starts with out hero's attempting to thwart an alleged ghost in a toy factory.  Setting up the trap, as they did in the cartoon, and waiting for the bad guy to fall into their clutches.  Well, of course, Daphne has been captured by the `ghost' and is now its prisoner.  And just like the cartoon, the plan backfires, and the bad guy (who is unmasked to be the factory janitor) is revealed and all is well.  However, it seems that Mystery, Inc. is actually rather popular, and everyone knows who they are.  Fred is somewhat of a Heartthrob, and always takes all the credit.  Velma is the disgruntled brain, upset that Fred never gives her the credit due to her.  Daphne is, you guessed it, the helpless Damsel in Distress.  And Shaggy and Scooby are exactly as you remember them.  Big chickens!Well, the gang get into a big fight, leaving Fred, Velma and Daphne to go their separate ways&#133;Shaggy and Scooby, almost heart-broken, also head out on their own.One this about this film that was different from the cartoon, was the fact that the other characters had personalities.  I mean, the show really revolved around Shaggy and Scooby, leaving the other three has no more than `supporting characters.'  However, in the movie, Velma and Daphne seem to be in competition with each other over almost anything.    Fred is very much the pretty-boy, frat type.  But we like their characters.  The filmmakers and writers seems to have given them personalities that the audience would relate to and appreciate&#133;still very much comical, though!2 years later, the gang is brought back together by an invitation to visit a Theme Park, situated on an island.  Spooky Island seems to be inhabited by ghosts, or under and evil spell.  All those who leave the island seem to be not themselves.  They are almost like&#133;zombies!  Instantly, they are all on their own missions to solve the case.I don't want to give too much more away.  Take heart, though.  The gang does not stay mad at each other too much longer.  Matthew Lillard is brilliantly cast as Shaggy.  The voice, the clothes, the mannerisms; everything is right on!  Freddie Prinze Jr. and Sarah Michelle Gellar are okay as Fred and Daphne.  It seems they were too easily `placed' in those roles and really didn't understand the characters.  Linda Cardellini gives Velma a slight edge, which the cartoon did not have.  However, she is able to pull it off, and portrays the character with flair.Overall, the plot of the movie is extremely silly and over-the-top!  You almost get lost, however, in how much this movie is like the cartoon.  Taking the audience to the utmost levels of camp, cheese and goofiness, Scooby-Doo is a film that anyone can enjoy!8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Perfect for what it is.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A silly movie with a plot that does not bear repeating.  I am happy I saw it in the theatre, because it was what I was in the mood for that night.  It is kinda short, under 90 minutes, so is this review.4 out of 5 for entertainment and pop culture 2 out of 5 if you are looking for a Good movie "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I must say the hundreds of kids packed into the theatre where I saw this movie seemed to enjoy themselves immensely. But my experience with kids is, they seem to enjoy themselves immensely just about anywhere they find other kids.For adults, the laughs are fewer and harder to find. So be sure and take a kid with you! "}{"Title":"I got sucked in!!!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  And not by the hype..I think like the majority of the audience I saw it with (it was a late-night session), I was expecting something a little more mature than what we got.  But I'm not complaining.  Scooby-Doo was fun, from start to finish.  And hey, it is based on a kid's cartoon after all, and ultimately this is geared toward the children's market... I think the fact that this film stars Sarah Michelle-Gellar and Freddie Prinze Jr., largely considered key players among today's acting ITkids (teen ones at that), a lot of people might be expecting this to be a more mature outing for Scooby Doo and co.  Not so!The sets and characters are all larger-than-life and colorful, the story is simple, as is the humor.  But once you get into it and take it for what it is you might well find yourself laughing out loud.  Lots of fun.      "},{"Title":"I really liked this movie","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am a big fan of Scooby-Doo and I really enjoyed this movie.  The whole cast was great.  I especially liked Linda Cardellini's Velma.  It really sounded like Nicole Jaffe's original voice.  I have to disagree with Jerry, this isn't a kid's movie.  People of all ages would enjoy this.  I especially liked the part where Scooby was dressed up as an old lady, posing as Shaggy's grandmother, then he started chasing that cat.  That was hilarious.  I also liked when Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar) was talking to that guy who told her not to go near that castle.  You want me to go to the castle, that's why you told me not to go to the castle, unless you knew that I'd figure that out, so I wouldn't go to that castle.  I liked that dialog. As for Scrappy-Doo, I agree that J.P. Manoux did a good job with the voice, but why did they make him a bad guy?  I remember he saved Shagg and Scoob from being eaten by a monster on the Reluctant Werewolf.  I understand that a lot of people dislike the character, but I thought that making him evil was a bit strange.  And about Scooby, it might not have been Scott Innes who did the voice.  I read in a news article that it was some guy named Neil Famming, but whoever it was, he was really good.  Overall, this was a good movie.  I'd be interested in seeing it again sometime. "},{"Title":"Cute and fun movie","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Okay I really, really liked this movie. But I am a cartoon fanatic so that must be put in mind. I felt the movie for the most part captured the feeling of the original episodes of the show. It was creepy in a silly way that kids enjoy. The movie overall is entertaining and is much better than I figured it would be. But let's be honest, even though Scooby-Doo is amazing popular it's always been a guilty pleasure for many people. So keeping the movie with a tongue-in-check feeling made it work well. I thought the special effects were well done. Matthew Lillard was perfect casting as Shaggy. He was born to play the part. Linda Cordellini was also great as Velma. Growing up almost every girl I knew worshiped Velma because she was one of the only girls on TV(live action or cartoon)- who looked like a real female. She stays very faithful to the character which I'm grateful. Freddie Prinze Jr. and Sarah Michelle Geller I don't know about. I felt the could have been more faithful to the characters. Freddie Prinze LOOKS like Fred, but anyway. Overall a cute movie. Almost all the kids at the screening left the theater saying nothing but wonderful things about the movie. Which since the movie aimed at kids means more about it reaching it's target audience than movie critics feeling's on it. Fun, fun movie for kids and cartoon nuts who are kids at heart.P.S. The monsters were cool. "},{"Title":"Scooby-Doo, Scooby SUCKS...","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" There are many distasteful scenes in &#145;Scooby-Doo' one of which is a scene based on laughless flatulence. That being said, the most atrocious element of the film is the flagrant script that seemed to have been written within a few hours. Director Raja Gosnell (Big Momma's House, Never Been Kissed) has nothing to work with in this truly deplorable film that leaves one wondering Why is Hollywood churning out such unoriginal garbage?Freddie Prinze, Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar and Matthew Lillard highlight this &#145;teeny-bopper' flick that uses every possible second to sneak in a song from the soundtrack and utterly wastes our time in this poor display of cinematic ingenuity. The decision to go with a computer animated Scooby Doo character was a costly one, and perhaps even the right one. But lackluster storytelling combined with atrocious scripting results in a truly uncomforting movie going experience. Clearly aimed at a target audience of children, the film will surely make the little ones bask in such a costly and eye-popping experience, but the overall feel of the film is that not even the children will stay put for the film's short running time. The creators of this film seem to think that children are naïve and unimpressionable. Yet the only impression children will receive is a feeling of  complete disintegration of the Scooby Doo character. All our characters from Velma (Linda Cardellini) to Shaggy (Matthew Lillard) appear in this debacle of a film. As every great team has their triumphs and tribulations, so do the members of Mystery, Inc. After a two year hiatus, the gang returns to solve a mystery on the reclusive resort of Spooky Island. Owned by the eccentric Mondavarious (Rowan Atkinson), he hires the team to solve the gradual behaviorist changes noticed in the young party going clientele on the resort. Special effects as well as grandiose sets are rampant in this reported 63$ Million production, yet I would trade all that in for a script that made one single solitary ounce of sense.  The film is quickly paced and leaves no room for the digestion of the devastatingly horrible film which eats away at your existence. The film opens up with the climax that every Scooby Doo cartoon had. The mystery is solved, the bad guy is caught and the gang celebrates. From the opening of the film, it is clear Director Raja Gosnell aims at capturing the campiness and the goofiness that was atypical within the cartoon series. Not to mention, the first act makes little effort at masking Shaggy liking for; shall we say, exotic tastes. The subtle marijuana references are plentiful and do provide for a good chuckle or two, but that is where it stops. The film attempts at capturing the innocence and exuberance as viewed in the series but fails on every level. The first act has a healthy dose of adventure and comedy, yet by the second act the elements become recycled and clichéd resulting in a truly unfitting experience. Some ideas are simply best left alone. Scooby Doo was one of them.Giancarlo's Rating * 1/2  "},{"Title":"If not for Shaggy and Scooby, one of the worst adaptations ever","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The summary pretty much sums up my feeling about this movie.  Any classic Scooby fan will like this film for its entertainment, but not for anything to do with Scooby Doo, and here is why I feel that way.After watching about 30 episodes in one week, I performed a small role analysis on Scooby Doo once for a psych course, and things don't pan out well with the movie.  Most of the time in the series, Fred was the one who kept the group together and was a natural leader.  What some won't recognize is that when it came to getting his hands dirty though, it was a sign of fear on his part that the group was always using Shag and Scoob for the dangerous parts and maybe a little machismo in that he always went with Daphne.  But Fred as a vain, self-centered, retard as in the movie? Hello, Fred solved half of the mysteries.  It wasn't all Velma.  Fred was the leader because of his likability.  Here, Fred is not likeable at all and Freddie Prince was a horrible choice for the part.  I like Prince as an actor, he simply didn't have the physique to play the part and his emotional spread wasn't there.  I don't know who to blame, but I'm going with the writers since I think he's done better.  Furthermore, I did NOT want him and Daphne to get together, as I always hoped in the cartoons.Then there is Daphne.  For goodness sakes.  Buffy is hot and a good actress, but Daphne was in no way a woman of the 90's.  In the newer Scooby Doo movies, they did a really good job of modernizing her, especially in Zombie Island (where the monsters were also real).  She was an individual career woman and her wealth was underplayed.  She was still able to be attractive without being a ditz.  She had just enough vulnerability to make her endearing to Fred.  But here she comes off much more self-centered (although not so much as Fred by a long shot in the movie) and a martial arts expert. Why would she even hang out with the rest of these misfits?  The whole universe is thrown out of whack.  To put it in the words of another favorite modern kids cartoon, it really WOMPED.Next, there's Velma.  Her vulnerability is shown through her glasses dependence, along with a little comic relief.  She is the intelligent one. Here is another place where this film upset me.  They go to all the trouble of modernizing Daphne, and then they go and throw back Velma.  Here was the woman of the 90's invented in the 60's, but in this film, she is prone to peer pressure and just wants to be cool.  Well, Velma always was cool and sure of herself.  She didn't need the accolade of others, she had her own intrinsic motivations.  With the exception that Velma is totally hot in this film, they screwed her.  The actress did an excellent job playing the part that was directed and we will definitely being seeing more of her, but the part itself stunk.  I in no way pitied the character and wanted her to be liked, instead, I wanted her to just get the you know what slapped out of her until she came to her senses.Finally, there is Shaggy and Scooby.  Yes, I saved the best for last. Lillard and Scooby were excellent.  Lillard, although somewhat type cast when you look at his parts (and he needs to do more without Prince) is the key to this film.  His interplay with Scooby is believable.  The computer graphics are believable.  But even here the writers and directors messed up a good thing.  The drug scene was always an implication in the toons.  It in no way needed to be anything more than that.  Most children under 12 do not pick up on the drug hints in the cartoons.  Well, there is no way to miss it her.  Boo on hollywood for this one.  Should have been PG-13, and then maybe they would have rewritten it a little to get back a PG rating, like getting rid of the drug parts.  I don't remember weed smoke coming out of the Mystery Machine, do you?  For that matter, they're sort of saying then that all of the kids did drugs if only second hand, which is sort of implied in the series as well, but it doesn't need to be in the movie this way.Lastly, we all hate Scrappy.  Can we agree on that one.  I especially liked the handling of him on the Cartoon Network when they did the Scooby Doo Project.  Velma and Daphne go running when they hear da-da-da-da---da-da. Velma tells Daphne, It's only Scrappy, and then Daphne replies as she is running, I know.  Made me laugh and laugh.I know some other commenters didn't like real monsters.  Well, that didn't kill this film.  Zombie Island had real monsters and it was good.  Witch's Ghost had a real witch and it was good.  This had real monsters and it stunk, flat out.  If I didn't have free tickets, I wouldn't see it.  I have every Scooby available on DVD, but I will NOT be buying this on DVD unless it is under $12, and even then, I will only get it for Lillard/Shaggy and Scooby.  Lillard's Scooby was even better and made me laugh more than SNL's parody. "},{"Title":"Scooby Dooby Doo..!!","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film, witch is inspired from the cartoon-series from the late 70's is very fun. It's a very enjoying production and the manuscript couldn't be better. Sarah Michelle Gellar and Freddie Prinze Jr, (who's a couple in real life) are very good in this movie. It's not the first time for them to act in front of the camera together, they are both in the cast-list of I Know what You Did Last Summer. The other stars in Scooby Doo (2002) is very good too, but my favorites here is, and I say it again; Sarah Michelle Gellar and Freddie Prinze Jr. I really hope that they make a sequel to this film, or maybe lot's of sequels..! =) To come up a story to this film can't be difficult, cu's for you didn't know...this film is based on an animated TV-series for children from the late 70's to the early 80's. So it can't be that hard to come up a new story. My favorite episode of the original TV-series is when Scooby Doo and Scrappy together with Shaggy is locked in a pyramid together with a mummy.. Very fun!Ok..now to the end of my comment; I TRULY recommend this film, and I really mean that, to the bottom of my heart. See it now, cu's u will not be dissapointed! I'll give it ***** / 5. =) "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie with my 8 year old daughter...we both loved it...Great movie for Scooby Doo fans.... The only thing I would have changed in the movie was the villain at the end.....they shouldn't have made him out to be the bad guy....he is always a good guy in the scooby doo cartoons....what were they thinking.... "},{"Title":"Pointless and a waste of time.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am usually very generous in movie reviews but this flick deserves no generosity whatsoever.  I did not like this movie AT ALL!!!!!  Scooby's animation was okay but not the best.  Other thingsCastingSarah Michelle Gellar~ Very talented actress, terrible part...I cannot see Sarah as Daphne at all I'm sorry.Freddie Prinze, Jr.~ It's good that they decided to put a real life relationship to Fred and Daphne but together they don't go very well on screen.Matthew Lillard~ He did a GREAT job with Shaggy!!!  Shaggy has to be the most difficult character to display for Scooby-Doo and he did a great job with the voice, expressions, and laugh too.Linda Cardellini~ Very attractive behind the actual face of Velma and she did a pretty good job portraying the character.Rowan Atkinson~ MR. BEAN AS A BAD GUY (sort of)...THAT'S SOME HILARIOUS CRAP!!!The voice for Scooby~ Great job!PLOTAs usual, Scooby and the gang get into a chase scene, some classic lines are put in and the most common line was said which is, And I would have gotten away with it too if it weren't for you meddling kids and your stupid dog!  "},{"Title":"The trailer was right, this is Scooby Poop","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby-Doo is Hollywood's latest attempt to capture baby boomer nostalgia, and like most of the films released in that attempt, this one falls flat on it's face.  Inane dialogue, poor casting, and an uninteresting storyline doom this one from the very start.That being said, Matthew Lillard is THE ultimate Shaggy.  It's entirely possible that Lillard is more Shaggy than Shaggy, and this film allows him to showcase himself as an actor and step out from behind the shadow of the feature actors he works with in here.  Second best role in the movie, as the CGI Scooby is actually fun to watch.  Way too obviously a computer dog, but he's fun anyway.Linda Cardellini is Velma, always the quick thinking brain of the bunch. Miss Cardellini camps this one up and has every mannerism down pat.  She does good with what she's given and I'd like to see her carry a film (like she did the NBC series Freaks and Geeks).  Comes in right behind Lillard and is about the only other interesting thing in the entire mess.Freddie Prinze Jr. is Fred.  Arrogant, self-absorbed and self-important, Freddie makes Fred even more obnoxious than he was to begin with, and allows his ego to cause rifts within the group.  If you've seen any of the talk show promo being done, you have to wonder why Freddie would annihilate a beloved character of his in quite this manner......might it be his lack of acting talent?  We'll have to see.Sarah Michelle Gellar chimes in as Daphne....miscast here as the damsel in distress that is sick of being in distress, Sarah can't even pull off being the prettiest girl in the movie!   That honor belongs to Shaggy's love interest Mary Jane (played uninterestingly by Isla Fisher). I always remember Daphne as the prettiest one in the show, and Sarah (who is quite lovely, don't get me wrong) can't even fall back on her looks to carry her through.  Perhaps Ms. Gellar should stick to Buffy, as that seems to be the only arena she is capable of carrying.The rest of the cast is completely forgettable, from Rowan Atkinson's Mr. Mondavarious to the ridiculious cameos of Pam Anderson and Sugar Ray, all are forgettable...and Mondavarious is supposed to be a key character!!If you're under 10 or just a major fan, this movie will work for you. However, anyone else should avoid this thing like the plague.  Director Raja Gosnell needs to firm up a script and gain command of the lens before he helms his next project.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Stay at Home","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a little bit too much like the cartoon to suit me. Surprisingly, animated Scooby was pretty believable. There was about as much plot in this film as a 5 minute cartoon. Lillard was awesome as Shaggy, but the other characters were really 2 dimensional and boring. They should have either made a full length animation or actually let the actors be real people. "}{"Title":"Hilariously funny!!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was such a thrill to see and wait in line for. It was so funny and spectacular. The characters looked exactly like they were portrayed in the cartoon. It was such a time warp for my mom. I can not wait to see it again!! "},{"Title":"Damn funny","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  nicely handled. i thought it was going to be terrible, but the guy who wrote it, who also wrote tromeo and juliet, he handled the entities of the gang really well. this movie really surprised me. total stoner flick, though. so you haters probably won't like it. "},{"Title":"Very, very funny!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Although I am a high school student, I really enjoyed this movie! It was a very faithful rendition of the cartoons. Matthew Lillard, Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, and Linda Cardellini play the Mystery Inc. perfectly! Lillard is especially good as Shaggy! Rowan Atkinson was also very funny.If you want a whole bunch of good laughs, and not have your intelligence insulted, go see SCOOBY-DOO! "},{"Title":"Cancelled kiss","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The film might better have played as a cartoon.  It should have gone less for humor and more for scary mystery.  Also we don't need any flatulance jokes or please get it movie makers kids hate lovey dovey stuff.Thank goodness the same sex kissing scene got cut out and ended up on the cutting room floor as was widely written about by the media but still makes you wonder who is running the kids film industry.  Still it was better than the unbearably PC Spirit. "},{"Title":"I hate to say it fun for the whole family","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I took my nine year old sister to this movie to prove to her the generosity of her big brother. I have to admit that I entered the theatre with low expectations. I recognized the charm of these classic characters and spent far too many hours of my precious childhood absorbing the exploits of the gang of `supernatural' detectives. Of course the predictability became a problem and after I matured to the venerable age of seven I simply couldn't take it any longer. So Scooby was retired and only brought forth from the back burner in disgust for the capitalistic rape in the form toys, cups, obscenely banal, yet glossy, children's books.etc. Inevitably that maddening sibling 10 years my junior had taken a liking to that sickeningly loveable, green freak, dog. So with a heavy heart I brought her to see him in all that shiny new CG splendor of his, and was incredibly impressed. I laughed at some of the kiddy humor expected in such a flick, but at several subtle aspects thrown in to keep the rest of us from the way we might feel after sitting through the dull labor of Spirit and the like. A significant source of enjoyment was the social commentary of the school to teach the beasts to act how every `perfectly normal' college kid should act and the result shown in the longer-stayed Spooky Island guests. That and the blatant suggestion of marijuana use of our favorite duo made the enjoyment last nearly the entire ninety or so minutes. I can still remember the hearty chuckle of that realization birthed of a slightly more sophisticated mind.Go see it, take the kids; it might even be worth the $8.50 a head. There are plenty of ways to enjoy this movie  "},{"Title":"Ruh roh Raggy!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  About time! Finally Scooby Doo hit's hollywood in a live-action movie, depicting classic lines, cloths and scenerios from the cartoon! The cast is brilliant, with the exception of the ego maniac Fred, Freddy Prinze Jr trys to pull off, but fails misserably. Freddys character was much unlike the original, wich really made me curl. But Velma and  Shaggy were braught to life in both amazing performances. The computer animated Scooby was brilliant. All in all, this is a must see for any Scooby fan.... SCOOBY-DOOBY-DOO! "},{"Title":"A great movie for the family.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I seen this movie opening day,as well as the next day ,too with the expectations that it couldn't be pulled off, but I was very wrong. Matthew Lillard,who played Shaggy, pulled off his part just right, not to mention so did the other characters. This is a great movie for children not to mention it has great humor in it for adults as well. Scooby-Doo may be computer animated but in a sense it was pulled off correctly too because you couldn't actually get a dog to do a great Scooby impression. After seeing this movie twice I would say it is a good movie to go see. People are giving it bad reviews because they thought it should be perfect but this is a movie made for children to give them an idea of the mystery gang in real life. I know some people may not like it and thats because when they go to see it they have the expectations that it should be like the godfather or something. So all in all I give it an A+.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining if slight comedy","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A fairly faithful adaption of the original cartoons with Scooby and the gang reuniting to try to figure out who is brainwashing the teenagers at Spooky Island. Matthew Lilliard does a dead-on impersonation of the cartoon Shaggy which is somewhat scary to witness... the rest of the cast is hit and miss. Linda Cardellini as Velma is fairly good, Freddie Prinze Jr. however seems to be stuck in some netherzone where he lives a permanent bad hair day... i dont remember the cartoon Fred being quite so vapid... Sarah Michelle Gellar as Daphne is ok in a poorly written part.. and the animated Scooby (voiced by Scott Innes, whose done the more recent cartoons) is acceptable, if not exactly ground breaking. The story itself is mostly entertaining, though it does drag in the mid-section a result of stretching a half-hour cartoon show into feature length i suppose.. If you liked the TV show this is based on and view it in that realm.. as a live action version of the show, this can be very enjotable.. if you didnt watch the show or didnt like it.. this one isnt for you. And.. for the fans.. the revelation of the big bad at the end is hillarious. GRADE B "},{"Title":"Not quite what I expected.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was very excited to see the Scooby movie since my 5 year old watches the series everyday.  I was pleasantly surprised at the talent of Linda Cardinelli and Matthew Lilliard.  Their performances were dead on.  I am a huge Buffy fan, but I'm not sure Sarah Michelle was right for this part.  I couldn't sympathize with Daphne wanting to save the day when she acted like Buffy would have in fighting bad guys. Freddie Prinze, Jr. was not right for this part at all, I could never see him as Fred.  The CGI was amazing, and the flashback to Scrappy-Doo was hysterical.  All in all, I would recommend it to Scooby fans, but not to anyone not familiar with the series. Then again, who ISN'T familiar with Scooby Doo? "},{"Title":"Pass the Scooby-snacks and the espresso! I'm nodding...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have seen too many Scooby-Doo episodes on TV, (although under coercion from a sadistic pre-schooler who routinely threatens to whine at me with extreme prejudice if I don't recant and pass the remote), and I confess that I just don't get it.  I don't even get the Scooby Goes Hollywood where old 60s & 70s celebrities appear as cartoon caricatures of themselves; just plain-famous folks caught in another impossibly dull Scooby-Shaggy episode against assorted pseudo-monsters.  But, my 6-year-old loves it!  He doesn't care an iota if Kurosawa didn't direct it! Now, a few asides are needed here&#133; I have been to Universal Studios, Florida and applauded Doug Funny and `The Rugrats!' on stage.  I actually went to a `Barney the Dinosaur' live concert and howled like a teenage In Sync fan when Old Barn came rolling out with his purple pot belly in gleeful kinesis! I have even enthusiastically interacted with Steve & Blue for clues&#133; but this `Scooby-Doo' thing lacks anything remotely redeemable.  I loathe the show's time slot&#133;I become perceptibly stressed with hives before `Scooby-Doo' marathons on the Cartoon Channel, usually a Sunday event, which inevitably conflicts with Yankee-Red Sox games.  The social relations among the &#145;Scooby' Five, not to be confused with the Scottsboro 5, are void of any allegory or depth.  The dog and his cohorts are rendered in a flat, two-dimensional graphic style reminiscent of `Steamboat Willie.'  The animation is without depth or perspective, and the characters move around on perfectly still budget-friendly backgrounds&#133;yech! The characters (Shaggy, Daphne, Velma and Fred) bring matching personas to their screen presence. And, Scooby has apparently evaded the evolutionary lottery of natural selection, which mandates that a palette, tongue and convoluted cerebral cortex are required for language acquisition!  Scooby speaks, inexplicably, in limited English but with an annoying & incomprehensible `r-r-r-r-u-f-f' sound prefixing every utterance. Of course, only Shaggy and my son can understand this coded canine verbal-slaw. OK&#133;so I get the Scooby-thing&#133;it's pure silly nonsense played for yucks!  I get the Scooby Snack-thing&#133;the dog is always hungry!  I even accept that Scooby must never hump the guest star's leg, although my son occasionally springs a pre-school woody for Daphne Blake&#133;certainly a fertile topic for father-son dialogues about the male 'willy' and its various purposes. Regardless of this concealed erotic bonus feature, it still is an all time low achievement from the predictably banal imaginations of Hanna & Barbera. You will recall that they were also the creators of&#133;'The Flintstones', another &#145;one-trick-pony', flat animation series with the effect of a `pie-in-the-face' to any National Hope in growing a generation prepared to catch the Japanese in math & science! (Certainly, paleontology has a slight chance here from the splash benefits of the current cultural swell of 'dinophilia'.  Also, a note here of apology to `Jay', my sushi-guru who won't even whisper his true &#145;Sino-nymn' for fear that I will lingually disfigure it&#133; Jay, buddy, I know you guys have limited access to archeological digs around Osaka, et.al.  Nothing personal.  I don't even hold Hondas & `Dragonball Z' against you guys! OK?  Keep that great &#145;California Roll' coming...it's pure art.) But, Lord!  Deliver us from the purveyors of the bland, vacuous cartoon series that repeats and repeats and repeats&#133;then mercifully dies&#133;and resurrects 10 years later on 24-hour cable TV!  (I'm praying that a &#145;round the clock `Scooby-Doo Network' does not rise up from the ashes!) But, wait! There's more!  This fetid, animated pabulum is miraculously resuscitated at the brink of expiration as a full-length feature film intended to collect the box office proceeds that should've been paid originally to a hired assassin to put the whole dreary project team &#145;asleep'&#133;humanely. Oh well. I could be wrong.  Maybe `Scooby-Doo' is really the charming, diverting visual poem that my son assures me that it is&#133;twice daily... and twice that again on Sunday.  After all, he is Daphne-obsessed and worse things could happen at 6.  "}{"Title":"The Gang was Great the Mystery was too Mystic","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The cast did an excellent job of portraying what you would imagine the gang to be like in real life.  The Scooby animation is pretty good; his 4wheeling talents are very impressive.  The movie actually answered some questions I had from the cartoon series.  Does smoke ever bellow out of the mystery van, and if so what kind of smoke is it?  Does Velma ever resent being over shadowed by pretty-boy Freddie and Princess Daphne?  Do Shag and Scooby ever have reactions to all the food they eat? (burps/flatulence).   The movie was entertaining for children and Adults, not as much as Toy Story or Shrek, but amusing.  But once again Hollywood has to put their twist on the kid-friendly villains and make them into real demons and monsters.  This episode of Scooby has real black magic/voodoo monsters, a cross between a gremlin and raptor, chasing the gang around, the kids soon learn there is no mask to remove.  If you're opposed to Harry Potter, you'll not like Scooby Doo for the same reasons.  For the Dads, Pamela Anderson busts in for a minute or two. "},{"Title":"Some Critics Just Don't Get","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  My rating of Scooby-Doo?  3 Stars/7 out of 10.Let me just say now, I loved the movie and will likely buy it.  Being a 38 year old male, I was in the prime age group of Scooby-Doo (the cartoon) when it began in the 60s.Scooby was my favorite cartoon.  Why?  Because Scooby was so cool.  He was funny; I laughed my head off.So when I saw Scooby-Doo (the movie) last night, I laughed hard and loud!  There were kids all around me looking at me as if I was nuts!  But Scooby was Scooby.  That's who I grew up with and that's who I loved in the movie!Why only 3 stars instead of 4? Why only 7 out of 10?Three things about the movie bothered me 1)The fact that the 'meddling kids' were doing so much fighting amongst themselves, 2)Shaggy and Velma had love interest (why does Hollywood insist everyone have a boyfriend or girlfriend?), and 3)the villain was such a disappointment.  Many familiar with the original cartoon hated the character, and as a villain in this movie - it made matters worse.If not for those three things, the movie would have played just like a standard 30 minutes episode with every silly hilarious cliche.So the big rotund movie critic who sits in a balcony blasted this movie saying that myself..., even at a very young age, discoveredthat the world was filled with entertainment choices more stimulating than Scooby-Doo.What arrogance!He was right in saying that if you aren't familiar with Scooby-Doo you wont get the joke.  Very true.  But to insult people who did grow up with Scooby-Doo?He also wrote (after blasting the movie) I did like the dog. Scooby-Doo so thoroughly upstages the live actors that I cannot understand why Warner Bros. didn't just go ahead and make the whole movie animated.Duh!!!!  The dog IS the movie and everyone else is support!!! Also, why make it animated when that's what's on the Cartoon Network every day?!?!?!Critics are pompous.  If you love Scooby-Doo - this is a fun movie!  "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  the movie was goodMatthew Lillard's Shaggy was great he was the heart and soul of the movie he had great chemestry with scooby speaking of scoobyCgi Scooby was so cuteAnd my mom who hates scooby doo liked it she said it was better that the cartoon8 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Should have been PG-13","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I think that it was cute and that it's more like Shrek in the sense that some of the material was unsuitable for the small children i saw in the theater. But anyone 13 and older could enjoy it because it was still the lovable Scooby Doo. Everyone seemed to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A few funny bits, but overall poorly done","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie commits the fundamental error of discarding the premise of the TV show on which it was based. By making the monsters real and the friends bicker, Scooby-Doo (the movie) loses the nostalgia and campiness that has made Scooby-Doo (the TV show) a favorite for decades.The actors do well with the material they were given. The plaudits for the character of Shaggy are well deserved. But, is there really a point to making Fred a vain, self centered air head? To transforming Daphne into a martial arts expert? To replacing Velma's nerdy self confidence with an I just wanna be liked by the cool kids self pity?My 7-year-old daughter put it best, saying that the opening vignette (a mini-adventure unmasking a ghost in a toy factory) was better than the rest of the movie. For that matter, so are any of the reruns on the Cartoon Network. "},{"Title":"A Faithful Interpretation","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby-Doo is a faithful interpretation of the cartoon series.  It does a good job of bringing the characters to life.  The cartoon series was my favorite as a kid, and fans of the cartoon show are the target audience for this movie.  If you have never seen the TV show or did not like it, then this is probably not the movie for you.  The movie reminded me of aspects of the show that I had forgotten about, and they hit all the same notes that the TV show used to hit.  If you hated the show then you might say the same cliches, but knowing they were coming was always part of the fun.  And that feeling carries over to the movie.The opening sequence is an action scene that wraps up a mystery that the team solves.  They have a bit of a conflict and go their separate ways until they are called together to a mysterious island fun park run by a character played by Rowan Atkinson, the guy from Mr. Bean.  It seems that strange things are happening on spooky island and he wants the team to investigate.The storyline was actually pretty good.  I know a lot of people are going to think I'm nuts nut but at least this film had two actual conflicts that the characters were trying to resolve.  One pertains to the mystery and one pertains to interpersonal conflicts between the team.  For me the latter was the more interesting because it invoked the nostalgic attachment that I have to the characters.  A lot of 'serious' films do not have clearly drawn plots, so Scooby gets credit there.  Having said this however, this is a comedy without a lot of big laughs.  It is more about nostalgic smiles.  So much of the original TV series is preposterous, and this film does a great job of bringing that to the big screen.  Some of the action scenes are the least inspiring because things become a little bit jumbled.  Something is off in some of these scenes, most notably the opening action sequence.  Maybe it's the direction, maybe the editing, but it just doesn't work.  Later action scenes work better but this still not the film's strong point.  There is a sequence in the middle of the film that takes place in a haunted house of sorts that is a very effective action sequence because there are relatively few characters involved, minimizing the confusion.  The sequence at the end works less well.Most interesting is the interplay between the characters.  Prinze as Fred and Gellar as Daphne do a fine job.  They do what they can with the parts, which are the least interesting of the mystery squad.  The real revelations in casting are Linda Cardellini as Velma and Matthew Lillard as Shaggy.  These are the kind of performances that send you back to IMDB to figure out what else these actors have been in.  Their characters are the meatier roles among the four and they both excel at bringing them to life.  It's a goofy story but there is real acting going on here and these performers deserve some credit.  In fact since Scooby was digitally added, you really have to give Lillard some credit.  You never felt that he was talking to a sock puppet.  And Cardellini manages to convey a lot of emotion and thought with her facial expressions, despite wearing heavy Velma glasses throughout the film. The art direction is very good - the look of the film is interesting without distracting from the actions of the characters.  Some of the CGI, like in so many films these days, is a bit fuzzy.  Scooby himself is serviceable but not a masterwork from a CGI perspective.  From the perspective of how the role is written and performed, Scooby is great.Overall not a movie for those who were never fans of the TV show, but great fun for kids and for those of us who liked the TV show. "},{"Title":"Scooby Doo the movie","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  After last year hearing Lloyd Kaufman mention that James Gunn would be writing the live action Scooby Doo movie I knew that it would be a great movie.  So after thirteen months of the wait it finely hit the theaters. I went to see it on the second day and it was still over crowded even on the first screening which was 1145AM. I sat through the movie and watched. I laughed through out the whole entire film, it was a great movie! The actors were great, the movie was great, and I loved the ending to it because I never liked Scrappy.  Now the Mary Jane thing and the scene where you think that Scooby and Shaggy are getting stoned, who cares?! Shaggy and Scooby are hippies, if you take your kids to see that movie and they see the parts that are like that and you get offended by it, dont go! It's not like your kids will say MOMMY WHAT'S THAT? So all and all seeing this movie makes the other Hanna Barbara live movies look like crap, so I will give Scooby Doo, a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Rooby-Rooby-Roooooooooooooooooooo!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It's time to get silly! I wasn't sure what to expect. Just a fun little movie with CGI Scooby in it, but I haven't had such a good time in a movie in a long time. I definitely consider it the best movie I've seen this year. Anyone who's a fan of the series or even used to watch it will get a big kick out of everything here. The characters are all here. I was a little annoyed that Freddy and Daphne weren't really much like their cartoon alter egos but at least it didn't get in the way. Matthew Lillard was SPOT ON as Shaggy...and what a cool surprise to find Rowan Atkinson in here too! And the cool thing is...the movie was frequently really creepy. All the imagery and monsters and spooks were totally in line with the series and were legitimately spooky. Even the plot wasn't boring. It kept moving at a really fast pace so you didn't have time to get bored which is important. Overall a great comedy for an old scooby-snacker like myself! ROOBY ROOBY ROOOOOOO! "},{"Title":"A Nice Surprise","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  After reading lots of bad reviews, I must say I had no desire to see Scooby-Doo, but the kids and I were bored and just went ahead and plopped down $15 for a matinee.  Believe it or not, we all had a good time and weren't disappointed!  It made for a fun afternoon at the theater for mom and her 15 and 12 year old. It's colorful, entertaining and just plain fun.  I'm not going to dissect every character, but I did think Shaggy and Scooby stole the show.  They were adorable together, and I don't know what those critics are talking about who say Scooby Doo's animation stinks.  The movie was WAY better than Attack of the Clones (snore), but not as good as Spider Man, if you're in the market for a family film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Give me some Mary Jane","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I will admit, I liked it. I am one of those Gen-Xers that grew up on Scooby and I enjoyed the movie.  Shaggy and Scooby were the stars, just like the series. The plot was simple and true to the series. I always enjoy watching the traps backfire too. I give it 8 out of 10. It is actually the highest rating I have given to any movie this year.My advice If you liked the series, watch the movie and enjoy. If you didn't like the series, stay clear.P.S. Bring you 8 year old because they will like it too.  "}{"Title":"Kids liked it;  I didn't.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The kids (9 & 10) liked the movie, but what do they know?  The only things I enjoyed were the voice and characterization of Scooby (right on), and to a lesser extent, the other actors in the foursome.  Velma certainly is the most interesting character.  Fred was funny just because he's such an egomaniac.  Daphne wasn't particularly interesting.I actually started to doze off during one of the chase-type scenes in the middle of the movie.  Not a good sign! "},{"Title":"surprisingly X-cellent!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"   Very fun with tiki sun. Velma (Linda Cardellini) is worth the ticket alone. I think its the glasses. Matthew Lillard should get an oscar for his dead-on shaggy. Where else can a real-life Fred be found but in Feddy Prince Jr? And SMG is always more than Buffy. Thanx for the good time guys! smooches!! you've made this Canadian boy happy "},{"Title":"More bearable than the first hour and a half of Episode 2","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  but hey, what isn't?  Lol.It really isn't as bad as I expected.So its not great, maybe not even good, but watching Matthew Lillard do shaggy is entertaining (he is dead on perfect).  Linda Cardellini does a good Velma as well (but Fred and Daphne...not good casting there).The use of old scooby gags (overly complicated traps that dont work right, but end up working etc.)do provide a bit of nostalgia. We took a group of kids for a birthday party and I will tell you that 6 yr olds will find it entertaining...which is all it was intended to do anyway now isn't it?  If you are expecting more...you are expecting too much and will be disappointed.   "},{"Title":"Just Plain Fun","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo is a very cute movie for kids and the old cartoon lovers. It is not serious at all and doesn't try to be. Critics have been bashing Scooby Doo when it obviously is made to just make you laugh and remember those cute cartoons. They say that Scooby Doo outdoes the whole cast but thats the whole point! Scooby is everything and the cast is support. Anyway, Scooby has a lot of humour and is the best children's movie this year. Scooby Doo is hysterical to most kids. Now, most people don't like the ending but I thought it couldn't have been smarter or more hilarious. Most of the cast also does a very good job. Matthew Lilliard did a FANTASTIC job. No one could have played Shaggy better. He got every single thing that was Shagggy correct. Linda Cartelliny did a good job. Not as perfect as Lilliard but it was done well. She is a very talented actress. Now, Sarah Michelle Gellar didn't do as well. Her performance was OK but not that good. She stayed in charactor half the time but was totally different half the time. She got the look down in which I was ver surprised. But, it sometimes seemed she was Buffy sometimes. Maybe thats just me. Lastly, is Freddie Prinze JR. He was so horrible it was sad. He just thought if he dyed his hair blonde then he would automaticly become Fred. He was just plain bad.But all in all, Scooby Doo was a pretty good movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Some people must have been watching the wrong cartoon","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"     This film was exactly a carbon copy of the old tv. series that i enjoyed so much as a kid.  I don't know what these other people are referring to when they write that this was not faithful to the cartoon.  Okay were you watching another cartoon that involved a dog named Scooby Doo and his crime fighting gang?     This was packed with memorable lines or phrases such as  Puppy Power! Zoinks! Jeekies I would have gotten away with it to if it weren't for you meddling kids. It was oozing with similarities to the series like the disgusting delights that Scooby and Shaggy enjoyed, the very little amount of clues that were gathered during a case, the elaborate plans to catch the bad guy that somehow managed to work.  It was all there, but some moviegoers failed to recognize it.     I highly suggest that everyone that made this false accusation tune into Cartoon Network sometime soon and rewatch an episode of Scooby Doo.  Pay close attention to this beloved toon of your childhood that entertained you so much because somewhere in the growing up process you forgot it.  (Also give Sarah Michelle Gellar a break she didn't have as many famous sayings and as interesting a character to work with.  You try to impersonate a girl that does nothing in the cartoon besides hanging out with fred and being nabbed all the time.)   "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  i'm 25, i grew up watching the scooby doo cartoons on tv. it's not as good as 'inspector gadget', but is one of the better live-action films based on an animated series. at first i thought i'd hate it because they didn't use a real dog to play scooby, but a computer-animated character that wasn't quite realistic but wasn't quite a cartoon either. thankfully the scenes with scooby are very funny, and young kids especially will laugh pretty hard at the stuff he does. as for the human characters, matthew lillard is dead-on brilliant as shaggy, likewise for linda cardellini in the role of velma. rowan atkinson rules and i don't get why they didn't use him more in the film. also, the highly underrated miguel nunez as 'voodoo guy' was a particularly awesome casting decision. the thing that annoyed me most about this otherwise enjoyable film was some of the stupid 'modern' lingo they had the characters use (shaggy step off, scooby, velma let's get JINKY with it, daphne straight up!) and the use of the band sugar ray in one scene (automatically dating the movie). a great effort from director raja gosnell, he did an incredible job seeing as how it's his first movie with a lot of fx and stuff. probably the weirdest thing about this movie is it was written by jamie gunn, who wrote the gory deviant b-movie classic tromeo and juliet just a few short years ago.  "},{"Title":"Where are you???","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Entertaining audience as well as movie.  I could hear reams of laughter from the kids in the audience, and one little boy in front of me said that's scary!.  Also heard some baritone guffaws from older men in the audience.  Usually I like a nice quiet theater, but this movie begged for people to respond!Let those who are too grown up criticize  the movie...but let those who even in old age love classics such as the Wizard of Oz go and have some real fun!    "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film is far from a masterpiece, but those of you wanting a nostalgic trip back to a misspent youth of countless hours watching these silly shows on television (the FIRST time!), this is a lot of fun.  The kids will enjoy it, I'm sure.  But this movie was written to have the silliness to appeal to the kids, but have the jokes written for the adults.  This is truly worth watching.  My advice is to watch this when kids will be less likely to attend.  An audience filled with anklebiters will deter from your enjoyment of this wonderful film.  But enough of that. So why do I rate this silly film so high?  Perhaps it's because it was indeed a nostalgic trip to yesteryear.  And it was, in a way.  It also joked at the hidden undertones of the series Fred's homosexuality, Shaggy's drug habit (I mean, he thinks he can talk to a dog,), Velma's lesbianism (though this isn't touched as much as Fred), Daphne and her damsel in distress bit, Daphne being used as Fred's cover-up, and the most evil character of the show is dealt with appropriately. I read other reviews on here prior to watching the film, and was expecting to be disappointed.  But as you have already guessed, I was not.  Anyone who expects to take Scooby Doo seriously needs help.  It's a comedy-mystery CARTOON, guys.  It's camp, which is why it is so fun.  And as you have read already, I'm sure, there is a burping/farting bit between Scooby and Shaggy. It goes on a bit long, and I could have lived without it, but the producers had to appeal to today's audience. Shaggy's character is done PERFECTLY.  They couldn't have chosen a better actor.  Almost all the cast was perfect.  Freddie Prinze, Jr. seems a little awkward as Fred, especially with that really bad blonde hair.  It looks very unnatural, but perhaps I am myself taking Scooby Doo too seriously here. Daphne's character change is an amusing look at the change of feminism through the ages.  But anyway, this is a fun, camp film, recreating Scooby Doo, having fun with it, and laughing at its plot holes at the same time. So stop reading this and go see it already! 8/10 "},{"Title":"great for what it is","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  anyone voting it poorly must realize that this is intended for pure entertainment, not a lasting message (just like the cartoon people). in this aspect, scooby ranks as one of the funnest movies i've viewed in a long time. great fun! "},{"Title":"The sum of all (cartoon) fears","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  In a movie that makes Casper look like Chinatown by comparison, there is very little I can think to say other than this might be the most horrifying (in a bad way) kids' movie ever made. The movie combines all the worst qualities of not only Casper, but also Inspector Gadget (the stunningly base commercialism) and, yes, Howard the Duck. Am I the only one who can't help seeing the similarities here? A human-like, talking animal hero helps his friends save the world from invading monsters.... I thought of old Howard instantly the first time I set eyes on these CGI beasties. There's even  a stunningly misplaced rock concert scene - with Sugar Ray's Mark McGrath lip-synching horribly. (Though I suppose we should be grateful for small favors in that McGrath isn't singing with Scooby.)This movie, stopping in theaters on its way from the cartoon screen to a Six Flags near you, is astonishingly crass in how every scene seems designed solely for the purpose of creating a theme-park attraction the obligatory stunt show (with personal 4-wheel mini dune buggys), the theme restaurant, the beach resort area, the horror-themed amusement park rides (I stopped counting how many different rides were momentarily shown), the nightclub with demon-head disco ball, etc. In truth, the sets looked precisely like they were designed to be easily and perfectly (not to mention cheaply) replicated for live attractions. And I couldn't help thinking that the main reason the effects weren't better (they really are not very good) is that good effects would be harder to convert to live shows.As for the plot, anyone who can't identify the real villain (and I don't mean the filmmakers, thought that's true too) by the end of his first scene isn't trying very hard. And for a supposed kids' movie, it's hard to find a scene that doesn't seem to strain itself trying to add something that's decidedly NOT for kids under 10. I tried to think of the last movie rated under PG-13 that was this bad; it's EASILY sub-Grinch (that movie, for all its faults, had at least a much more substantial level of craftsmanship going for it); Inspector Gadget is probably the last PG movie I could think of that sunk to this level. Rowan Atkinson is in this movie for no particular reason; his abilities aren't remotely hinted at, and ten thousand actors could have each given an identical performance.The theater where I saw this was populated mostly with kids under 8 and their parents; if the adults hadn't been restraining the kids from running around, I doubt that the movie could have held their attention very long. (And the occasional crying from smaller kids was hard to miss.)I felt like I'd been trapped in a Chuck E. Cheese run by Stalin. For what it's worth, only the efforts of Lillard and, to a lesser extent, Cardellini keep this movie from being a rock-bottom 1 - which I reserve for only the worst movie or two of the year.2 of 10 "}{"Title":"Funny Children's Movie","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" What eight years time can do. The dialogue and performances were not as entertaining nor as magical, in some places it was downright embarrassing and lame. While the basic storyline line and the predictable moral underpinning remained decent enough, the movie didn't really hold up well consistently. The sparkle just seemed to dull over time. Perhaps the nature of the animation industry has matured and grown up further or the audience requires more than just Saturday morning mind-numbing animated/live action adventure, or this reviewer has just grown or lost childlike innocence or Sarah Michelle Geller's Buffy persona has faded with time effectively allowing the more objective experience to wash over the screen. Regardless, animated movies, and live-action have progressed significantly in the past eight years. The bar is much higher. And this movie apparently hasn't held up well in the meantime.6/16/02 (8/10) As an adult without children, it may seem strange for me to make positive comments about this movie, but I enjoyed the mindless, fun entertainment. This movie is based on a cartoon and as such, its transformation onto the screen must be understood in that context. The characters and Scooby Doo appear as huge, live cartoon characters. The children in the theater audience as well as some of their parents seemed to enjoy the movie and some actually laughed. This movie really struck a cord with a early morning cartoon crowd which I believe is a great measure for success. I mean look at what the Sunday comics section is like. This movie version just glorifies the colorful, brilliance of live animation and what live actors can do when they try to imitate art, literally. Why can't critics judge this movie on the basis of what it really is? A cartoon of a million scenes. Thank goodness for live animators (I mean living and breathing actors and actresses). "},{"Title":"It's Scooby Doo, not Citizen Cane - give it a shot.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I've been reading about this movie on various movie/entertainment sites for the last 16 months. Very few, if any, gave it a positive review. Generally most thought Freddie Prinze Jr. was a poor (and I'm being kind here) choice to play Fred. It's not true, FP Jr. is a perfect choice, he's pretty much a cartoon anyway - why not put him in the lead? As a matter of fact the casting of this movie is some of the best I've ever seen. The cast 'gets it', it's only a cartoon come to life! Matt Lillard is a great Shaggy, Buffy is perfect as the femme fatale Daphne and Linda Cardellini couldn't be better as the brains, Velma. Actually, the casting of Linda Cardellini as Velma may be the only mistake of the movie, not because of her acting abilities (she's fantastic), no - she's TOO GOOD LOOKING! Anyway, if you want to see 90 minutes of funny, harmless, Saturday morning cartoon non sense give this movie a shot - you'll be surprised. But remember, it's only a cartoon aimed at the 6 - 13 year-old demo, that's all. Just have fun, because that's what this movie is. "},{"Title":"This is NOT a bad movie.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, first off, I'm 21 and was a big Scooby Doo fan as a youngster. When I first heard that they were making a live action Scooby Doo, the first thing I though was, oh no, they're going to ruin it. Then I heard that Freddie Prinze and Sarah Michelle Gellar were cast... and I knew it was over. But wait... I knew I had to at least give this movie a chance. So I went opening day. There were about 10 other people my age in attendence and scores upon scores of little kids. I can tell you, the kids were definately entertained. Other than the laughter (which there were lots), they were quiet and seemed very enthused. As for me, I laughed my butt off through most of the movie. The movie had a very cartoony feel, which really made it all work. From Scooby, who after a few minutes I fully accepted as Scooby, to the clothing, sound effects and such, it was a live action cartoon. As for the acting. Matthew Lillard was Shaggy Incarnate, it was almost scary how much like Shaggy he was. Linda Cardellini was also very good as Velma, and by the end of the movie, she was perfect. Even Freddie and Sarah pulled off their roles adequately, but were definately overshadowed by Lillard and Cardellini. There were a lot of homage to the original cartoon, from plot devices to catch phrases. In closing, this is one of the best cartoon to live action adaptations I've seen. They managed to make a movie that kids seem to enjoy and one that I could go to and enjoy myself. Oh, I also enjoyed it when I saw it again the next day. "},{"Title":"Let  yourself  enjoy it","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Greetings all, I just woke up from last night's slumber and decided I'd pay a visit to my home away from home, the Internet Movie Database. Last night I had the slight displeasure of having to endure 1 and 1/2 hours of scooby doo, with my little sister chuckling madly beside me.The experience, however, wasn't a complete loss, because I witnessed something truly wonderful. Last night as I sat in the movie theater waiting for Scooby doo to begin, I was knocked out of my socks when the Warner Bros. logo filled the screen and the trailer to Harry Potter and The Chamber of Secrets began to roll. It must of been a minute, a minute and a half at most, but for those 90 seconds I sat there wide-eyed and mouth agape. I could not believe that the images that have been playing repeatedly in my head since reading the second harry potter book, were brought to life on the gigantic movie screen.In the brief trailer, I caught a few fleeting glimpses at what promises to be a spectacular event. Dobby looks amazing, frail, skinny, malnourished, all traits that you would expect in a servant of the horrible Malfoy family. The memorable dueling scene between Draco and Harry had the latter boy flying through the air in an act of acrobatic excellence that would make Kerri Strug gasp. Seeing a slightly older Ron and Harry taking the reins of Mr. Weasley's enchanted Ford Anglia and almost being run down by the Hogwarts express made me jump in my seat. And catching a quick glace of Kenneth Branagh transformed into Gilderoy Lockheart made me wish I had the power to speed up time, so I could make the half year that separates me from this movie go by in the blink of an eye.The trailer isn't all fun and fancy though, towards the last half of it, the mood began to darken as we were taken deep into the forbidden forest to spy on Aragog and his fellow spiders and then magically transported into the chamber itself where we hear the voice of one Tom Marvalo Riddle, taunting Harry. The trailer also included scenes of Harry conversing with Riddle's talking diary, Mcgonagal explaining the legend of the chamber to her class, and Harry, Ron and Hermione in the second floor girl's bathroom, with draughts of polyjuice potion being brought to their lips. Unfortunately the scene cut away before we get to see the potion take effect. All in all it was an excellent trailer, one of my all time favorites along with the theatrical trailers for Life as a House, and Josie and the Pussycats. If I were to rank it on a scale of 1 - 10, I'd give a 37. Everyone here who is dying to get an early peek at Chamber of Secrets, should go buy a Scooby ticket.For me seeing this trailer was more rewarding than the flick and it seems unfair that we get to see the trailer for free, but we had to pay to see the movie. I think it should have been the other way around, because after seeing it once I know that I'd definitely pay to see this trailer again.Ever since the trailer for Life as a House brought tears to my eyes a year ago, I've been saying that there should be awards given out for the best trailers. This trailer is a perfect example of something that deserves an award.Oh yeah by the way, Scooby Doo isn't as bad a movie as I made it sound, Matthew Lillard was awesome as Shaggy, and Linda Cardellini did the impossible and actually made Velma hot! As for Fred and Daphne, all I can say is Blah! Go for the trailer but you might as well stick around for the movie it's pretty good, if you let yourself enjoy it that is. But if you go in looking for an Oscar winning epic, just go home.Zoinks and Chinkies!  "},{"Title":"A positive review...crazy huh?","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Hey, I liked it. I thought it was fun. Maybe the most fun I've had in the theaters in a long while. I was never the biggest Scooby fan, but if I had to guess after reading some of these reviews, that was to my advantage. Personally, I think there are some movies that should not be analyzed by theyre general quality of the production, but by the general entertainment value of the film. Scooby Doo, I think, is one of them. I really enjoyed the movie. It was just plain fun. I just thought that it wouldn't hurt to put up a positive review.   "},{"Title":"Fun, entertaining, and True to the classic cartoons.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have always been a fan of Scooby Doo, and now that I have two daughters, I have become a fan all over again right along with them.  I was very excited about seeing this film, but before I saw it, I started reading the reviews in here.  Boy, did I get nervous, not many good ones in here.But today, I braved it, and went to make up my own mind.  And am I ever glad I did.Scooby Doo has not strayed far from the original cartoon classics. Many fans are adults today, and they must have expecetd a more mature version of Scooby Doo, kinda like The Brady Bunch movie spoofs, but many have forgotton, that the main target are KIDS!  And I found the film to be VERY true to the cartoons that we all fell in love with.The slapstick between Scooby & Shaggy, the mystery, and all the fun were right there.  PLUS, I 'm glad to see that I'm not the ONLY one who found Scrappy to be a brat puppy who irritated the FART out of me.Matt was just INCREDIBLE as Shaggy, I really don't think anyone could have done any better.  Velma was also incredible realistic and true to the original character.  Only one other person could have pulled it off and that is Jenny Garfolio (spelling?)Fred and Dafney were ok, but not the best choices for the film.And the special effects that breathed life into the Scoob, WOW, AWESOME!!!! Just INCREDIBLE!!!I really look forward to ANOTHER Scooby Doo film.  I LOVED it. "},{"Title":"It tries, but in the ends, falls flat","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I expected (from being a Scooby cartoon fan for some years) to think this movie not only as the worst movie of the year, but the worst movie of the decade so far.  And at times I wanted to feel that way, but I realize that the film did at least try to do what it could in the live-action from cartoon movie genre.  There are even some convincing moments (so to speak) and funny ones from Lillard and the computerized Scooby, but like the vein that this film came from- The Flintstones 1 and 2, Josie and the Pussycats, the cartoon versions are much appreciated over real (an exception in the Ninja Turtles movie, but that's another company).  Kids will like it, I suppose, but they will vary too; it's somewhat surprising that for a PG movie they dig in some weed jokes and that kids will most likely be oblivious to them unless they've gone through the DARE program Shaggy's love interest is Mary Jane, there's one shot where the mystery van is shown to have smoke coming out the top (inside Shag and Scoob are cooking eggplant), Led Zeppelin shirt, more junk food than could meet the eye.  I don't mind, personally, although I personally would also not see this movie again.  C+ "},{"Title":"cheap and mediocre","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Cheap and mediocre adequeately summarize this movie. Everything is cheap and mediocre here a dull plot, lifeless humorless characters, crude special effects. The dialogue and script seems to be meant for 1 year old kids, perhaps to keep the feel of a cartoon. However, incomprehensibly, gross humor is inserted at places. All in all, a total waste of time.  "},{"Title":"What Happened????","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Having grown up watching Scooby Doo cartoons and even recently watching the cartoon movies that have come about, I can honestly say that I was most disappointed in the finished product. I'm not a big fan of Matthew Lillard, but when casted next to Prinze and the rest of the cast, he outshines them all. The casting for this movie should've been better picked. Come on folks, these actors/actresses did not do the actual characters any justice. If not for Scooby and Shaggy this movie would be a total loss. Today's children will probably enjoy this one, but those of us from the old school will sit back and say What Happened? The only other good thing about this movie was the plot twist involving Scrappy. If you wanna see it wait for the video store to start renting it, otherwise don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"An entertaining, yet sometimes lame, movie","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  From the comments I've read here about Scooby-Doo, it seems as if people were expecting the movie to be a spectacular work of art. You've got to remember that this is a movie aimed for children and, to an extent, teens. Now, I'm 14 and I enjoyed Scooby-Doo. I don't know, maybe it's just because I'm crazy for everything Matt Lillard because he's one of my favorite actors. Oh, and speaking of Matthew, he was dead-on as Shaggy. I can't express in words how awesome he was. The animated Scooby was impressive, and a few times, I actually started to believe that Scooby was a real dog...until I came back to reality. There are a few laugh-out-loud moments, but nothing to rave about. Matt stole the movie, hands down. The other performance that I liked was Linda Cardellini's Velma. She did a very good job of looking and acting like the character the way she spoke, the way she talked, and I'm impressed with the fact that she chopped off her super-long locks to have the real helmet hair. As you can probably tell, I've been telling my friends that Matthew and Linda are the best parts of the movie.A few complaints, though. Freddie Prinze Jr. as Fred? Although it wasn't a terrible casting decision, I wouldn't call it a good one either. Either he didn't do anyone research on the role as his close friend and co-star, Matt, did, or he just didn't have the knack to play the character. And can I just say that his blonde hair looked horrible. Sarah Michelle wasn't bad as Daphne and her goal to be the one who saves the day is a cute little addition. As for Shaggy's love interest, Mary Jane? I wasn't into the story. But, Matthew did a good job of making that subplot as entertaining as it could get. The actually mystery that the gang is supposed to solve made me wonder what the writers were smoking until I realized that this is Scooby-Doo and they're supposed to run into all this weird stuff. And I've got one more complaint. Two words Scrappy Doo. That idea was just out of nowhere and pure crap.Anyway, call me crazy, but I would pay to see the movie a second time, but only to see Matthew and Linda's performances again. And, again, call me crazy, I will be buying the movie when it comes out on DVD. I'd give the movie 7.5/10 stars. If you're deciding whether to watch it, I would recommend it.  "}{"Title":"Quite funny and entertaining...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Took my 5 year old daughter (the movie nut) and wasn't bad not the greatest, but not bad either. However if your the type of parent that is offended or disgusted with a parady that plays on flatulence or belching (like my wife), then I would not recommend going. Not that there is a lot, just one scene, but its quite a scene. I thought it was funny, haven't scene a flatulence scene like it since Blazing Saddles.I have to hand it that Matthew Lillard really pulled off Shaggy perfectly and the movie was basically like watching one of the cartoons.  Besides Scooby and Shaggy, Velma was the next best character.  Freddy Prince Jr. as Fred though, I mean come on get a clue!  He's not beefy enough, and Fred never had any vanity issues.The Mystery Machine van was pretty cool, and all the old lingo from the toon was there, Zoinks, Jeegies, etc.  Go and have fun with it! "},{"Title":"surprisingly X-cellent!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Very fun with tiki sun. Velma (Linda Cardellini) is worth the ticket alone. I think its the glasses. Matthew Lillard should get an oscar for his dead-on shaggy. Where else can a real-life Fred be found but in Feddy Prince Jr? And SMG is always more than Buffy. Thanx for the good time guys! smooches!! youve made this canadian boy happy "},{"Title":"Great movie for kids","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I took my daughter ( a Scooby fan) to see this movie, and she loved it. Granted, she is only 3 years old, but she clapped at the end. I was always a Scooby-Doo fan of the animated series, and I think they did a good job with this movie, the plot was ok, I would have prefered something a bit creepier, but that's ok. I mean a haunted fun-house/island is pretty typical, there is only so much you can do with that. The special effects were great, and I really didn't think that I was going to like the digital Scooby, but I quickly warmed up to him, especially in some of the touching scenes between him and Shaggy. I do think that Daphne and Fred were mis-cast. I would have preferred to have seen Jennifer Aniston as Daphne, (she's got the Daphne voice too) and I have no idea who would be Fred, but anyone would have done better than Freddie Prinze Jr. The inside stoner jokes were funny too, as Shaggy's love interest was named Mary Jane and they played Pass the Dutchie when Shaggy and Scooby were cooking in the van (you could see smoke come out of the top). "},{"Title":"The kids liked it...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I took the kids to see this.  The theater was packed with families just like mine.  They all seemed to enjoy it, which was the point, right?  Anyway, it's basically a live-action version of any of the Scooby-Doo cartoon movies (which I have seen because of my children!).If you have kids, take them to this movie.  If you don't watch Scooby-Doo on Cartoon Network and don't have kids, then skip it.Also, Daphne was apparently replaced by Buffy the Vampire Slayer. "},{"Title":"Watch it for what it is!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Everyone seems to think that this movie is no good.  You got to remember, it is not a serious movie,  it is a KIDS movie on a CARTOON!  I thought that the movie was played right to a tee with the cartoon.  The actors did a great job potraying who they were.  The plot was just as corney as it would be if it were a cartoon.  The movie was fantastic if you watch it for what it is. It is not going for any oscars or emmys. it is just a movie for kids. "},{"Title":"Scooby-Doo is the best movie of 2002!!!!!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby-Doo is a great movie all the way around. I took my daughter (9 years old) and her friend who is 7 years old. They laughed alot and enjoyed the movie. Myself and my husband enjoyed it also. Go in with an open mind and let yourself be a child again! It is worth watching! I will for sure buy it whenever it becomes available on DVD!  "},{"Title":"Blondes, cleavage, big boobs, and sexual sublimity all rolled in to ONE Scooby Doo","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Who made this movie? Somebody from MTv obviously.  I noticed lots of pretty woman dressed in bikinis, AND, pretty woman wearing almost nothing at all.  Are you SURE this movie is aimed at little kids? Well hell, I'm not complaining, it was good that there was something to distract me from this films cliché acting.  Now don't get me wrong, little kids will enjoy this, and I'll admit that I too enjoyed it, BUT there were too many stereotypes.  The actor that played Shaggy though, did do the best job than the rest of the cast, and I actually didn't mind that Scooby was CGI.  2 1/2 stars out 5.   "},{"Title":"Matthew Lillard was the perfect Shaggy","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The movie was pretty middle of the road as far as kid movies go, but Matthew Lillard sounded exactly like Shaggy from the original cartoons. The other characters played their parts well but none sounded quite so close to the 'real' thing. "},{"Title":"I loved it!!!!!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I grew up watching the Scooby Doo cartoons. They were the highlight of my childhood. I loved it when Shaggy and Scooby would describe the food they were eating. I just saw the live action movie today. I loved it. It was just like watching the reruns of the old cartoon. They entire cast was great. The girl who played Velma looked just like the cartoon character. The movie was wonderful. It is a laugh riot. "},{"Title":"ok, not great, good for kids","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Only people like me, the true Scooby fan, could think this movie could have been better. It had a pretty good storyline, considering it can't be easy to turn what would usually be a half hour show into an hour and a half long movie. some of the characters, i could completely see as the cartoons becoming real people. freddie prinze jr., i wasn't sure about as i went into the theater. But when i got to watching it, I realized that that was completely how fred would be if he was real egotistical, god's greatest gift in his mind, etc. sarah michelle gellar did an ok job, but that character just wasn't daphne. linda cardellini was good as velma, but again, that character just wasn't quite velma. matt lillard did great as shaggy, even with the voice. i hope casey kasem is proud of the good job matt did, since casey's shoes can't be too easy to fill. scott innes, the guy who voices scooby on all the new scooby movies that are coming out on video, is ok, but not great. didn't he ever watch scooby? if he did, he would know scooby doesn't start every word with an r. anyway, the plot was cute, some of the characters were true to the show, while others could have been a little better. the villain is hilarious. all in all, it's decent, even to a die hard scooby person like me. and by the way, the references to shaggy being a pothead are SOOOO not nice! "}{"Title":"Geez People, It wasn't THAT bad","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It certainly wasn't the worst film of the year. (That distinction goes to Van Wilder). The movie was very faithful to the cartoon, and quite fun to watch. While it was no Citizen Kane, it certainly wasn't horrible. Coulda had a better casting choice than SMG and FPJr, but they weren't that terrible. And Lillard's performance was spot on. And new comer Verdinelli (sp?) did a great job as Velma. And Scooby was funny too. I loved the plot twist at the end! All in all, I give it 7 out of 10. (Lost a few points because of the Kung Fu Daphne. I just didn't buy it.) Otherwise, the movie was very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Not Citizen Kane but fun nevertheless","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo was an enjoyable, check your brain at the door kind of movie. You don't go in expecting cinematic brilliance only to be entertained. By that standard the movie is a success.Matthew Lillard was great. I can't imagine how someone could be so close to the cartoon character. He really was Shaggy. The CG Scooby was fabulous, much better than the CG interactions between humans and animation in much of Attack of the Clones. I never realized that Sarah Michelle Gellar was that attractive. I am glad to see that somebody else felt that Scrappy Doo was too annoying for words also. The theatre I saw it in had lots of families and was jammed. They seemed to enjoy it too.The plot was thin, even more so than those of the old cartoons. The writers also didn't seem to like the characters, especially Fred and Daphne. Of course, the characters in the old cartoon were two-dimensional, it was a cartoon, dammit! I never felt that Fred was particularly slow-witted especially when compared with some of the other cartoon characters of the period like Allen from Josie and the Pussycats. Daphne was no more a self-absorbed airhead than Betty or Veronica from the old Archie comics. I don't know what the writers of the movie were trying to do except some kind of adolescent attempt to show how smart they are. When you are re-creating an existing set of characters, you should be loyal to the characters as they are understood. If you don't like that traditional portrayal, create your own characters. Otherwise, it's like having Hamlet tap-dance.This movie was significantly better than the Rocky and Bullwinkle Movie, a cinematic travesty which should result in the death penalty for all connected with it down to the caterers.All in all, 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A FAITHFUL ADAPTATION OF THE CARTOON","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  People you seem to be going into this with the expectations of Memento, Fargo, or some other critically acclaimed masterpiece.  It's not--it's a kids movie.  Not a Brad Bunch-ish take filled with lots of inside dirty jokes, but an honest to gosh kids movie.  Like Spy Kids or The Great Mouse Detective.  That's all.  Kids are the target audience, and they will like it.  The film accurately captures the feel and plot of the cartoon (complete with the brainwash room, etc.) And Sarah, Freddie, Linda, and Matt ALL fill out their parts PERFECTLY. They're doing a live action cartoon, not Shakespeare for cryin' out loud. All in all, Scooby-Doo is great children's fun.  "},{"Title":"Got to hate it, hate it, hate it.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby-Doo was (is) an endearing cartoon. Something about it's lovable characters and virtually see-through plots gives it room in my heart.This movie is garbage! You can say that with a French accent if it makes you feel better... It is directed at the juvenile crowd, of which I am no longer a member, however, the mixture of adult entendre and fart jokes just goes too far off the path of what Scooby-Doo is all about. A cut-up and disjointed story line confuses from the beginning as the friends all split up and then rejoin two years later. In the theater, it's 5 minutes later and the story so weak that the viewer can't tell the difference! Weak!The voice-overs are very canned standing in a jungle atmosphere and the only sounds are the voices of the actors sounding as if they are in a living room. No ambiance, no echo. Boo Hiss. On the brighter side, the animation and blending of live action and animation are state of the art. Very seamless for the most part. The characters are very well costumed and coifed and surprisingly believable.Music is very good. Many original tracks and very well timed.I recommend this only for those extremely bored on Tuesday night (if your local theater gives a discount or if there's nothing left to rent).Three stars *** (One for the three laughs I got, one for the excellent casting and chipped in one extra for the excellent animation) "},{"Title":"Roobie, Roobie-Doo!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Yes, the actors do a good job impersonating cartoon teenage characters... Yes, this film's not all bad, but the cast and extras are wasted in something $90 million could have made more sense in depicting, other than this non-scary (not even remotely scary, considering the characters are based on cartoon ones) mish-mash.  And what did all those millions buy, except for glow-in-the-dark painted sets (all two-and-a-half of them), and a plot worse than Lookers (itself a film begging to be picked on the rest of its cinematic life!)?Keep watching Cartoon Network, and maybe they'll air this big-screen mess on the smaller screen it was meant for in the first place. "},{"Title":"Ok, color me 5-years-old","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I adore Scooby and I adored this movie...what can I say? I'm 25-years-old and yet I'm so taken by the concept of Scooby Doo. I mean, I've been ready for this movie for a long time. Sarah Michelle Gellar was excellent as Daphne...it was so strange seeing SMG as someone nearly defenseless. While Freddie Prinze Jr. is just in no way Fred, Linda Cardellini was a great Velma. They really proved the characters old-school style, keeping them as close to the old cartoon as possible. Which brings me to Matthew Lilliard. Could they have picked a better Shaggy? It's like the role was completely made for him! I give the movie 10 Scooby Snacks "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Overall, this is not a good movie and the children may like it.  This was a waste of time, film, and the actors talents are completely wasted.  You would think they would have come up with something better.  Rent the videos.  "},{"Title":"Family comedy at its finest!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I had the privilege to see this movie last night.  Normally I try not to go into movies with expectations or pre-judgments on how I think the movie is going to be, but I couldn't help but think this was not going to be very good.  However, after the first 30 minutes my opinion changed.  It was very funny and very similar to the cartoon.  Matthew Lillard was perfect ion his role as Shaggy, and the rest of the characters did a pretty good job as well.  I have read several comments about this movie here on IMBD and I am baffled.  Obviously people either don't have a sense of humor and have never seen the cartoon.  Honestly, I cannot imagine why someone would walk out of the movie.  This is great comedy that the whole family can enjoy.  The movie makes you laugh without having to swear, make dirty jokes, or make obscene or sexual references/gestures.I gave this movie 9 out of 10, the reason I did not give this great movie a 10 was because I was not very satisfied with the ending. "},{"Title":"I Liked It Myself-Unexpected Ending","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was surprisingly funny and entertaining.  The plot did not make sense at first but certainly made sense toward the end.  And what a surprise ending it was!!!  Good for the young and young at heart.  If you are not young or young at heart, you may be disappointed.  But for the rest of us, it is a nice summer flick. "},{"Title":"Wonderbra Fashion Show","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I took my fifteen year old son and eleven year old daughter to see the movie.  We heard children laughing the first ten or fifteen minutes when the movie was classic Scooby Doo.  As the story went on, it was obvious that the target audience, adult males, was not present.  There was an abundance of skin, but zilcho fun-loving mystery.  There was evil spirit possession, soul stealing, scary monsters that were REAL -- and even Velma was reduced to cleavage.  BOMB! "}{"Title":"Let's get jinky with it!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was not looking forward to this movie.  I loved Scooby-doo as a kid and was really afraid the movie makers would treat it horribly.  I only went because some friends dragged me along.  They told me it would either be enjoyable by being good, or by being so bad that we could laugh at it.  And I LOVED it!!!!  To quote Linda Cardellini, The script didn't take itself too seriously, but it didn't make fun of itself too much.  The characters really filled the roles, even Daphne/Buffy who I originally thought was the worst cast.  The ending completely took me by surprise and made the entire world make sense again.  This isn't just a kid's movie.  It's smart enough that everyone will enjoy it.   "},{"Title":"Just plain fun!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The movie is not a masterpiece and it never was meant to.  It is just plain fun.  I grew up on Scooby-Doo and the movie does just as good a job of entertaining as the cartoon. The plot isn't that important. All you need is a fairly impossible mystery, and an villain that could never have really pulled it off. For people who hated Scrappy this is the best way possible for him to appear in the movie.  The characters were well played accept Fred.  Freddie Prinze Jr. just wasn't right for the part.  When you get out of theater you will have had a good time and that's it. No serious revelation to think deeply about just a good film for kids and other scooby fans. "},{"Title":"Let's be frank","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Here's what Scooby Doo is. The good, the bad, and the ugly...This film was absolutely all it needed to be. Director Raja Gosnell captured the silly quirkiness and hilarity that the cartoon had. The opening scene the Mystery team i capturing a ghost and the way in which the ghost was portrayed was right out of the cartoon. The ghost was beleveable enough to be spooky but silly enough for us all to realize it's a human being in disguise. The flashbacks of suspects, the scrappy scooby relationship, the scooby snacks, the shaggy scooby relationship and reactions to spooks were all right from the cartoon.This is not a movie for adults to laugh at. It's a movie for children to smile and enjoy. (oh yeah and laugh as well) And boy did they ever.The performances FANTASTIC AND AWFUL. Matthew Lillard obviously put a lot of work in to shaggy and I commend him for it. Fantastic performance. His best work to date. Velma was good. She captured all Velma needed to be. Rowan Atkinson was fair. I'm still seeing too much of Mr Bean in his characters but he's getting there. Sara Michelle Gellar went in and out of her character. The sad thing is she was totally Daphne when she wasn't speaking. When she'd open her mouth, I felt at points I was watching Scream 2 again. There were moments where she was true to her character and in the moment.I enjoyed the CGI scooby and scrappy. They were believeable and right out of the cartoon. Bravo on all effects!Freddie Prinze Junior was absolutely horrific in this movie. I hope he reads this because a performance like that is an embarrassment to the studio, the crew, the audience, and his fellow cast members. I felt like he for some reason thought that Fred meant just play Freddie Prinze with blonde hair. Look what Matt Lillard did for Shaggy.... I felt like Fred was trapped in another romantic comedy somewhere. There was no life or dimensions to his character and it just appeared like he wanted to be somewhere else. Don't quit your day job Prinze. Do your homework next time...All critics out there, please cut Scooby Doo some slack. It was true to the cartoon and kids will enjoy it.It didn't need a fascinating plot or twists and turns. It just wanted to make us see the goofy and cartoonish lives of the Mystery gang and Scooby Doo!Pilk's Grade B + "},{"Title":"The near-perfect mesh of all Scooby-Doo media.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby-Doo.  He's had six or more separate series, a few older movies, four newer animated features, and now this.  He's had a nephew, lots of relatives, and met plenty of famous people.  Unfortunately, up until lately, their villains have all used robots, luminescent paint, and holographic projectors with reel-to-reel tape recorders to scare away those who might otherwise snoop around ... save our heroic Scooby-Doo Detective Agency from Coolsville, known in adulthood as Mystery, Inc. (and only one was ever Red Herring).  However, lately, they've brushed with the supernatural on a nearly regular basis zombies, cat-people, aliens, and witch's ghosts ... a much-anticipated break from the campiness of the old shows.To combine all these elements would take one heck of a script, a near-perfect casting call, and much much more.  And Warner Bros. pulled it off.Having seen every episode of each series at least once, and owning each new movie, I think I can safely congratulate the WB team.  I had my doubts, especially when modern slang was spoken by the Gang, but seeing the movie belayed those doubts.  If you're a fan of everything SD, like me, go see this.  Take the kids, or whatever.  You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll fall in love all over again. "},{"Title":"Enjoy it for what it's worth! Stop the harsh criticism...","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  You would think some of these people are commenting on The Shawshank Redemption or The Godfather.  It's Scooby Doo...what did you expect?  If you've ever seen the original cartoons I think you'll be pleasantly surprised how this movie turns out.  Sure, I went into the movie with low expectations but I ended up enjoying it.  I'll have to agree with the rest of you that only Shaggy & Velma played their roles up to par while Daphne and Fred just didn't get it.  This doesn't hurt the movie though because there's so much going on.  It's very fast paced and never boring.  Scooby always adds his fun when the movie slows down a bit.  Go see this movie if you're a fan of Scooby Doo and as long as you bring your same mindset as you do when you're watching the cartoons you'll be ok ) "},{"Title":"A Laugh RIOT!!! Almost a 10....one main flaw","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie would've been a 10 had it not been for TOTALLY screwing up Fred and Scrappy. Other than that, the movie was flawless! Scooby, while not life-like and Shaggy were both DEAD SOLID PERFECT!!!  They're the main focus of the television show anyway and while Velma was great and Daphne was almost great (the Kung-Fu nonsense was total garbage, but otherwise perfect) the total slandering and debotchery of Fred and Scrappy can be overlooked because of the others' performance. While there is no way that this movie will gross as much as Spidey or Star Wars, it was more enjoyable and fun (this is coming from somebody whose all-time favorite movie is Star Wars).Completely makes up for the retarded Flintstones movies and the good, but WAY too serious Josie and the Pussycats movie. What's next, Jetsons?See it!! Love it and then see it again!! "},{"Title":"Fair flick, but jokes may be too mature.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  First i'd like to say, i'm not a huge viewer of the original cartoon show, so I don't know now accurate it is.With that being said, Scooby-Doo had it's high and low (very low) points. Highs?  The kids from Mystery Inc. poke fun at themselves and their mannerisms quite a few times, which shows they don't take themselves *too* seriously.  Linda Cardellini as Velma what can I say?  Personally, she's better looking than Sarah Michelle Gellar and actually appears to be a functional part of the story (just wait 'till she takes off that sweater). Also, the dynamic buddy thing between Shaggy and Scooby was incredible, they are obviously the focus of the movie.  The cameo of Sugar Ray and the surprise appearence of a certain character with puppy power mid-way in the movie was totally unexpected and most of the older audience widened their eyes!But, fortunately the highs out-number the lows Freddie Prinze and Sarah Michelle Gellar as Fred and Daphne, respectively these people were totally miscast.  The fact that they play off the notion that Shaggy is a pothead shouldn't be in a PG film.  The gratuatous cameo of Pamela Anderson (for no reason).All in all, a decent flick.  Quite a few drug and sex references will probably go over kids' heads, but provide a good divurgence from the eye candy over-load (except for Linda Cardalleni, who looks great!).  Shaggy and Scooby are great, but get ready to roll your eyes at Daphne and Fred. Rooby rooby roo! "},{"Title":"Great family movie","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  With all the anticipation surrounding the release of Scooby Doo, I had decided that this movie would either be really good or really, really bad. I'm happy to say that I thought it was good.It's a very campy movie, strictly adhering to the cartoon version. I think it did it justice. Kids will love it while adults will have many laughs that go over the kids heads.Finding out who dun it at the end is hilarious! "},{"Title":"A very good movie","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  At first when I heard Scooby Doo was going to be a movie, I was about time.  When I heard Sarah Michelle Gellar was going to be in it, I was even more excited since I am a big fan of both.  But this isn't the reason why I liked the movie.  This movie had great casting.  All of the actors played their roles to the fullest, making this good. While watching it, I had many laughs.  Many people don't want to admit that they didn't laugh, but I bet they did.  Scooby was realistic, even though at times he seemed faked, but people did a good job creating him.  All characters had great chemistry with Scooby, it actually looked like they were handling a real dog.  This is a good movie that everybody can enjoy, it has a unique plot, good casting, many laughs, and excellent effects.  If you are a Scooby fan check this movie out, if your not, you'll still enjoy it. A very funny movie for all ages!  "},{"Title":"Letdown","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I took my 9 year old son and 4 year old daughter to see Scooby Doo. I grew up in the 70s and watched Scooby Doo faithfully, and my kids are the same today. Except for a few shining moments, the movie was a pure letdown. Matthew Lillard as Shaggy and Linda Cardalini as Velma were EXCELLENT recreations of the originals, and both will undoubtedly be remembered as the saving graces to this future flop. Freddie Prinze and Sarah Michelle Geller's careers will suffer due to bad casting.The plot started off as a mystery, but got lost as an action movie. The ending was miserable (I won't give it away).My son as well as all the other under 12s LOVED the flatulence and belching contest between Shaggy and Scooby.All in all, a total letdown. "}{"Title":"Made for the fans!!!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  HOOOORRRRAAAAYYYYYY!!!!!! SCOOBY DOO kicked ass!!!!! wow, i really, really loved this movie. it was made especially for fans of the show, which i am. there were many funny parts, relating to character speculations of the show. The cast (i know many people doubted their talents) was perfect. Linda Cardellini was the big surprise for me, i loved her as velma!!! Lillard was great, as shown in commercials, Gellar is very good with Daphne, even Prinze Jr. was good/ok. and im just goin to say that anyone who hates scrappy will love this movie!!!The perfect re-creation of my fav. cartoon of all time - 10/10  "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I had to write mostly in response to all of the negative reviews that Scooby Doo has been receiving here. If you are inclined to see Scooby Doo, don't let any negative reviews turn you off to it.The cartoon series was never deep, but this movie does add some depth to the characters by exploring their relationships (as much as possible in what is essentially an action/comedy). The movie is aimed squarely at those who have grown up with all iterations of the cartoon. There are elements and plot devices taken from the original Scooby Doo Where Are You? as well as the cartoons with celebrity guest stars and the Scrappy Doo cartoons. It is cleverly devised to play on your fond memories of watching this stuff as a kid.That being said, it does pull out a few modern movie devices from the current state of its genre, which is hardly surprising. Fred and Daphne are reinvented slightly to create a group dynamic that fits the movie. Shaggy, Scooby, and Velma are exactly as you would imagine them. Shaggy and Velma are given expanded personalities in ways that work pretty well.  Shaggy's character in particular has a lot of heart, which holds the movie together very well.I honestly do not know what a six-year old would think of this movie, but I would recommend it to other Gen X'ers who grew up watching the cartoon when they came home from elementary school every day. If you liked the cartoon, you should find this movie fairly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Not just a kid movie!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  We saw this movie on opening day and we were pretty hard critics.  After all, my three sons (8, 5, and 4) live for the TV series and movies and as children we watched them too (33 and 34).  We were not disappointed.  The acting for each character cannot really be judged because there was no way to match a living person with them, OOPS... I mean all but Matthew Lillard who was as close to Shaggy as can even be possible.  Scooby Doo at first seemed to be fake (how can they match up to OUR Scooby?!?!?) but within minutes he was just as real as the people playing their parts.  The hardest shoes to fill were those belonging to Velma...the animated version tried a little too hard to make her NOT Daphne... and Linda Cardellini made her someone you could see as a person and not just a walking computer with glasses.  Sarah Michelle Gellar and Freddie Prinze Jr. made Fred and Daphne belong to them.  I can say that I can't picture anyone else playing their parts.  Without giving away a part of the movie, there is a part in the movie that shows that they know each other very well in real life.  I guess I should take the end of this message to say that our boys just loved the movie to death and can't wait for Santa to bring them the DVD for Christmas. Now,  that shows that it was awesome if it was added to Santa's list before we could even get to our car after the movie. "},{"Title":"For the fans","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was made with fans of Scooby-Doo in mind. It has in jokes galore about the things that you never thought about until you got older, like why fred always goes with Daphne when they split up, and other stuff I wont give away. The Scrappy Doo appearance was genius. Kids may enjoy this movie as they would the cartoon, and not realize that it is a spoof of the cartoon, while still staying mostly true to it. It does to Scooby what the Brady Bunch movies did to that show. If you like watching the cartoon for fun, even though the stories are horrible at times, and just enjoy the absurdity of it all, this movie grasps that and makes fun of it at the same time. Your average movie goer might not get the jokes though, it requires a good bit of scooby knowledge to understand, but I'm glad they did it for the fans and not to please the masses. The only thing missing was a scene where shaggy and scooby fool the monsters by pretending to be waiters or barbers or something. They did that a lot in the cartoon but not in the movie. The whole scrappy thing makes up for it though. As I said, kids will enjoy it just as they do the cartoon, but I think it was made especially for older people that are big fans of scooby and love it for how absurd it is, and how fun it is when you realize it makes no sense at times. "},{"Title":"It was very bad","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went to go see this movie a the camp that I work at and I found it to be very bad and soulless. I found it not very faithful to the cartoon in some areas but the CGI Scooby was okay to me. The only thing I felt was unnecessary was the rest of the CGI. Those demon things looked like crap and they made some really big mistakes in the first couple minutes that they teach you in film school. In the airport when they are all about to go to Spooky Island, you can see the microphone dangling overhead. If you get the chance to see the movie in the theater again look for that. I don't know if it was just that the projection guy moved it down too far but I saw dangling microphones and I sank lower in my seat. The drug refrences kept me awake because we all know Shaggy is a pothead. Anyway, thought it was a very bad movie and I hope that they do not make a sequel.     "},{"Title":"ok","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo is OK.  That's it.  It's not as bad as the critics say and is not as good as some other summer movies I've seen this year.  The cast, with the exception of Freddie Prinze Jr., seems up to the task of having their characters come to life.  However the mystery itself is weak and the revelation may offend Scooby Doo fans, including myself. "},{"Title":"Updated nostalgia ?  uhmmm.....","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" why do hollywood people think you need to update a retro nostalgia flick ?It would of just all been much better as a straight action+camp flick.  The hip lingo attempts and hip references are just stomach churning to hear.  The kids don't need to hear people talking like them to enjoy it.find the southpark episode where Korn are the guests and they do a Scoody-Doo spoof.  Kids and adults can have fun with that. This movie does nothing it tries well.  limit the scope, shorten the movie, do a few things well.This could have been a franchise like Austin Powers.  Now it is another black eye for Raja.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw the movie and if you liked the cartoon then you will love the movie it is very funny I recommend everybody to see this excellent movie. It is better than any movie I have every seen. I recommend that all kids from age 3 to 16 go see this movie because they will love. "},{"Title":"Hey it could have been worse","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well what can I say? I mean it's not award winning material. But it's pretty fun anyway. Sure it's corny as ever and is pretty much like the cartoon show minus the canned laughter. It's directed more towards the younger audiences, filled with slapstick humor and fart jokes. Wow I even could write a movie. "},{"Title":"Funny, Witty, and Wildy Entertaining","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby is back and literally better than ever.  I actually liked Freddy Prinze, Rowan Atkinson got the best role he ever has (aside from Mr. Bean), Matthew Lillard was a better Shaggy than the original.  The visual effects aren't too good, but you'll love Scooby more than ever.  And you'll laugh very, very hard. "}{"Title":"DEFINATELY NOT A KID'S MOVIE!!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Maybe I'm over protective, or maybe I just like to hold dear in my heart the wonderful, fun loving, corny Scooby Doo of my childhood.  I think what the movie makers of this new Scooby Doo movie were attempting to do was to touch all our childhood memories of Scooby Doo and bring the adults into the theatre and give them an adult taste of live-action Scooby Doo and if that is their goal then more power to them because it's a decent, funny, brainless, corny good time.  Don't expect Oscar Winning material within a thousand yards of this movie but if you're just out for a laugh and some good times then this is the movie to check out.  All the gang from the cartoon series, Fred, Daphne, Velma, Shaggy and of course Scooby Doo after a brief seperation are rejoined on a Spooky Island Amusement Park to solve a mystery that is so way complex for any child that you actually have to think about it...something that Scooby Doo NEVER made you do before.  The jokes are great, and they certainly do stay true to the original Doo and also add some new gags.  In grand tradition of the new Millenium of comedy every successful comedy must have a slew of rude body noises and bodily functions. I don't know when or why this became funny but the makers of this movie threw in the proper burps and farts to keep up with the times.  Matthew Lillard is brilliant as Shaggy...in fact the whole cast is quite perfect for their roles.  Although I do believe that each actor portrays their character with a hint of SPOOF in their character.  Freddie Prinze Jr. certainly makes fun of the character Fred, and the rest of them fall in line.  The computer generated Scooby Doo is wonderful!!  He's funny, and has some great lines and the special effects are pretty decent.  Now why do I think this is not for kids??  The numerous references to Shaggy smoking dope is completely unneccessary...if we, as adults, want to assume that Shaggy was born of Marijuana...great for us...let's not refer to it in a movie that millions of children will be watching.  Second of all the outfits...you couldn't see much more of Sarah Michelle Gellar's breasts or rear end if you watched Cruel Intention in slow-mo...and the references to naked bodies is just not a kid thing and not cool at all!!  And lastly...and the most important to me (also about to spoil the ending) is that the bad guy turns out to be none other than the beloved Scrappy Doo...nephew to Scooby.  Scrappy is portrayed as evil, annoying, and bent on world destruction (I'm not kidding you.)  As I listened to the delighted children around me squeal Scrappy! happily when he makes his first appearance...all that is quickly drowned when they discover he is evil and wants to destroy everyone...ummm hello who is paying therapy bills here??  Scrappy's last line is...and I would have gotten away with it if it hadn't been for you son's of... and is drowned out by a helicopter...Oh hardy har har har...hilarious children entertainment.  But hey if the kids are in bed and you're reminsicing about your childhood cartoons Scooby Doo is great...for adults! 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"SCOOOOBY DOOOBY DO RULZ!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"   I just got back from seeing this movie, and I love it to death. It was not all just a silly childrens movie. It had the funny references to you know what My names Mary Jane Scooby Snacks and The mystery machine by the beach with smoke coming out of it, and Scooby and Shaggy Laughing hysterically. It was also funny with Scooby and Shaggy getting in a farting war. And the ending was the bomb See it for yourself to find out. Overall for being a giant Scooby fan, and almost not wanting to see this movie, I'm glad I did, because I loved it, it left me feeling enlightened and entertained. None of the movie was disappointing or stupid at all. I give this movie a 10 for being very funny, heartwarming, and overall great. Scooby Doo is back and better than ever! "},{"Title":"First half was great, but who wrote the second half?","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  My five year old son and I just returned from seeing Scooby Doo at a drive-in theatre here in Central Illinois. We own or have borrowed a good number of Scooby Doo videos over the past couple years and I thought this would be a fun movie to go see. I was right. At least for the first 30 to 40 minutes. The gang is well cast and the actor portraying Shaggy steals the show. He is a dead-on ringer for the cartoon character. If you are familiar with the cartoon version of Scooby Doo then you will appreciate a couple of the exchanges between Shaggy and Scooby as the plot unfolds. There are also a couple of scenes that had us both laughing out loud and drying our eyes. As the movie rolled along I was thinking, this is pretty good. Then something happened that even my son thought was dumb. Scrappy Doo was introduced into the plot and was shown in a very undesirable light. (He actually urinates on Daphne in one scene) Without revealing any plot twists I can only say that my son and I think the movie would have jumped from 2 stars to a fun 4 stars if the editors had gone back and simply cut every scene out of the movie that involved Scrappy Doo. This could actually be done without changing anything else in the movie and you'd pretty much end up with the same ending, only much better.As far as recommendations...I thought it was an enjoyable movie for the most part, especially the first half. The plot becomes confusing and twisted towards the end. Leave out Scrappy and I'd give it four stars as a kids movie. As it is I'd give it two stars. Seeing Shaggy and Scooby together on the big screen was definitely worth the cost of admission.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was great. I loved it and the villian was a surprise not predictable like in other movies. The actors did a great job at playing the roles. Matthew Lillard did a great job at doing the shaggy voice. This movie is great for the kids too. And for those parents who's kids have never seen scooby this is great for them. "},{"Title":"Could've done without...","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" ...Daphne saying Whoop-Ass, Fred saying Beeatch, and the scene that turns into a breaking wind contest.  This was supposed to be a good movie for kids to see, but it's not like the original series.  Yes, times change, but some things should remain as they were.  That's from the parent perspective.  Now, from the adult perspective, this is a pretty okay movie!  Shaggy is the best in this one!  The ending was very surprising and delightful!  I recommend it from the adult standpoint, but they messed with it a little from the parent standpoint.  It's one to go see, but not a second time. "},{"Title":"Dead-on Scooby!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Mathew Lillard is Perfect! You totally see him as Shaggy. The rest of the cast tries not to be upstaged very well, especially Cardellini. If I'd watched this as a regular film, I'd have to say that it was alright, but as a cartoon fan I'd say it embraces the Scooby Doo way. It's totally Zany, totally Mezmerizing, and totally Scooby. "},{"Title":"My Review Scooby Doo","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"       This movie is truly wonderful. I enjoyed it throughly. Everything from bringing the characters to life, to the beautiful musical score. The story was funny, energetic, and upbeat. I think that most people can enjoy this film. Heck, at the screening I went to, the film received applause when it was over. This film has made an impact on me. I'm interested in all the actors/actresses that made this movie possible, and, someday, it'd be my dream to be in a film just like this. Thanks, Warner Bros., for letting this film get made. I absolutely adore it; it kicks butt! I hope to see more movies like this in the future. Maybe even a sequel?? Scooby Doo, you rule! "},{"Title":"This is one for the adults and the kids","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a different film but will be enjoyed by all. Take the kids and your husband/wife to see it. Scooby rocks, as all ways. Shaggy is cool. The technology used in the film is great. The best thing I personally reckon is that it's shoot in my home country, Australia. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  We got the chance to see a preview last night. From the trailers I thought that I would have to grind my teeth and endure the pain while my son, age 10, enjoyed himself.  We both had a great time! The actors are dead-on and flesh out the cartoon characters quite well.  The action is fast paced and the humor is consistent.  There are some gross jokes, but I think artistic license is allowed and helps make the transition to the big screen. Recommended to kids and parents alike. My rating 8 (***) "},{"Title":"A disgraceful, soul-less live action version of the classic cartoon that will shatter your good image of the `real' Scooby Doo. Avoid it at all costs!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Yep, it's every bit as awful as it looks in the preview. Taking all of the fun and camp that made the cartoon so memorable, you get an empty, soul-less teenybopper version of the classic animated series. If you can't tell by the cast (Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, etc.) that it's going to be disgraceful, than with any luck the sight of the frightening CGI Scooby will turn you away.While Scooby may be the one with the title, he was never overbearing like he is in this flick. He does a little too much talking and is closer to Jar Jar Binks than the `real' Scooby Doo. It's tough to say that the once loveable pooch was annoying, but he was. The rest of the cast was OK. Past sins of their career temporarily forgiven, Prinze and Gellar, are fine as Fred and Daphne and Linda Cardellini does a pretty good Velma. The real star (and saving grace) was Matthew Lillard as Shaggy. His dead-on take on everyone's favorite stoner was quite impressive, but not enough to save the sinking ship.Director Raja Gosnell (whose unfunny credits include `Home Alone 3' and `Big Momma's House') doesn't do much to liven up James Gunn's lousy script. Let's think about this for a minute here `Scooby Doo' is a trusted brand name and potential franchise and the studio in entrusting the director of `Home Alone 3' and the writer of `Tromeo and Juliet' to make this a winner?Where did it go so wrong? Where did it break down? Was it the farting dual between Shaggy and Scooby? Was it the guest appearances by Pamela Anderson and Sugar Ray? Was it everyone's least favorite character Scrappy Doo (think Son of Jar Jar) as a surprise main character? Was it trying to make Scooby use `hip lingo'? Maybe it was the combination of all of these with the fact that this wasn't made for anyone over the age of 12 or anyone with a developed sense of humor.If you were ever a Scooby Doo fan, avoid this one at all costs. Do not taint your good memory of him. If you've never seen it, this isn't the time for a poor introduction. Do yourself a favor and watch the cartoon first if you really have to go. You can wait for video if you'd like, but there's no reason to. While there's probably already a sequel in the works, one can only hope that this one will tank (a la `Lost In Space') and there's won't be another, but we wouldn't be so lucky, would we?  "}{"Title":"Another Hollywood Scheme to Capitalize on a Popular Cartoon","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't have Scooby Doo the movie on the top of my list but I got a pass to see it.Oh,well!I wasn't never a fan of th TV series,though I watched it numerous times(I much preferred Hanna-Barbera's other cartoon series of a little earlier time The Flintstones). But it's certainly good enough for the kids and the Scooby cartoon gang of Fred,Daphne,Shaggy,Velma played by Freddie Prinze Jr.,Sarah Michelle Gellar,Linda Cardellini and Scott Innes,respectively,are good even though the movie follows the same one-track aura of the TV series.Then,again the kids do not have a chance at viewing innocent stuff on film.I did catch a little suggestive twink of sexuality in a couple of scenes.  "},{"Title":"What I think About Scooby Doo","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw an advance screening of Scooby Doo. I watched the cartoon when i was small, and i really had hope in my heart for this movie. If you aren't 12yrs and under dont bother to see this movie. The humor of this movie has a childish tone to it and  the story is a bit weak but kids really dont know the difference so they will enjoy it. Everything I laughed at none of the kids in the room laughed at. Sarah, Freddie, Matt and Linda did a good acting job dont get me wrong here it was fairly entertaining but i could have seen better so for teens and adults this isnt worth 10 bucks. Wait till it comes out on DVD.Cameos by the band SUGAR RAY & PAMELA ANDERSON didn't help the cause. Scooby Doo's voice was well done. Over all I'd give Scooby Doo (2002) a 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Don't Even Bother.....I Warned You","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am so disappointed in this movie I can't even put it into words. This is just a terrible, terrible movie. It isn't as bad as Changing Lanes, but it could give it a run for it's money. If not for my love the Scooby-Doo cartoon, I would have walked out after about 30 minutes. And I have never walked out of a movie in my life. The only other movie i was ever tempted to walk out of was Changing Lanes. This movie has what I like to call Street Fighter Syndrome. What is Street Fighter Syndrome, you ask? I'll tell you. Street Fighter Syndrome is when developing a film of a popular staple of pop-culture and you take the time to cast people who look perfect as the characters, but don't give any thought at all to things such as plot, a good script, good directing and all that other unimportant stuff. (sarcasm) There are barely a handful of good things about this movie. The first 5 minutes are good, but it takes a nosedive soon after. Matthew Lilliard, Linda Cardellini, Sarah Michelle Gellar, and even Freddie Prinze Jr. are all good as Shaggy, Velma, Daphne and Fred. The CG Scooby is even pretty impressive. Sarah Michelle Gellar looks very hot as Daphne. Even Velma is hot. Other than that, this movie has no possible redeeming values. The plot seems like it was written by Shaggy himself. You might like this if YOU'VE NEVER SEEN AN EPISODE OF THE CARTOON, you are a little kid, or you are like Shaggy himself. (Mary Jane is like my favorite name of all time. A direct quote from the movie. I AM NOT LYING.) But if you were like me, someone who had high hopes after many hours spent watching the cartoons, I hate to burst your bubble. If you want to see a good, funny movie go see Undercover Brother.  "},{"Title":"Good children's movie","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have recently gotten the chance to catch a free screening of this and I wasn't sure if I wanted to see it.  I never liked Scooby Doo whenever I was a kid, so i was really wondering if I should see this.  I decided to see it and review it.  It turns out that it was a good children's movie.  Any kid who likes Scooby Doo should definitely see this.  I don't like Scooby Doo the television show but this isn't half bad.  The only thing I thought was good was the acting by the characters.  Matthew Lillard is a good Shaggy, and his performance was pretty good.  Linda Cardellini, Freddie Prinze JR., and Sarah Michelle Gellar are all good as what they are given and they fill all of the characters with what they need to bring out.  I didn't particularly like the movie, though.  But you've got to think, this isn't my kind of movie.  I mean I'm not going to buy this on DVD or see it at the theaters again but I was happy I had the chance to see it.  The person who did the voice of Scooby and Scrappy do pretty good voice impressions.  If you're a kid, and you like the show, I suggest you go see this.Overall the movie was good performance-wise but I didn't like the humor or the storyline(remember, I'm in my 20s) but I'm sure children will like the humor and story.  Rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The same old stuff... with a Scooby-Doo bent","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" If you've seen the Brady Bunch and Addams Family movies, you'll have a fair idea what to predict with this film old sitcom characters trying to live their lives in modern America, self-parodying self-confessions of how absurd they are pepper the movie, culture clash between characters' world and 'new' world gives the chance to fill the movie with the stand-up comics' standard repertoire of topics (wedgies, airline food, diets, burps, farts, teen lingo, cosmetic surgery). So, if you're expecting any new directions in comedy and pop culture referencing, you'll be disappointed. However, if you like Scooby-Doo but don't see it as a sacred cow... er, great dane... you'll enjoy seeing it get the standard comic treatment.When the story opens with Mystery Inc breaking up, Velma is irked that she once again is the brains behind the operation while Fred gets all the public glory as the 'leader' and Daphne gets her dim-witted self into trouble. This sets the tone for a movie full of self-references, including the inevitable Scooby-Doo jokes about their villains always being someone in a mask, the shark-jumping addition of Scrappy-Doo to the cast and the standard closing line, I woulda got away with it, if it weren't for you meddling kids. When the gang is unknowingly reunited to solve the case of who is terrorising teens at the Spooky Island resort, the movie glides along through a formula from a Hollywood text book. It then takes us to the conclusion wherein the villain being a masked Scrappy Doo seeking vengeance on Mystery Inc. It's a neat twist, but ultimately lacks punch despite causing a few chuckles. "},{"Title":"Mindless Fluff","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The key to enjoying SCOOBY DOO is not to expect too much. The producers have billed the film as half homage, half parody; in truth, it isn't really close enough to the original cartoon to be called homage and it really doesn't go far enough to be called parody, and as usual Hollywood makes the mistake of trying to cover up the script's inadequacies with big-budget production values and expensive but actually so-so special effects. All the same, the film does have its moments. The story finds Fred, Daphne, Velma, and Shaggy splitting up due to ego conflicts--and then being unexpectedly reunited when the owner of a teen resort called Spooky Island invites them in to find out why his guests arrive as normal teens and then depart as, well, ZOMBIES.The script is fairly mundane, but it does have a few zingers, as when Velma says Let's get jinky with it! And although the cast is a mixed bag, they work hard to bring it off. Freddie Prinze is wildly miscast as Fred and Sarah Michelle Gellar is not an ideal Daphne, but they play with tremendous energy; Matthew Lillard and Linda Cardellini, however, are so dead on target with their performances that they create an amazing sense of deja vu. As for Scooby Doo, he is (of course) a computerized animation. And so are most of the monsters the gang encounters on Spooky Island. Although it works reasonably well, it isn't anything to write home about.I would recommend that parents preview the film before unleashing it upon their kids; some younger children may be unnerved by the monsters. The DVD comes with a number of extras that include some cut scenes--and they offer an interesting contrast with the film, for they are very satirical. Seeing them left me with the feeling that the film would have been much more entertaining if those scenes had been left in and the whole thing had been done with the same bite. As it is--SCOOBY DOO is neither a great film nor a memorable film. But we're all occasionally in the mood for some mindless fluff, and it fills that niche very well indeed.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Always a fan!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I loved this movie. As someone who was raised on the original Scooby Doo I watched very closely for connections to the Scooby Doo that I love. I feel it was done very well - casting was good (Fred's hair wasn't blonde enough but no big deal). I loved the references to all of the bad guys I grew up watching over and over again. But the most important thing to me was that my children loved it too. My children own the first season of the original Scooby Doo and they loved recognizing the cartoon villains in this movie. My children are also fans of What's New Scooby Doo as am I. My point is that the changes made here and there for the film are not deal breakers. We're still huge Scooby fans. The story line of Scooby Doo 2 was much better than the first. We found it very entertaining and look forward to adding it to our DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie, it was always going to be hard to bring a brilliant cartoon series to movie, they did it pretty well.I liked Matthew Lillard as Norville 'Shaggy' Rogers he did a very good job, it was almost like looking at Shaggy the cartoon character. I'm a big fan of his work, I have enjoyed each and over performance he has done, and this one another good job for him.Linda Cardellini did a good job as Velma, had a the look, and had did a very good job.Freddie Prinze Jr. was OK as Fred, but I didn't like the voice he did for 'Fred' but he did a very good job, and I was happy to see him in the movie.Sarah Michalle Gellar was good as Daphne, it could of been better, I'm, not a big fan of 'Buffy' but she did an excellent job, the whole movie it's self was pretty good. It had a good cast, and a good storyline.I have yet to see the second one, I hope it is as good as this one.  "},{"Title":"Scooby-Doo fan all the way!","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  If I am in the mood for a fun movie, I will pop in Scooby Doo.The acting done in this movie is excellent. I have always loved Matthew Lillard, Freddie Prinze Jr., and Sarah Michelle Gellar. Matthew Lillard did a excellent job as portraying as Shaggy. Sarah Michelle Gellar was stunning as Daphne. Freddie Prinze Jr. did a excellent job as trying to look and act like Fred Jones. They all did a great job. This is my favorite movie. Sarah Michelle Gellar is my favorite actress. I have seen most of what she has been in. I loved Sarah in Buffy the Vampire Slayer. I do not know else to say except Scooby-Doo is my number one favorite dog.  "},{"Title":"Good family movie","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie remains a family favorite. My youngest has seen the movie so many times, he can recite the movie word for word. I am a bit disappointed that the writers chose to allow Velma and Daphne to curse. I am also disappointed with the choice to include drug related jokes. All in all, I feel this was a good movie, but the movie could have survived without these additions. I see this as a good movie that parents should watch with their children so that they can guide them past the issues that seem to be so pervasive in today's movies.I was also very pleased with the final choice for the ultimate bad guy. I think true Scooby Doo fans everywhere will appreciate this.  "}{"Title":"Scooby Beats The Passion in the UK","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I had to take my kids to this, I'd rather enjoyed Scooby1 so was expecting something OK. Once again the IMDB score was spot on (currently 4.9). This was another production-line Hollywood product with all the right ingredients, Star Names, Excellent CGI, plot with twists and turns, so what exactly is wrong with it? Well I don't really know? It just seems to have no soul. Nothing is really funny. Shaggy works overtime to try and breathe life into the movie. All the other characters have to go thru tedious moments of self-doubt. Yet Scooby2 has been the number 1 film in the UK over Easter easily beating the Passion. Scooby3; yawn!!! "},{"Title":"Scooby is cute.","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'm gonna have to go with Roger Ebert on this one. Scooby Doo himself is absolutely  amazing. Probably one of the best CG creations ever put into film. And yes, I'm even  considering Gollum from LOTR. A Computer Generated Scooby could have gone disasterously  wrong. It was a real highwire risk but it pays off immeasurably. Every scene he's in is magic. I  actually think he might be better than the cartoon original. How they managed to find just  the right formula is almost a miracle that could get us back in Church on Sundays. The movie  is stupid fun, you know what you're in for. The writers and cast seem to have fun with it  despite itself. But... everytime Scooby is on screen I just smile. He's so cute. And he and  matthew Lillard as Shaggy have an easy chemistry most of Hollywood's elite would kill for.  "},{"Title":"Matthew Lillard IS Shaggy","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I was seriously dreading this film. What was conceivably a very, very bad idea turned out to be a surprisingly good film with a fair amount of comedy. Originally a Mike Myers vehicle (thank God THAT didn't work out), but then recast with I Know What You Did Last Summer and Scream actors, the realization of Scooby-Doo as a CGI character interacting with live action actually works. I'd say it was a one in a million chance but Raja Gosnell managed to pull it off.The most impressive transformation tho is not cartoon Scooby to CGI Scooby but Matthew Lillard's performance as Shaggy. No way would I have believed he could possibly take on the role of one of my most fave characters ever but he just seems to completely disappear and the spirit of Shaggy takes him over. He brings some real integrity to what is widely regarded as an artless family movie. Even Freddy Prinze Jr. seems to nail the voice and narcissism of Fred, and Sarah Michelle Gellar is quite good as Daphne. Though I was always more attracted to Velma as I really dig nerdy chicks. Linda Cardellini brings some true sex appeal to the role. I wish the never-seen lesbian kiss between her and Daphne never got cut out.Of course the plot is the usual baloney but there is constant action and invention to keep even the most impatient viewer stuck on till the end. The gang go to a theme park resort called Spooky Island (actually an Australian resort) to solve the mystery of why the wild spring break kids are turning into well-mannered nerds. But not only are there guys in masks but there are some REAL spooks too. I would have liked Rowan Atkinson to have a bigger role as Emile Mondavarious but considering the twist (which comes as an amusing surprise) at the end, the plot doesn't really have room for it. It's good to have him in there though instead of a cast full of 20-somethings. But 99% of the comic genius comes Matthew Lillard.The CGI has dated somewhat since its release. Scooby and the various demons don't look very photo-realistic anymore and it's a little bit distracting. I doubt the target audience will care.An unfairly trashed and fun movie. "},{"Title":"This movie made me very glad inside when watching it. Great actors!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie made me feel really happy while watching it and also after it was done I was smiling.The 4 main actors are all great actors with a common chemistry.Many people says that Scooby looked too computer made... So what? He is a cartoon dog from the begining. How cool would it have been if they took an ordinary bulldog or something? No, I like him. He and Shaggy were a cool couple! "},{"Title":"A good time.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Most people are pretty harsh on this movie, but it's really not bad. Actually, I think it's quite funny. I loved the cartoon growing up, and this didn't disappoint me, because it's not supposed to be some great movie. It's not really aimed at adults (although there are a few bits for parents, like the cute 'pot smoking Shaggy' references), but at at children, and that's who it will please the most. It's fun and marvelously cast - Matthew Lillard does an impeccable Shaggy impersonation - see it just for that! Give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Load Of Fun","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Just a whole lot of fun.  One of my favorite cartoons brought to life in a movie.  Just stupid fun all around.I have no opinion on the script or the lighting or anything like that.  Just a lot of fun and I enjoyed it completely. "},{"Title":"I love Scooby Doo...","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  the cartoon that is. But, the live version movie was pretty good also. The best character was Shaggy because Matthew Lillard really sounded like Shaggy from the cartoon.  I also didn't think CG Scooby was that bad. It looked OK enough. And I also thought the other 3 members of the gang came off well. I liked how they looked just like on the cartoon. And I thought the film had its funny moments, but let's face it, it was the popularity of the cartoon that helped this movie do so well.The part I didn't care for was who the true villain behind Spooky Island was. I just didn't think he was very evil, I mean he's actually a cute little fella.  I wish they would have had a really evil villain at the end.FINAL VERDICT  A good movie for kids and adults.  Just remember it is what it is, so don't complain about Scooby not looking real. That's the point. He's a talking dog, why should he look real. "},{"Title":"Better Than The Original Cartoons, At Least","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  1) This movie is tolerable if you can see it for free; don't pay for it. 2) It is crafted far better than the original cartoons. 3) The casting is quite good, especially Lillard. 4) Self-mockery elevates the plot somewhat above the plots of the cartoons. 5) Whether or not you like the art design and the computer animation, you have to admit that someone put a lot of work into it.  "},{"Title":"Just Enjoy It For Pete's Sake","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby-Doo was an entertaining movie which I am sure can be enjoyed by fans of Scooby in all his various incarnations.Don't sit down to watch Scooby-Doo expecting a five star movie. Don't sit down and think about whether it can match up to Citizen Kane. Sometimes, it's best to switch off your brain, put your childhood head on and just enjoy.All the actors and actresses in their roles do a good job and the Mystery Inc. gang are likeable enough. They play their roles down to a tee and I had a hard time envisioning anyone else playing the roles of the Scooby Gang. As for Scooby, well he may have been CGI but he felt real enough to me.Sometimes, cartoons don't translate well to the big screen. There are exceptions such as the Flintstones movies but most cartoon to big screen films are quite poor. Scooby-Doo is one of those movies that doesn't fail to entertain. If you are a fan of the numerous Scooby cartoons that have aired over the years, then this is the movie for you. Anyone who doesn't like it is entitled to their view but I thought it was fantastic.I am certainly going to view it again when the opportunity arises-and I don't need a Scooby Snack to tempt me either. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I just bought this DVD movie.  I have been a huge Scooby Doo fan since I was little, and to say that the actors portrayed the characters down perfectly, much like the cartoon characters themselves. What's ironic is that an actor named Fred was picked to play the part of Fred. I hope that the next Scooby Doo movie is just as good as this first one.=)  "}{"Title":"Not Too Bad","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  For the past several years, Hollywood has brought classic cartoons to the screen.  The Flintstones The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Josie and the Pussycats to name a few.  It was inevitable that Scooby Doo would come to the big screen.  Well this certainly isn't the best (The Flintstones) and it certainly isn't the worst (Josie and the Pussycats).  The cast is pretty good, especially the actor that plays Shaggy.  The story is stupid but funny.  This film is in the same situation as The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle.  If you didn't appreciate the cartoon, then you will hate this movie!     "},{"Title":"Not even the one saving grace...","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Allow me to quote from Roger Ebert's review. This is perhaps the least explicable thing he has ever said&#133;one thing above all caught my attention the director, Raja Gosnell, has a thing about big breasts. I say this not only because of the revealing low-cut costumes of such principals as Sarah Michelle Gellar, but also because of the number of busty extras and background players, who drift by in crowd scenes with what Russ Meyer used to call 'cleavage cantilevered on the same principle that made the Sydney Opera House possible.' &#133; 'Scooby-Doo' could have been a comedy about how a Russ Meyer clone copes with being assigned a live-action adaptation of a kiddie cartoon show.Now, speaking as someone who really DOES have a thing about big breasts, I have no idea what Ebert is talking about &#150; and believe me, I'd have noticed the cleavage he alludes to if it had really been there. I, too, was bored; moreover, primed by his review and grateful to have something to take my mind off the inept banality of it all, I was actually LOOKING for boob footage right from the start. I can report that the women in the film, extras included, did actually have breasts, which is just as well; but that's about all I can report. Has Ebert taken a look at the outside world lately? You can see far more just glancing out across a busy street. There's EVERY kind of women's clothing out there utilitarian, tight, loose, translucent, opaque, Islamic, cute, subtly flattering, little flesh, much flesh. This diversity is a GOOD thing. In films &#150; especially films like this one &#150; the extremes are deliberately avoided. Nobody wears much more or much less than anyone else. Nobody's aesthetic sensibility is different from anybody else's. It's as though there's a strict company dress code, and about as exciting to look at.I wouldn't be going on at such great length if this bland, unadventurous uniformity in dress (and shape and physical appearance generally) weren't of a piece with the bland, unadventurous uniformity of the entire film. There's NOTHING in it to command anyone's attention. (Ebert mentioned an array of well-displayed breasts, but he probably imagined it.) It knows the moves, it knows what's currently fashionable and what teen movies are currently allowed to do and what they're not, but it's about as exciting to watch as the rulebook which governs its every move would be to read.And let's get one thing straight the same goes for the source material. You liked it as a kid? Then you were duped as a kid, and the sooner you admit it, the better. You feel nostalgia? Get over it. I know now (I may even have known then) that I was so hungry for animated fantasy as a child that I would have watched anything, anything at all, and talked myself into thinking I liked it, and so (among other things) I watched and talked myself into thinking I liked 'Scooby Doo'. I never grew to feel any if fondness for it, but if I had, it would signify nothing, since being brainwashed as a child is the ONLY way to develop such fondness. Much of what's loathsome about the cartoons makes its way through to the movie. You have the group of friends who are together not through their own inclinations but because the marketing department assigned them to one another; you have catch phrases and gimmicks (like the title character's supposedly cute speech impediment) which are embarrassing to even THINK about; you have bad animation &#150; in this case, bad CGI.To give credit where it's due, there is ONE funny line, delivered by Rowan Atkinson, concerning the cat with the bopping head. But then, this is yet another film in which Rowan Atkinson's ability to make anything funny is PRESUMED upon. "},{"Title":"Not the worst...but was in the ball park","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this film last night.  While it is not truely the worst movie of all time (that right being explicity reserved for Tank Girl) it has been deemed worthy of a place in the top 10 all time bad movies in my book.The plot...doesn't even classify as stupid...it's clear that the scriptwritters sent this sucker around in an add a page and pass it along. So first, we have a fairly classic Scooby Doo setup, with the bungled capture of the bad guy...only updated with bubble gum pop chase music? We then find out that Fred isn't realy the leader, but a big-headed-air brained narcissius?  Daphney is an idiot (ok..that translates well).  Velma is some sort of stuck up MIT grad? And of course Shaggy and Scooby are pot-heads.RIIGHT...The gang breaks up...and in under five minutes gets back together?  The island is haunted by demon-bugs bunnies who suck the souls out of kids and then use their bodies to rule the world?  All the while pumping out today's pop hits?RIIGHT....And what's the frigging deal with Scrappy Doo?  Yes he's annoying as all geddout, but he's not potty trained to boot?  And he's a diabolical mastermind?RIIGHT....Well the bottom line is unless you're desperatly searching for the worst movies made in the past decade...Scooby doo should be left off any rental list.  If you are looking for the absolute worst movie made in the past 10 years...Check out Tank Girl.  It's truely deserving of a sequil.Jason "},{"Title":"Was always a big Scooby Doo fan as a kid","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie. I thought Lillard did an excellent job playing Shaggy. Scooby could have been a little more realistic but he was a cartoon character afterall. Having Scrappy appear was certainly a suprise and no being a scrappy fan it was good seeing what happened to him.  "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I approached this film with some trepidation, films based on cartoon series often go awry and I had heard some negative comments from people who had seen sneak previews or pirated tapes and VCDs (I swear, the WB leaks like a sieve).  Fortunately they were only partially correct.The main complaints I had heard were that Sarah Michelle Gellar and Rowan Atkinson were under used.  To a certain extent they are.  Rowan seems to be making the most of a less than great part, reminding me very much of his early work for Not the Nine O'Clock News and at the various Secret Policeman's Balls.  Sarah is criminally under used as Daphne early in the film, seemingly hired for her ability to look very good in a short skirt and low cut top, however in the last third of the film she is finally given something to work with and demonstrates why she is one of the top rated actresses in her age group.  At one point (you'll recognize it when you see the film) she demonstrates a perfect understanding of the male gender psyche and how any of us would react in a certain situation.Truly the saving grace of the film is Shaggy and Scooby.  Matthew Lillard has got Shaggy down perfectly, it's like he stepped out of the animation and into the live action unchanged.  His interactions with the CGI Scooby are faultless.  Many of the old jokes from the cartoon are here but they play like the return of old friends rather than as stale repeats of the same tired old schtick.  There are a number of drugs references and some sexual innuendo but it's so skillfully done that it will be over the heads of many younger viewers so all that will be happen is that they'll be left wondering why all the adults are laughing at certain scenes.The true identity of the villain is skillfully masked until the revelation and will be deeply satisfying for many fans of the original cartoon. "},{"Title":"i laughed all the way through!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  maybe its just me, but i loved this film. i still love the original Scooby Doo cartoons but i went to the cinema with (very) low expectations after reading the reviews here! however i ended up chuckling all the way through the film ... i cant think of another flick ive enjoyed so much!!! ok, if you dont like the cartoons then just dont bother but if you do then whats not to like!!! "},{"Title":"As bad as I expected","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is as horrible as Josie and the Pussycats but not as stomach turning as Dudley Do-Right. Matthew Lillard is a natural choice as Shaggy and is perfectly cast. But everyone else looks confused and lost. A script is rarely as bad as this. The first scene in the movie has the spirit of the cartoon but everything after that is utter garbage that has nothing to do with the original concept of Scooby-Doo. The cartoon has villains that are disguised as monsters but here there real demons! This inept bunch should be in over there heads. The two worst scenes for me are where Scrappy-Doo urinates on Daphne and the second would be the belching and farting contest between Shaggy and Scooby-Doo. Not exactly like the cartoon! And this also has to be one of the worst surprise endings in movie history. Just plain dumb! I understand the filmmakers want to be a little contemporary, but you have to stick with what brought you here. And this end result is not the Scooby-Doo that we know! "},{"Title":"Scooby fans will be sorely disappointed","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I watched Scooby-Doo religiously growing up and still tune in occasionally now. This movie was awful. I think the filmmakers were satisfied that they could create a CGI Scooby and get the actors to look like the characters and that's it. Next time, how about a decent plot and dialogue, guys? And would it kill you to have one scene where Scooby makes his sandwich too big and has to tie a string around it to fit it in his mouth? "},{"Title":"No reason to spoil the greatness of the cartoon","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is soooo bad, if it wasn't for the eye candy( SMG, Pammie, the gals that play Velma and Mary Jane), it would deserve a 1. Just when I thought it could descend no lower in stupid gross unfunny attempts at humour, it did.I expected better computer animation, but it looked phony. I guess we're spoiled.I disagree with the plaudits for Matthew Lillard's acting as Shaggy. I thought he was way over the top hammy.Freddie Prinze was wooden as Fred. SMG was fine as Daffy, although she is largely limited to an ornamental role in low cut short dresses. I wish I remembered the Velma gal's name- she steals the movie for me.I would watch her in a better movie.I also did not think it was true to the series. In the series, all the magic was explained as trickery. Not so here. Supernatural beliefs are so ingrained in Harry Potter, LOTR etc that the shabby voodoo here just slides by.Plus, I am far from a prude, but I thought the sex and drug references were a bit too explicit for the younger crowd.I did like the Harry Poter and the Chamber of Secrets trailer. Not worth $7.50 though.Send the kids. save your money for a real movie. Or stay home. maybe the Stooges are on TV, and they do fart jokes better. Or buy the Buffy DVD- season 2 was prime SMG- not so skinny they had to bury her in sweaters all the time. "},{"Title":"Heed the Words of a False Prophet.? (possible spoiler)","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I take adaptations of classic comics & other cartoons religiously. With so many bad adaptations like Inspector Gadget, Batman & Robin, and, to some extent, X-Men, I had begun to lose my faith. Hearing Mike Myers was taking on Scooby rekindled a spark in me a bit, but upon hearing of the current cast, I once again became skeptical.Spider-Man became my messiah - at last an adaptation worth praising. Then, Scooby starting surprising me hearing Matthew Lillard do Shaggy was an epiphany - perhaps Raja Gosnell did indeed know what he was doing.Still being somewhat skeptical, I went to see Scooby. I was absolutely thrilled, despite minor disappointing quirks from supposedly static characters(like Fred's heretofore unseen vanity and Daphne's whine). I actually enjoyed the movie.Reference to Hong Kong Phooey and the gang ditching Scrappy (too bad Lucas didn't do similarly with Jar Jar) were delightful. Brick House as theme music to Scooby's disguise helped set the updatedness of the movie back to the '70's in a refreshing way.But alas, the story was revealed to be a false prophet upon reaching the climax. My placation went from 99% to 10% when the real villain was revealed. Even my 10-year old brother was insulted by the poor choice of antagonism. I won't say who that villain was, so as to not spoil much, but I will say that our favorite ol' Great Dane didn't have him crying Uncle.- The OverdramaP.S. - Sarah Michelle Gellar is one of my favorite actresses, but portraying Daphne was no help to her poor resume. And, after seeing the movie, she had me salivating no where near as much as Isla Fisher, who potrays Mary Jane (à la Spidey?), Shaggy's gorgeous girlfriend. "}{"Title":"the best movie ever","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie 7 times and i loved it every time. the actors did really great as well. I think this movie is a hit of the summer. It was so funny it had me laughing so hard i couldn't breath. I cant wait until it comes out to buy i,am going to be the first to buy it really rocks i think. it deserves 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Front-runner for the worst film of the year. 1/10","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I dislike the Scooby-Doo movie immensely. The film is absent of charm; humor; or anything that would classify it as being worthwhile entertainment. Children will not enjoy this film, it's far too ugly and odd. For parents, the film is the equivalent to Chinese water-torture. Out of the entire running time of the movie, there may be 1 minute in the film that contains anything that is genuinely clever or funny. This film is bad on so many levels, I feel nauseated talking about it. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films since Zoolander...","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, I had been waiting and waiting this week for The Bourne Identity to come out. I arrived at the theater around 430 today (Friday, opening day), and was dismayed to find all shows sold out before 715. I walked in, ripped my ticket, and looked around for a movie to watch while I waited an hour and a half. Scooby-Doo was about to start. Hmm..I walked in, sat down, and saw lots and lots of kids. Lots. Oodles. It was packed. I settled down for what might be a somewhat ok movie, and wanting to see how Matt Lillard would do as Shaggy.I have to start with this tho, the Harry Potter Episode 2 preview was the best thing about Scooby-Doo.Horribly Cast (outside of Matt Lillard, who did as well as he could with such a poorly written role), terribly acted, extremely poorly written, I could only suffer about an hour of this montrosity before I eventually walked out for of a movie for only the 3rd time in my life (Zoolander being the last one). As soon as they found the secret control room which showed that they were brainwashing teenagers, I think I had enough. I understand they were trying to capture the feel of the cartoon, but even in that they sorely failed. The CG was shoddy, and the only positive point outside of Lillard's voice were a few unfunny guest cameos (just cool to see them in such a hollywood mishmash).My conclusion Worst movie so far this year. Avoid it like the plague. Oh, yeah, and Bourne Identity was excellent. 0/10. "},{"Title":"worst film","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don't have much to say about this movie, because of the fact that it was pure garbage. I've never felt the urge to bash a film more than this one. The plot is terrible. Little Freddy Prinze tries to be funny, but fails miserably.I laughed a total of two times in this movie. First, at the terrible acting of all the actors/actresses, and then after the credits were over. I was laughing at myself for actually paying money to see this film. I don't even think that this movie deserves to be called a film.Why didn't this go right to video?ZERO STARS OF FOUR (X/****) "},{"Title":"Had potential - over done","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Always been a fan of Scooby Doo, the series - either I'm too old or this was really bad. I think it was baked for too long. The Shaggy character is good and there were a few laughs. But overall I think it was too labored and disappointing. Maybe I was just trying to recapture my youth - this didn't do it! Spiderman was much better. "},{"Title":"1 of the worst films of the year!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I loved the cartoons when I was growing up. But a live-action movie? Bad dialogue, lousy CGI, etc.  Matthew Lillard, at times, makes Shaggy worth watching, but the rest r soooooo badly acted.  ( A CGI Scooby? U mean 2 tell me, there is no dog in this country that looks like Scooby Doo? Even if the dog doesn't have spots, there's something called painted spots. Please, dont see this, its a waste of time & money. If u MUST see this, have the lowest expectations, cause this is a crappy movie. U r better off taking your kid(s) 2 see STAR WARS Ep. 2 & or SPIDERMAN again!       "},{"Title":"Bad Scooby, Bad!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  As a Scooby-Doo fan I was quite disappointed with this picture! It's nice that the creative team decided to add a little bit of all the shows in the movie. But I would have preferred if they would have focused more on the `70s show (like Scooby-Doo, Where are You?, The New Scooby-Doo Movies, and The Scooby-Doo Show) and on the recent animated movies (like Zombie Island and Cyber Chase) and have included MORE hidden jokes so both children and adults can enjoy. In a way I feel this movie isn't true to Hanna-Barbera's original vision and that bothers me! Especially since William Hanna passed away during pre-production, I believe.The movie had it's moments and Matthew Lillard was hilarious as Shaggy. Plus Linda Cardellini, who's WAY better looking then Sarah Michelle Geller did a pretty good job. Now Sarah and Freddie could have done better. Or they could have cast better actors.Hopefully the sequel will be better!2(**)out of 4(****)starsA little side note (MAY CONTAIN SPOILER)The scene where they kick Scrappy out of the van was HILARIOUS! And the scene where Fred's soul is placed into Daphne's and he say's I wonder what I look like naked I said to myself I'm sure he knows!) "},{"Title":"Worst movie of the summer","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I used to love sitting in front of the TV as a child and watch the Scooby Doo cartoons. Hoping that this movie might be successful where other cartoon remakes have failed (Josie, Dudley Do Right, Howard the Duck, Rocky & Bullwinkle), it wasn't.This is the worst movie I have seen all summer. If you want to take your kids to a good movie, take them to see Lilo and Stitch or the upcoming Spy Kids 2. I am willing to bet that not only will they enjoy these movies more, you will too.So why do I think it is so bad??? A lot of people have been bashing the actors. I think they probably did the best they could with a lousy script and directing. The CGI was horrible. I found myself so bored with this movie that all I could do was sit and find flaws to keep myself entertained. Daphne's feet disappear into a CGI floor during one of the scenes. In another scene she is running up a flight of stairs in tennis shoes and when she jumps down she is in go-go boots. How can you miss things like this?Many of the scenes are pointless and just filler (the fart contest, Sugar Ray, etc). This movie could have been 30 minutes long and you would get just as much out of it, if not more.People have said Watch it for what it is or don't go in with high expectations. When people spend anywhere from $7 - $12 to see a 90 million dollar film - their expectations should be high. If you take the family, it will cost $30 - $40 with tickets and popcorn. So take my advice - if you really want to see this, wait till it's on video. Save your money for something worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Pure Torture.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Absolutely terrible movie based on the popular cartoon of the late-1960s and early-1970s that is just plain hard to watch because it is so bad. Scooby-Doo (computer-generated and admittedly fun to look at) and his pals split up, but end up back together two years later and go to an amusement park on a tropical island owned by the suspicious Rowan Atkinson. It seems that teenagers are becoming zombies after visiting the island and Atkinson's last resort is to contact the drivers of the famed Mystery Machine. Freddie Prinze,Jr., Matthew Lillard and Sarah Michelle Gellar just cannot cope with terrible direction and a stupid screenplay that feels like it was written by someone stuck in a Saturday morning cartoon blackhole. Really tedious. Would have been so much better if the whole thing had been computer-generated like the titled character. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"I'd rather watch this than the Chicago White Sox.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Who says Scooby-Doo should just be in animation? Look, at Popeye and the Flintstones, they were two old cartoons shows that jumnped from animation to live action, and now Scooby-Doo has too. As the movie opens, Fred (Fred Prinze Jr), Daphne (Sara Michelle Gellar), Velma (Linda Cardellini from Good Burger), Shaggy (Matthew Lillard), and Scooby-Doo are on another mystery. But after the case is over Fred gaves himself all the credit which leaves Velma to quit. So Fred and Daphne quit too, Scooby-Doo asks Shaggy if he should quit too, but Shaggy tells him that best buddies should stay together. 2 years later Shaggy and Scooby-Doo get a letter from Emile Mondavarious (Rowan Atkinson who you may know as Mr. Bean) who owns Spooky Island. At the airport Fred reunites with Velma, then Daphne, then Shaggy and Scooby-Doo, sounds like they were all invited to solve a case on why teenagers are leaving Spooky Island like Zombies. On the airplane Shaggy meets a young girl (Isla Fisher) which he tells her that Scooby-Doo is his grandma before making Scooby-Doo sit with Fred and Velma. If you are a fan of the tv series that ran from 1969-1986 check out this movie, I reccomed this and don't listen to the critics. 10/10                                "}{"Title":"Better than it looks","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie came off a lot better than the trailers made it look. Matthew Willard was exceptional.  I was expecting a total disappointment - but was pleasantly surprised.  Scooby also looked great - I liked that they kept that cartoon edge to him. "},{"Title":"Day 3  Seen it twice","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It's been out for three days and I've seen it twice.  Never before have I seen the same movie in a theater more than once.  Matthew Lillard is *fabulous* as Shaggy, they could have not have casted a better actor; Linda Cartellini has her characters voice down as well.  I loved Sarah Michelle Gellar's sassy and black-belted Daphne, and Freddy Prinze Jr. did very well as Fred. Seriously here folks, this movie seems to have a really bad pre-reputation. It could not have been better.  Yes, they may have four well-known actors, but after seeing the movie it was not soley to rake in the cash from their reputations.  They are all extremely GOOD; the cast could not have been better.  I have found that there are the different depths of humor, the obvious cartoonish humor that always gets the kids, but there is also a lot of humor in the dialogue that will get the teenagers and older. I would reccommend anyone give this movie a chance!  Especially if you loved the cartoon! "},{"Title":"Loved it since I was 2 years old, still love it now.","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It's just one of those movies that don't get boring, it's like I could watch it everyday and It still wouldn't go bad, I remember like once I was 6 then didn't want it for like 3 years and I memorized all the words and it still was funny, the deleted scenes where hilarious,make sure to check that out, it's just one of those movies yah know! IMDb is making me type 10 lines but that about sums it up. Ugh YOU DON'T HAVE TO READ THIS PART It's so awesome, it's like awesome because of the actors, the voices just everything is perfect in this movie, it's just a classic and I just introduced this movie to my three year old cousin and he's hooked just like I was! Okay that's it thank you guys for reading this (or not) "},{"Title":"The truth about Scooby Doo!","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie was only fair. Nothing special, they did what they could. My focus is not on the movie, per Se, but about the truth about Scooby Doo that this movie convinces me even more of. You be the judge.1. They are college students that never go to school and are always on the road. They drive in a green van with a psychedelic flower on the side called The Mystery Machine.2. Shaggy has always got the munchies, because his smoking something illegal. Scooby also has the munchies and talks! They both long for Scooby snacks and why? Because the snacks are laced with some experimental LSD, that made that dog talk.3. Fred dresses like and is therefore a total pimp. Daphine is his stable. Notice that they always go off together so that they can do some business. 4 Thelma is the brains of the operation that has got something other than ghosts on her mind.5. Scrappy Doo and Scobby Dumb Scoobys relitives. Ones a crack baby, thats why he is always getting into fights. The other did too much drugs and blew his mind.Put it all together...........THEY ARE DRUG RUNNERS! It makes perfect sense. They drive around from town to town and the supposed Ghost is actually the rival drug lord or gang that they try to oust. They come up with some elaborate scheme to get him and while its going on, Thelma, who always seems to be absent at that moment, is off making the drop and collecting the money. They bust the ghost and beat it out of town before anyone gets wise. Think about it. "},{"Title":"A good first 5 minutes movie, then it sinks like the titanic","Date":"7 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I agree with the proclamation that Scrappy sucked. But, it was a choice to watch or not to watch. There were plenty of the good Scooby cartoons to see instead of.But coming out with a movie, the last thing you do is make it political. It made the movie suck. The beginning was good up until Pamela Anderson showed up. Then all pretentious hell broke loose. Fred became an egomaniac. Daphne became a full time PMS queen. Velma revealed her inferiority complex. And Scooby and Shaggy duked it out.COME ON FOR CHRISTS SAKE!! It takes real talent to bring the magic of a cartoon to the big screen. And that didn't really happen here. Prinze Jr. was the way wrong guy for the part. As individuals, the scooby gang were plain, ordinary type people. Together they were a unique and exciting team. In the movie, too much emphasis was put on each character which made them very superficial and fake. I believe the only two that did the parts justice were Shaggy and Velma. But they needed a better producer with a good script, with love and respect for the original Hanna Barbara episodes, NOT Warner Brothers.Common sense is easy. But because love of the almighty $$ gets in the way at Hollywood, don't ever count on seeing what the people truly want.2 thumbs down and a frown. "},{"Title":"Scooby Doo Goes to Spooky Island","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The popular cartoon hits the silver screen.Scooby crashes a spring break resort to find out why placid college kids have stopped acting 'normal' - like when they drink beer until they vomit.Overly complex script will diss some of the younger viewers, but Scoob is cute. Matt Lillard makes a great 'Shaggy' and Sarah Michelle Gellar is totally hot as 'Daphne', but Fred Prinze as 'Fred' and Linda Cardellini as 'Velma' both suck. Good animation of Scooby, but the sub-plot of Mystery Inc. breaking up is a total drag.Lots of fun for Scooby fanatics. "},{"Title":"My daughter loves it","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" After losing her last copy of the DVD we had to buy another because she missed it so much (and she has 200+ movies to choose from). Get the DVD with SD 1 and 2 on it...great value.As for the movie, I've read some complain that they don't look like the cartoon characters...so what? Who does? Most kids today didn't grow up with SD cartoons, so they don't have to worry about comparing. And IMHO, I think they look close enough...shaggy is spot-on.Anyhow, my daughter has watched both many, many times and still laughs at it, so I give it a 10. First time I saw the fart scene with Shaggy and SD, I damn near wet myself laughing...and I'm 42! "},{"Title":"No Pedigree - Charmless","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby Doo has been recreated in the worst way possible. These are not the well loved cartoon characters. They've been changed, especially Scrappy. (He does have a fan base.) Scooby and Shaggy are in character for most of the film, but even they stray. Velma, Fred & Daphne might wear the clothes, but they're not as we knew them. Scooby is a visually unappealing CGI creation. (Ditto Scrappy.) Shaggy's voice is impressive. However it still remains unfunny and charmless. Some good monster effects. But not really worth it. There is an audience for this, but it isn't children. It's for a more cynical bunch. If you feel nostalgia for any version of the cartoon, then you're better watching the re-runs. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Horrible Rendition","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This was pitiful. I really like the old animated series and as much as the commercialism over the years has soured the image of young sleuths. I felt that it came to pinnacle in this sub-par stab at cashing in on a younger crowd. My favorite character has always been Shaggy and I HATED the actor they found for him. Plus I think that the CG dog kinda spoiled the whole experience even further. Anyways, the plot is pretty lame and the acting is quite poor. There doesn't seem to be any redeeming qualities about this title, with the exception of Daphne's gorgeous body.Hollywood needs to adopt a Live and Let Die mentality and just stop remaking old shows that don't transfer well onto the silver screen. "},{"Title":"this may contains spoilers","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" OK this movie is so not for grown up's and the plot is just so awful it has no great talent we have our character's portrayed by Freddie .as Fred Jones, Matthew as shaggy rogers,Lindaas Velma and last but not least Sarah Michelle as Daphne Blake.Most of them aren't comfortable and the film is so cheesy.and scrappy as a villain is just too dumb and stupid and we all know that this movie is for kids but even the kids Didi;t enjoy it.this movie is gonna be nominated the worst movie ever my opinion is that they should not be making any sequels or should they making this highest paid movie everso it deserves a pretty poor rating 3/10 "}{"Title":"It just does not work..","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" it did not follow the characters at all very well, in the ways of personality. Daphne Ann Blake is not supposed to be a kick butt girl nor never smart that is what Velma Dace Dinkley is for...with Daphne taking over that role Velma has no place to fit in. As for Scrappy-Doo he would never do this to his uncle Scooby, he looks up to him way to much. Also the animation of Scooby was poorly done... but all in all a good attempt but still not good. If they really want to make a good movie stick the personalities of all the characters and have a better plot. I was not expecting it to be good but i have to say it could have been worse. "},{"Title":"live action Scooby Doo movie","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" this is a fun,entertaining,family movie.it's silly at times,but it's supposed t o be.it's also very funny.as far as i can tell,it's pretty faithful to the cartoon.the casting was good,particularly Matthew Lillard who does a bang on impersonation of Shaggy.and you can can't go wrong with Linda Cardellina as Velma.not only is she a good actress,but she really looks the part.Freddie Prinze Jr and Sarah Michelle are also good Gellar are also good as Fred and Daphne.this movie is not a cinematic masterpiece,but it doesn't try to be.i laughed quite a bit and just generally enjoyed the movie.Rowan Atkinson even has a role in the movie.a lot of the comedy in this movie is of the physical type.there are lots of pratfalls in this movie.there are also a few fight scenes which are of course over the top,and fun to watch.i was actually pretty impressed with how well the actors interacted with a cgi Scooby Doo.that looked pretty realistic to me.the ending was different that i expected,in a good way.overall,this is just an entertaining,fun ride.i give the live action version of Scooby Doo 8/10 "},{"Title":"Scooby Doo, Where Are You?","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" So yeah, I don't really remember if I have seen this movie in the theaters, pay-per view, or DVD but I do remember I saw this movie and this movie is.. what should I say.. it's good. Just not great.Here's why. Since when has Scrappy-Doo, if that's the little dog's name, been evil? Why would he be kicked out of the gang because he's a dog and he urinated on Daphne? Scooby-Doo does worse and he doesn't get kicked out. So this just doesn't make any sense.This movie has selected the worse actors to play Daphne, and Fred? Linda Cardellini was good to play Velma though. Maybe they chose Freddie Prinze Jr. because his name is Fred, also, they thought he was a good actor. Maybe it's just the name. Fred doesn't act like he listens to hip hop and hes flirty. Since when was he immature in the series? Maybe in some of the movies, but he wasn't that much immature in the movies.Why did they choose Buffy's Sarah Gellar to play Daphne? I don't see Daphne acting that much of a prep in the series. She's rich, but I don't see her acting that much as a preppy snob. And I didn't mind that. I just didn't think Sarah Gellar should've played Daphne. She didn't fit the part and she doesn't even look like her.But anywho, everything else was great, except the characters besides Velma and Shaggy and Scooby, and except Scrappy.I recommend this movie if you like Scooby Doo.. Since all this was just my opinion. Everyone else seemed to like it so I guess.. Yeah. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Family Movie","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I absolutely loved Scooby Doo one. I think it is such a great family movies with brilliant laugh-out-loud moments and a great. The cast deliver there lines and actions towards the cgi Scooby surprisingly well. Sarah Michelle Gellar (Daphne) and husband Freddie Prinze Junior (Fred) are great on screen together and Linda Cardilli (Velma) plays the lovable nerd character alongside Matthew Lillard (Shaggy) who probable is one of the best actors in the movie beside smg who is just amazing.Scooby Doo is a great family movie and it upsets me when I see people rate it as an adult movie. It is for children but still keeps me entertained every time I watch it.I gave Scooby Doo 8/10 and it is definitely in my Favourite Movies List. "},{"Title":"walked out in about half an hour","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I'd have to say I didn't like this movie as much as the Aardman films. though it was OK in certain ways.I watched SCOOBY-DOO when I was only five years old.Even though I am a kid I am completely a computer geek I like looking at things about filmmakers,and I have been making IMDb reviews ever since THE MORPH FILES.Though I walked out after about half an hour of the movie probably because I was to young.I completely blamed my parents for making me watch SCOOBY-DOO.though 3 years later I watched it again and I wasn't scared because I was 8 years old though some parts were definitely weird which is why I didn't like it as much as the Aardman films.so if you are looking for good ghost movies this probably isn't the movie for you.If you are looking for good ghost movies I would much prefer movies such as CASPER or GHOSTBUSTERS. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is a pretty good movie. Sure it's goofy and freaky in some parts, but it's not stupid like some other movies (coughSCARYMOVIEcough). I think the actors they got to play the Mystery Inc. gang matched their characters personalities very well, especially the actors playing Shaggy and Scooby. It was very funny when Fred and Daphne were in each other's bodies and the Daemen Ritus (is that how you spell it?) kept switching everyone's protoplasm around. It was also pretty cool when Daphne, the one who always ends up the damsel in distress, was fighting, and beat, the masked wrestler. She's actually the one who ended up saving the day, if you really look at it. And Scrappy as a villain? I didn't even think that was possible. Well done guys, well done. "},{"Title":"a cartoon i real life form...genius","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" i watched this absolutely ages ago...i loved scooby doo...but when you get older you start to lose interest but as my sister made me go and watch it...i fell in love with it...so much that i watched it that many times that i know the whole script...SMG is just the best...i wish that i could act like her and become as famous as she is!this film is genius.To also include characters that you wouldn't think would be in it is also genius.There is no way that you could watch this film and not like it...this film also introduced me to sugar ray...they are no one of my favourite bands i have ever seen they are awesome...the icing on the cake! "},{"Title":"What did I think..","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Well I am a former child of the Old Scooby Doo cartoons and shows. I was a HUGE fan and i loved Scooby he was my all time favorite cartoon. I was even him in a school play ) i was very excited. Now when i heard they were making a movie, and actual movie with him I have to say i wasn't looking forward to it at all, i figured that would mess it up as they have so many others from when i was growing up. But oldest daughter however was and is a HUGE fan of the show, and Scooby so when the movie came out i figured i would take the kids, grin and bare it and let them enjoy it whether i did or not... but i have to say I REALLY DID ENJOY IT. Scooby was just as i had always imagined he would be and the character of Shaggy i honestly didn't think they would find anyone who could pull that off, but i was so thoroughly impressed with Matthew Lillard as Shaggy he nailed right down to the walk, I love him.. he was to me the epitome of Shaggy exactly what i had in my mind. The others did well also as i didn't think they would pull if off, but to my surprise they did a geat job they worked well with one another and complimented one another as well. It was great to see something that was so endeared as a child be something my kids could have that love for now. I recommend it to anyone who wants to see it or who is a true fan of the old show. They didn't ruin it, they did it justice. "},{"Title":"Not as good as sequel...","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby Doo really caught my attention. After I watched Scooby Doo 2, it became my favorite movie, but this is about Scooby Doo, which isn't as good as Scooby Doo 2, but still was good. Scooby Doo seems to combine a lot of different genres. It has action, suspense, comedy, mystery, and adventure, all in one movie. However, I think that Shaggy (Matthew Lillard) basically, in the end, took over the show. He was the guy that seemed to save the day in the end of the movie by saving Scooby Doo, and being the only one that did not get captured. Despite that part, it did sort of seem cool that Scrappy Doo was the enemy in the end. It sort of linked to the part where Velma was talking about how they had kicked out Scrappy. I would recommend this to anyone, except for those that don't like Scooby Doo 2. If you already don't like Scooby Doo 2, I guarantee you won't like this movie. It's not quite as good. "},{"Title":"Great movie for the Scooby-obsessed!","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Who in their right mind rated this movie as being worse than Freddy vs Jason? Anyone who grew up watching Scooby-Doo every week (or everyday, in my case) should love this movie! It follows the standard Scooby-Doo rules and plot line. Much of it is reminiscent of the old show, except that in this case many of the monsters turn out to be real. The gang has to solve a mystery at Spooky Island, a mysterious theme park. While they let their pride get in the way of their friendships for awhile, they finally come to their senses and realize that they must work together to solve the mystery. And Matthew Lillard was BRILLIANT as Shaggy. I was amazed at how well he did Shaggy's voice and mannerisms! "}{"Title":"Scooby & the gang  search for mystery clues with mixed results","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" A sincere effort to have some fun with the old cartoon series, but the movie encounters some of the all-too-common problems of these cartoon-to-live-action remake movies. Making the leap from 2-D animation to 3-D reality is awkward at best, and proper casting can make the movie sink or swim. Also, it's difficult to point at just who your target audience is. Scooby Doo was a great cartoon. The writing was clever, the characters were lovable, the action continuous, the mysteries fun (and easy) to solve, and the comic-chase routine was predictable but fun in a 3 Stooges type way. It's apparent that the writer, director, and the cast all had fond memories of the show as well, and had a party doing this movie.Matthew Lillard and Linda Cardinelli breathe life into Shaggy and Velma so well, you'd swear these characters returned from your childhood memories. Not only do they look like their animated counterparts, but they capture the nuances of those characters (right down to Shaggy's laugh and Velma's nasally voice) as well. Many actors have tried to bring cartoon characters to live action movies; few have accomplished it as well as Lillard and Cardinelli did here. The animation of Scooby is respectable he looks slightly different, but enough the same that it works. The CGI movements are well done, and fit his personality.However, Freddie Prinze and Sarah Michelle Gellar were miscast. Prinze just mugs for the camera, and Gellar looks more like she's doing a Buffy episode, complete with over-the-top fight scenes. Neither one looks or acts at all like their character (to their credit, both actors improved in the sequel).Also, the movie tries to fill in gaps of where the gang has been, which just bogs down the story. There are some scenes far more scary than the original series would ever delve into, such as disembodied spirits being imprisoned, mind control, zombies, etc. If the target demographic was small children, these elements were too strong. In other ways, too, it strays from the theme of the old cartoon series. On the positive side, the movie is cleverly written, although the plot is a little too complex for children to follow. There are good gags, some that kids would understand, and others for an older audience. Outside of the scary scenes, the movie has a lot of good natured silliness. The movie does not disappoint with the humorous mystery solution surprise (especially funny for fans of the original cartoon).If you can overlook the movie's weaknesses, it should still be a decent watch for some goofy and nostalgic fun. The sequel, however, is a little more consistent with the theme of the original cartoon. "},{"Title":"I have sat through this with one eye about 5x's now thanks to my two year old...","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" ...and its not that bad.Lets start with the high-lights, Matthew Lillard a perfect shaggy. Linda Cardellini, a better then perfect Velma Dinkley due to her body, AND her portrayal was spot on too. I was not impressed with Fred or Daphne the characters were not at all true to the original cartoon.(I am 41). Scooby-Doo himself tho not perfectly animated or cg'ed was true to the character. The story was silly and also pretty true to the cartoon, as were the chase scenes, well not quite as crazy as the cartoon, after all these are real people not cartoon characters.All in all worth the waste of the 80 or 90 minutes that it is long, ex-specially when spent with my son, who was glued to it. "},{"Title":"great","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" i love this film i remember the cartoons growing up tonight i watched the movie it was brilliant i closed by eyes and i was back in the cartoon. shaggy and the gang was perfect and even had the mystery machine and Cornie baddies which i still don't get it right. i have to give a special mention to Sarah Michelle geller this girl is so hot and sexy the shorts skirts looked great. every member of the cast was great. like many true fans i hate scrappy and was glad of the results. i really look forward to seeing the second and hopefully more films to come from the scooby doo gang fighting the baddies, scraggy and scooby eating all hate food in sight please more. "},{"Title":"Just About As Bad As It Gets","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" ZoinksThis was a horrible, HORRIBLE film that literally makes me ill just thinking about it. Raja Gosnell is all the way unworthy of being called a filmmaker, and ever since he took on the job of disrespecting the classic Your, Mine and Ours, which was a childhood favorite, he was personally put on my hit-man list. Scoobys poor animation only makes everything worse. The humor wasn't funny, It was crude, childish, immature, and far off from respect of the original cartoon. I wasn't a big fan of it from the beginning, but even I had more respect for the series than this movie did.Anyone notice that throughout the film there's this certain chemistry between Fred and Velma. So I thought, that's weird, I always thought Fred and Daphne had a thing going for them. Then, without a second to spare, the whole romantic chemistry blew up in my face. At the end Fred went with Daphne, and Velma went to some loser that doesn't matter. OK, what's up with that, honestly?That was my first biggest problem. My number one reason for despising this flick is a little pup named Scrappy. I've seen a couple of episodes with this son of a devil dog. I hated him, always have hated him, and always will HATE him! I thought surely they wouldn't be dumb enough to bring him into the story. Sure enough, they did, and from then on this became on of my most hated movies of all time.The only credit I give to this film is that the leading actors did a good job with their characters, specially Shaggy.1/2/**** starsScooby-Doo (2002) Rated PG for rude humor, some language and scary images "},{"Title":"A successful transition to the big screen.","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I'm not ashamed to admit it &#150; I'm in my late 30s and I love this movie!Scooby and the Mystery Inc. gang travel to Spooky Island after being invited to investigate a series of paranormal incidents. But is the owner of the island resort involved and will the gang discover the secret behind the strange occurrences? Kudos to all of the cast, who manage to bring the 2D characters to life perfectly. Freddie Prinze Jr. convinces as Fred, the pretty-boy leader of the group. Sarah Michelle Gellar as Daphne is something special &#150; all push up bras, lip gloss, short short dresses and PVC boots. Linda Cardellini is the Velma you always suspected lurked beneath that roll neck sweater &#150; a pillow chested nerd, brainy AND sexy. Matthew Lillard is perfect as the slacker Shaggy (probably the best of the lot with his spot-on voice and remarkable resemblance to his animated counterpart). Scooby, of course, is CGI - not the greatest CGI, but that doesn't matter because the character is so much fun.In addition, there is a great performance from a creepy Rowan Atkinson and a sexy turn from gorgeous Isla Fisher as Shaggy's girlfriend.The movie is funny, silly and scary (possibly a little bit TOO scary for some kids) and director Raja Gosnell handles proceedings well. At points the plot may become a tad confusing for youngsters, but this is a minor niggle. The set designs, costumes, effects and props are uniformly impressive - from the day-glo Spooky Island attractions to the demon creatures, everything looks great.Kick back and enjoy this for what it is &#150; a highly amusing, fun filled roller-coaster ride. "},{"Title":"Awww!!","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby-Doo is a kid's movie. It revolves around Scooby-Doo and his crime solving friends who work under the same umbrella of Mystery Inc. After choosing their own ways, they are invited to Spooky Island by its owner Emile Mondavarious(played by Rowan Atkinson). Scooby-Doo, Shaggy, Fred, Daphne and Velma team up to investigate the weird paranormal incidents in Spooky Island. The entire stuff is weird and beyond ridiculous. I wouldn't say that if it was a cartoon but seeing all those actors with that silly look and acting, I cant stop wishing that it was made as a cartoon rather than a movie. There is no cleavage in the making of the film. We don't know where it is going to but we don't care either. I think today's children are so clever that they wouldn't even enjoy it like their other average movies. All computer stuff used in the film is the fun of it. It is the only positive element of this movie but it is not enough to save Scobby-Doo. The viewers like me are disappointed to see Scobby-Doo like that and prefer to have it in its dusty shelf rather than in a pathetic, messy movie. A bad one. * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Oh My God!","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie shouldn't even be allowed to be seen. Why is Freddie Prinze Jr. even alive? He has no talent what so ever all he is, is a f*king pretty face and he's not even that good looking. I love Matthew Lillard and he probably did the best job, but still this movie lacked everything that I stand for. I am more of an Indie movie girl, but I like to watch the main stream as well. AND I HATED IT. I give it 0 ZERO out of TEN stars. A waste of space. I could have made a better movie. I have seen enough kids movies (because i am bored out of my scull) and this one is stupid and pointless. I would be ashamed. People STOP LISTENING TO the New York Times and Ebert & Roeper, most of the time they don't review the movies I am interested, but if they do, they usually review it good when it's crap. "},{"Title":"Scooby Doo 3","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby Doo 3 Even if people say that they should stop making movies like Scooby Doo they're wrong and they should make a Scooby Doo 3. The reasons are that movies like Spiderman 3 aren't that exciting. Whats the plot anyway? Also the first Scooby Doo was a big hit it made more that 50 million dollars. And Scooby Doo is a classic funny cartoon from the 90's.Freddie Prinze Jr, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Linda Cardellini , Matthew Lillard are great actors. I think if they ever make a Scooby Doo 3 they should be included. Freddie Prinze Jr as Fred makes a great Fred, although he was too dramatic. rating on Freddie as Fred is 8. Sarah Michelle Gellar as Daphne acted great, except she pretty much acted the same as Buffy. rating on Sarah as Daphne is 9.5 Linda Cardellini as Velma acted great!rating on Linda as Velma is 10 Matthew Lillard as Shaggy acted well, but I am sure the director could of found somebody much better.rating on Matthew as Shaggy is 7.5 The movies Scooby Doo 1 and 2 were awesome. But Scooby Doo the movie didn't relate to the cartoon series but it was better than the second one. I rate it a 10. Scooby Doo 2 pretty much was like the series and I liked it.But I think the perfect title should be Scooby Doo 2 Monsters United. I rate it a 9.5. All of the Scooby Doo Movies were cool and I especially think THERE SHOULD BE A SCOOBY-DOO 3 !!! "},{"Title":"A very well created film.","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" A very well made film based on the canine character Scooby-Doo. The cartoon from the late 1960s to the early 1970s. But this version of Scooby-Doo has a more modern identity especially when it comes to the music. E.g- Rock and Hip-Hop, but the film succeeded very well. This also refers to the characters and the Scooby Doo himself. It sounds just like Scooby-Doo and same thing with the mannerisms e.g- always hungry and cowardly at heart, and he would do anything for Scooby snacks. And it was not disappointing like Garfield and The Cat In The Hat. It seems for those cartoon characters, the screenwriter did NOT pay close attention to the details.The actors and actresses were very well chosen for this film and that mystery van, I was impressed with. It looks just like the one from the cartoon series. The creator of this film, James Gunn loved Scooby Doo since he was a child. He certainly paid close attention to the details of every character and set. Well Done, James!!! The film was about Shaggy (Matthew Williard) and Scooby ( Neil Fanning) going to Spooky Island and there at the airport, they bumped into Fred (Freddie Prinze Jr), Velma (Linda Cardellini)and Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar). The group split up due to a scrap they had at the last mystery search, and in the end they all reunite once more. And Shag fell in love with a girl on the plane named Mary Jane (Isla Fisher).Anyways, when the group got to the island, it looked like  Voodoo Hawaii to me with all those voodoo-like Tiki Gods and that bridge made of elephants tusks. The island was owned by Emile Mondaverious (Rowan Atkinson); and he told the gang that he believed someone was casting spells on the students due to their behavior. E.g- Acting in an aggressive manner. Now, this was what made this film better to the cartoon series, they were no longer fantasy disguised villains, there were monsters! Soon, the group met at the Spooky Castle on the top of the mountain, it used to be some spooky ride. There was another thing that I am sure of what all Scooby Doo lovers have seen in the cartoon series. Shag and Scoob always stick together when it comes to a mystery when the gang splits up.Well, enough of that. Back to the amulet story, Velma was observing the hieroglyphics on the amulet which Daphne discovered at Spooky Castle when the giant amulet nearly swallowed her up. Velma opened it and found a knob. And when she turned it, it divided into many flat diamonds with rituals on them and she said Jinkies! Now, that's like Velma! And when she loses her classes, we all know what she is going to say My glasses!!! Now that's a lot like Velma!! There was cute scene with the gang driving off somewhere in the mystery van and Scrappy-Doo , who is Scooby's nephew (Scott Innes). He says Ta-da-da-da-da, Puppppy Powwer!!! And he peed. HA!HA!HA! Cute. And it seems, Scrappy wasn't a puppy, he was a dog with a gland disorder, which probably made him small , I guess.I dug that scene when Velma thought the monster she bumped into was a fantasy disguised villain, she tried to pull off it's mask and then, SURPRISE, SURPRISE!! MONSTERS DID EXIST!!! Hmm, those monsters were very well created with graphics and effects they had.Soon, Shag and Scoob noticed something was up with Fred, Velma Daphne and Mary Jane when they breathed out green gas and so did the rest of the people on the island. They were all possessed! And not so soon, Shaggy discovered a pool underground which contained every person's soul who was on the island. And when he found his friends' souls, they returned to their bodies one by one. There was a lot of comedy when this happened. Fred's soul got into Daphne's body and Daphne's soul got into Fred's body. And then, Fred said Now, I can see myself naked in the mirror! Later on in the film, Scoob noticed there was something wrong with Mondavarious, he wanted Scoob to become a sacrifice. And underground, where all this sacrifice stuff was about to begin, the gang made a plan when the End of the World party was being celebrated with dance-like ceremonial melody for Scooby to become the sacrifice. And suddenly, a giant disco skull shot out of nowhere and it shone so brightly that it destroyed the monsters in every person's body. And the time came when the gang wanted to know who  Mondavarious was, he was a robot controlled by Scrappy from the inside. That's really neat, for a small guy! Suddenly, Scrappy absorbed all the energy from the amulet and he turned into  Scrappy Rex ( voice by J.P Manoux), he grabbed Scooby and then, Scooby attacked Scrappy's nose hairs and Scrappy sneezed. HA!HA! Scrappy Rex turned back into Scrappy- Doo!!! And, the real Mondavarious was discovered trapped under an underground trapdoor. He looked like he had been trapped in the ground for years! And the island was saved as all the souls returned to their bodies , Scrappy was arrested and the island was safe once again. "},{"Title":"The gang find themselves in an island called Spooky Island and are solving a problem that is going on at this Island.","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Scooby Doo is a very good movie although Scooby Doo 2 is better.The gang find themselves in an island called Spooky Island and are solving a problem that is going on at this Island.The gang break up near the beginning of the film and then make up to solve the mystery together.Matthew Lillard was fantastic as Shaggy and Freddie Prince Jr really matched Fred and Sarah Michelle Gellar was fantastic as Daphne too and Linda Cardellini was great as Velma.Linda Cardellini's movies are good and I most particularly like Good Burger and Scooby Doo.Sarah Michelle Gellar's movies are good too,especially the T.V. series Buffy the vampire slayer and I also like Matthew Lillard's movies as well such as Scream. "}{"Title":"Makes you feel as if you are watching the cartoon again","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" and that's what it should do.Finally a movie that does the product upon which it is based some justice.I absolutely grew up on this cartoon as a kid, so I was really excited about taking my kids to see this when it first came out.They also are big Scooby fans because their television stays tuned to Cartoon Network religiously.I think this movie did an excellent job of capturing the spirit of the TV show, just so long as Batman or the Three Stooges didn't turn up in it, I was cool with it.Hats off to the actor who played Shaggy, to be able to interact like that with a character who is not there and thus make it believable, takes true talent.And sure all the cast had to interact with Scoob, but none had to show the chemistry with him Shaggy did.I also think the actress who played Velma did a pretty good job of bringing the geeky Velma to life...considering I've seen this actress in other films and she's actually very beautiful.Fred and Daphne were okay. I've never been big fans of Sarah Michelle Gellar or her husband's acting ability and I think the two are EXTREMELY overrated.So sue me.One extremely funny scene was where everyone's protoplasm kept switching bodies (i.e. Fred would be trapped in Velma's body).Overall fun way to occupy a boring Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"brilliant!!!","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I wasn't expecting much of this and was pleasantly surprised - I thought it had great humour, and it was brilliantly cast, especially Shaggy although I did notice that Matthew Lillard does not do the voice which was the only disappointment. It is a fantastic film well worth watching, it made me laugh so much although that might just be my childish sense of humour! Even though it didn't have much to do with the original cartoons, I still enjoyed the twist at the end (which was NOT predicable!) The soundtrack is great, very catchy tunes which I discovered my brother singing more than once. The second one, 'Monsters Unleashed,' was better though, as it has more humour which made me laugh until I cried! "},{"Title":"Totally inoffensive and quite boring to put it mild.","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I was never a big fan of the old Scooby cartoons from Hanna-Barbera but I thought maybe the live-action movie could be interesting to watch, especially because it was a Warner Bros. release who are the best studio when it comes to animation and live-action mix. I was of course immensely disappointed. The opening scene where Fred (the always dull Freddie Prinze, Jr.) tries to hog the spotlight and the resulting split of the group is rather clever. It tampers with the conventions of the old show and that is usually why I like such features as this. Then we get to the main plot about the amusement park and all I can say is Who cares?. Rowan Atkinson, who plays the shady owner, is definitely my favorite for the worst actor of the year.Each of the four human Mystery Gang members are performed as best as they could be, although I would have liked to see the role of Daphne played by another than Sarah Michelle Gellar because she is way too cool and to think of her as a damsel in distress is almost impossible. Of course, we all know that she and Prinze Jr. are a real life couple and that she was linked with the WB Network at the time, so that is pretty much all she wrote. Velma is the best reason why you should waste time seeing this because of the smart versus attractive element of her character and as many people have interpreted maybe she has a crush on Daphne. This is not put directly in your face of course because after all this is a movie for kids and the rather lame innuendo in Shaggy's van (it's smoking - well, I never) should have been cut. Not because it is going to far but because it is such an easy target to pursue.So the most positive thing you can say about Scooby-Doo is that you never see anything remotely offensive and that the characters are adequate. Scooby-Doo himself is of course annoying but you can't make the movie called Scooby-Doo and then not give him any screen time, although that what have been something. Frank Welker and Casey Kasem would probably not even show this to their own grandchildren and Joe Barbera would not even see it I suppose. "},{"Title":"Pretty interesting, actually...","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This might have a few minor spoilers.Now, I am a fan of the CLASSIC Scooby-Doo cartoons, so when my parents rented this on video to see with their friends, I decided to check it out.First of all, they have a good cast for the Mystery Inc. gang. (They used to be called the Scooby-Doo Detective Agency, by the way.) Matthew Lillard's Shaggy is pretty good... at some parts you might think it's actually Casey Kasem playing the famous cartoon beatnik! Also, Sarah Michelle Gellar makes a sexy Daphne, too! The CGI Scooby... well, he is all right, I suppose. He does act like the cartoon Scooby, and he is kinda cute, but I think the cartoon Scooby is cuter and funnier. The voice Scooby has in this is pretty poor-sounding, and it is no match for Don Messick's classic Scooby doggie voice.Also, the plot is slightly interesting. They do have a few references to the classic Scooby cartoons, such as using some of the old Hanna-Barbera sound effects (like the bongo sound before Scooby takes off) mixed with the standard sound effects you hear on most recent live-action WB feature films, and Fred has his ascot, too. Also, they do have songs playing during the old chases against the villains, but for the ultimate chase, they use a rock version of the Scooby-Doo theme! Ironic, huh? Also, I find this a lot like a live-action version of Warner Bros. Animation's incarnations of the Scooby cartoons (Zombie Island, What's New Scooby, etc.) Also, there are SOME real monsters in it, too. And, of course... SCRAPPY-DOO is in it! He even actually PEES on Daphne! But thankfully Scrappy isn't in it much. I advise those Scrappy-Doo fans out there to NOT watch this film! Overall, a good film and you should check it out. "},{"Title":"CGI Scooby left me howling with laughter","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" When I saw a trailer for Scooby Doo the Movie, I kid you not everyone in the cinema collectively groaned. A film of Scooby Doo? With a CGI Scooby? And Buffy?Still part of me was tempted - what could be funnier than a talking dog?Holy cow it was hilarious - Shaggy and Scooby MAKE this film. They are both perfect. The tone does start to grate after a while - it could have done with being about 30 minutes shorter, but apart from that it was a real pleasant surprise.Zoiks! "},{"Title":"Scooby dooby doo","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Mystery Inc has problems. Velma Dinkley(Linda Cardellini)feels as if she is nothing but a recruit for smarts. Daphne Blake(Sarah Michelle Gellar)feels as if everyone things that she's just a danzel in distress, Shaggy Rogers(Matthew Lillard) feels as if everyone thinks he just a funny guy.........In other words everyone interconnected with Mystery Inc feels as if they are better than the other.So when the Inc breaks up and goes there separate ways we see different attitudes come and go. The only ones to remain the same is Shaggy and Scooby. So when they are all drafted in to check out an amusement park, they all go crazy.Watch to find out the best action ever. Sequel is better. "},{"Title":"Totally destroys the original spirit.","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I was an avid fan of the original cartoon series as a kid. So I was indeed delighted to know that finally there's going to be a big screen adaptation. But I think it's better to tell the truth quite plainly -- this is one of the worst cartoon-to-film adaptations ever. It totally destroys the original spirit of the film. Scrappy Doo is the villain? What were they thinking? Is there such lack of villainous characters? And the basic idea with protoplasm! My goodness! Can film-making reach such a low level? And characterization this Fred is nothing like the original, cool-headed, sensible Fred we see in the cartoons. And finally for Scooby himself, he is one of the most pathetic CGI characters I've ever seen. See what treat he's given he dresses up like Grandma! Such screenplay.But it didn't have to be like this. The casting, I must say, is quite appropriate. Linda Cardellini is awesome as Velma and so is Matt Lillard as Shaggy. Really the performances of these two steal the show in this otherwise pathetic movie. Sarah Gellar looks alright as Daphne and I won't mind Freddie Prinze Jr. as Fred as long as they keep his character correct. The whole movie crashed down due to lack of a decent plot. Apart from that it really had potentials to become a fan favorite. "},{"Title":"Matthew Lillard STEALS the show.","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Seriously, 'Scooby Doo' should not be 4.8 on IMDb. Does anyone remember the cartoon as not being cheesy. Cause 'Scooby Doo' the movie is a) a kid's film primarily and b) very very cheesy.....but it's a lot of fun. This film belongs to a CGI cartoony Scooby Doo and Matthew Lillard as Shaggy. Could you imagine anyone else playing Shaggy? I can't! I could imagine anyone else playing the rest of the cast easily, but don't get me wrong, they did a good job too- particular Linda Cardillini as the geeky Velma. But really, Matthew Lillard is so impressive in this film as it is he steals the show as practically a replica in live-action of the cartoon character in Shaggy. And let's face it, they had to get Shaggy right and they did! I also liked the reference to Scrappy Doo as the Mystery Inc. team member who hogged the glory, which nicely took a swipe at how direction of the cartoon went with Scrappy Doo in it. Also, the fact that Scrappy was the bad guy (errr, puppy) was funny too. Freddie Prince Jnr, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Isla Fisher and Rowan Atkinson do a fine job in this fun flick. If you're looking for intellectual ducational stimulation, then why are you watching this movie? If you are disgruntled fan of the cartoon that hates the movie, then what did you expect? Cause, in my mind, it's a pretty faithful film to the dynamic of a really cheesy cartoon. It's basically a live action version of a very cheesy cartoon. Unlike 'Garfield', the live action version of 'Scooby Doo' works fine. And although 'The Flintstones' movie did a reasonably good job with John Goodman as Fred Flintstone, I think Matthew Lillard's Shaggy is the most accurate depiction of a cartoon character to date!***½ out of *****! "},{"Title":"At least they got Scrappy right","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Gang split up, then are invited to Spookie Island to solve a case, and inevitably re-group again.It starts off okay in the beginning, right up to the point where Pam Anderson comes in driving the Mystery Machine. Then it all goes downhill.The sets were obvious, you could tell that the hotel was made from scratch by the various wood furniture, found in most normal 3 star hotels in the world. One would expect an island theme park hotel to be at least a LITTLE theme like.The actors were hammy, especially Freddie Prinze Jr., who practically murdered the character he was portraying, in fact, the only actors that were fairly good were Rowan Atkinson, who was already experienced with the kind of character he was playing from his career as Mr. Bean and his various comedy performances, and Matt Lillard, who actually preformed his own stunts.The other good points about the movie were the fairly good graphics of Scooby Doo and Scrappy, and Scrappy's few, but very good (and very funny) lines.Scooby-Doo is a good Kid's movie, but it may as well have been Scooby-Dumb and it wouldn't have made a difference. "},{"Title":"Funny and entertaining film for adults of all ages","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is not too much like the Scooby Doo cartoons to be boring or silly, although the opening scene is.Most of the film is set on Spooky Island, and the team try to unravel the mystery as to what is going on. Brilliant ending.Some good deleted scenes on the extras section of this DVD which are worth watching too. Well made animation and acting, it has the feel of the original where the cartoon was good, but not the bad parts of the old cartoons.This film is more science fiction/comedy than a kids cartoon-type story, and I would not recommend it for young children, it is more an adult version of Scooby Doo, (although nothing to get it an 18-rating). All innocent fun, but some scenes might be scary to children.Spoilers I like the way they dealt with the most awful cartoon character ever, Scrappy Doo, when they threw him out of the van, in a flashback. I thought, hooray, Scrappy Doo is gone for good! I hated him always, he ruined the cartoons when I used to watch it years ago as a kid. But then they brought him back as the evil bad guy at the end, which was kind of weird, to think that all along Scrappy Doo was evil and not so good or cute after all, as some have said he was. I knew he was bad, i.e. he ruined the cartoons, but did not expect him to turn out so evil in the film -- which made for a very interesting and surprising ending. Well done the film makers, for finally putting Scrappy Doo in the level of the poo where he belongs. "}{"Title":"Why?","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" this film leaves me asking one question, the one above funnily enough. it was shockingly bad on absolutely every level imaginable. they cant even scoop credit for the animation because it was crap. how they managed to pay Rowan Atkinson (thats Mr bean to you yanks) to degrade himself by having anything to do with this pile of erm... sh-t. furthermore i have often asked myself how they managed to get so many *cough cough* credible actors to *cough cough* star in this monstrosity. after racking my brain for almost 2 seconds, i concluded that they were paid nearly as much as the acting talent they possess, actually no. not only that but they also made a sequel. are they too stupid to learn from their mistakes? this movie was a mistake and watching it was a mistake. not killing myself after seeing it was a mistake. id rather give birth to a giant razor-blade through my rectum than be forced to watch this again.to be fair, though it didn't really have much to live up to, the cartoon was pathetic. in conclusion its a film for children. really really simple-minded children, and probably made by children with needs at gunpoint. watch only at your peril "},{"Title":"What about Velma?","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" If you watch the movie on DVD and look at the deleted scenes like the one in the little bar when Velma is drinking and Fred and Daphne come down the stairs. Velma starts to sing a love song and you can't really tell if she is looking at Fred or Daphne. Are they trying to make you think Velma is gay and in love with Daphne? And at the end of the movie when the guy who like her is gets really close and looks like he wants to kiss her Velma laughs and says Your fogging up my glasses and punches him in the shoulder then walks away. But in part two she falls in love with Patrick(Seth Green) kinda doesn't make sense huh? And BTW I loved both movies and my kids do too. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" If you are considering watching the movie Don't. Not even if it's for free and you have nothing better to do.Even Sarah Michelle Gellar doesn't make up for the terrible acting (Matthew Lillard at his worst - and that says something), stupid jokes, and mediocre special effects.'nuff said. It's not even worth a rant. I give it 2 out of 10 since the 1 is reserved for Plan 9 from outer space.... ... ... "},{"Title":"scooby-do see","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo is a great family film. Although it would have been hilarious if they would of kept the more adult theme it was still a great movie. I have yet to see the second one. It isn't easy to do that with no money as a college student, and your stupid roommate hates the movie. But it is all out a great movie. Mathew Lillard played an awesome Shaggy. But Sarah Geller as Dalphnie, not the best. Other than that The casting wasen't that bad. I recommend this as a movie to watch with the family.Respectfully submitted,Zack  "},{"Title":"No spoilers! I Didn't see enough of the movie!","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The Summary line was correct for the first viewing, I was on the street within half an hour of this disgrace starting to screen. Some people say after a bad movie that they will never have that hour and a half back, I felt this way after 30 minutes! And thirty minutes isn't much!. I could have watched a puddle form, or grass grow, or leaves gently float to the ground in the fall (I had to give myself happy images as all the terrible ones from this movie have suddenly come flooding back!) I don't know how this movie took so much at the box office, I could only think insomniacs used it as a way to help them get to sleep! Or children who have never seen the original cartoon watched it and were dazzled by all the pretty colors, oooo pretty colors. Shaggy was good, Scooby looked animated, Rowan Atkinson is a great physical comedian, not in this, Sarah Michelle-Gellar's a babe, not in this, Freddy was in this but might have been better if..., not in this.  "},{"Title":"Fans of the original cartoon will be bewildered with disappointment.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A disgrace to the original, or maybe the hammy, corny style of the cartoon should have stayed animated.On a big movie screen, it looks so bad its not funny.Literally. There is nothing funny about this movie. Of minor interest is a cameo from Rowan Atkinson as the evil amusement park owner, an infamous stock character from the cartoon.Kiddies may enjoy its bright, wholesome flavour. Though there are indeed some suggestions of unsuitable material thrown in as token head-nods to adults seeing it with their kids.1/10. Stick with the animated version. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking...","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  By cutting out all of the extra scenes, they excluded what would have been great adult humor for fans of the show that have already grown up. If you ever get to rent the DVD, take a look and you'll see, that the movie makes much more sense and is a lot funnier with the added scenes included.Besides the fact that the plot is virtually non-existent in this story, there are some good points to point out. For one, Matthew Lillard creates a fabulous performance at portraying the loveable Shaggy from the cartoons. And Rowan Atkinson's mere presence helps to give it a boost.Sarah Michelle Gellar, seems out of place in this movie. Try as hard as she might, I don't think she will ever escape the image of being the rip-your-throat-out-and-feed-it-to-the-dogs Buffy that we have all come to love and know. Besides, she looks better as a blond too. It just seems completely unbelievable for her to play the damsel in distress and it kind of makes it look silly for her character to go hand-to-hand combat with her foes. I predict that from now on, all her future movies will have her doing some kung fu fighting in order to live up to that image, and if it doesn't it'll be a flop (maybe) ;) "},{"Title":"Not as bad as what they say!","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  There was a little doggy. He had four friends. They solved mysteries in their 'Mystery Machine' and unmasked a new villian every week. But the villain always said the same which became its catchphrase. And I would have gotten away with it too! If it wasn't for you meddling kids and that dog! Yes....I liked Scooby Doo. I still doo... sorry, do. I used to, and still, watch every day when I get home from work. So I was skeptical about a movie of my favourite hound being turned into a computer animation. But still, for me,...it worked! Matthew Lilard was great as Shaggy. Freddie Prinz Jr. wern't bad as Fred. He was a little 'up himself', if you will. Daphnie seemed a little like a spoilt brat but Velma, along with Shaggy, was the only one to survive the transition to the big screen. The plot, they separate after a big bust up then get back together to solve the BIG mystery, was a bit o' good writing. The best bit is in the airplane then the plane (watch for yourself. I don't want to spoil it!). But it did lack teh polish to make it great. If they had made Daphnie like she was on the show and not like Angelica of the Rugrats then she would have been lovable. The same with Fred. But still, it is a good romp. Just unplug yer brain fro an hour and a half and enjoy the fart jokes! Rooby Doo!!! "},{"Title":"Lillard was the only thing to save this pathetic movie!","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was so excited to seeing this movie, a real-life version of one of my fave cartoons from when I was a kid.  But, sadly I was horribly disappointed!  The acting was terrible, save one actor who actually saved the film, and the script was not much better than the acting.The only actor who seems to have researched the part and stay true to the cartoon was Matthew Lillard (Shaggy).   Linda Cardellini (Velma) was close, but Freddie Prinze Jr. (Fred) and Sarah Michelle Gellar (Daphne) were TERRIBLE!!  In the cartoon, Daphne was not a totally winy, baby nor was such a snob.  I think t hat Gellar forgot to act and was just herself.  As for Freddie Prinze Jr., I have never cared for him.  The ONLY thing that saved this film was Matthew Lillard, who was so true to the cartoon Shaggy that it is hard to tell them apart.Aside from the acting, the script was really pathetic!  With all of the Scooby Doo cartoon episodes, I would have thought they could have come up with a better script than the one that made it through!  I think that there should have been many, many more rewrites!  "},{"Title":"Zoinks! Hollywood actually went through with this idea","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby-Doo (2002) Matthew Lillard, Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Linda Cardellini, Rowan Atkinson, Isla Fisher, Miguel A. Nunez Jr., Steven Grives, D Raja Gosnell. Dopey live-action treatment of the William Hanna-Joseph Barbera cartoon, like any episode, has the dizzy gang of Mystery Inc. and their talking Great Dane cracking another mystery, this time on Spooky Island. Other than good production qualities and familiar-faced casting, humor is broad and only comes close to being funny during a flatulence joke, enough said, but discriminating kids will lap it up. Geared for 8 and unders, and the now-old fans of the cartoon. Followed by a sequel. Running Time 86 minutes and rated PG for some rude humor and language, and some scary action. **    "}{"Title":"MY EYES! MY EARS! GET IT AWAY!!","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  How did this movie get a 5?????????? This was the WORST movie I've ever seen in my life!! I enjoyed From Justin To Kelly more than I enjoyed this horrific excuse for a film.Sarah Michelle Gellar and Freddie Prinze Jr should NEVER be allowed to act again.. EVER! If what they did could even be considered ACTING at all. There is NO excuse for this movie!Bad bad bad bad bad bad!!!!Shame on all of you that LIKED it!!!Acting Bad Plot Bad Effects Bad Dialogue Bad Over-All Movie SHOOTS SELFBad bad bad! No!! TURN IT AWAY! Do NOT watch this movie! Anyone who has an any involvement with the making of this film should be beat over the head with the DVD, CD Soundtrack, and VHS copy. While we're at it.. beat them with the BETA version of this movie too.. but only because its heavier.I seen the commercial for the new one.. WHY GOD? WHHHHYYY?? bang bang bang.The End! -50 stars! "},{"Title":"A slow-motion train wreck","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I must admit I am strangely drawn to really bad movies.  Watching them is like watching a train wreck in slow motion.  With this one I have hit the mother load!  This is certainly among the most botched releases in Hollywood history.  The level of incompetence is staggering.  Somehow this mess it is still watchable, if only to grimace at the colossal waste of time and money. The fact that it earned money and spawned a sequel speaks of the monumental gullibility of the movie-viewing public and the sheer idiocy of Hollywood executives.  Note to the producers you cannot fool most people more than once with the same gag.  Your sequel will undoubtedly lose all the money you made on this dog (no pun intended.)So there is really no reason to write an actual review as this not an actual movie, but I will give it go anyway.First of all, I hated Scoob as a kid.  It was absolutely the most mind-numbing thing on TV (and that is really saying something!)  I didn't like The Brady Bunch either (another staple of the after-school TV diet designed to turn kids into mindless zombies, not unlike the kids in this movie), but I absolutely loved the movie (and the sequel!)  This movie follows the identical formula transplant the dated characters and plot lines into the present, add some tasteless sight gags and of course a few nods to the original that wink at viewers, while skewering the source material.  The last ingredient only works if the audience truly dislikes the original, which is why most true fans see this movie as spitting on the icon.  So if you hadn't read the opening paragraph, you might wager that I liked this movie.  Well, read on.Starting with the plot.  What plot?  I thought the original series was thin on story, but this movie takes it to another level.  The less said about it the better.  I don't know what the screenwriter got for this, but (quoting another Hanna-Barbera creation) he should have got life!As for acting, the portrayal of Shaggy is spot on!  The rest of the performances aren't worth discussion, except for that of Rowan Atkinson (of Black Adder and Mr. Bean fame.)  This guy is inherently hilarious, so he must have been directed to turn in the most leaden performance he could muster (that or he was sleep-walking.)Speaking of direction, what direction?  The same goes for editing.  The whole experience is disjointed and seems slapped together at the last minute.  The entire budget must have gone for CGI effects and set pieces. They aren't particularly well done, but they stick out due to the overall cheapness of the rest of the production.  Sock puppets in lieu of CGI monsters seem more appropriate here.Casting?  Oh brother.  Other than Shaggy (who as noted above is absolutely perfect), the casting is an unmitigated failure.  Of particular note, Linda Cardellini is far too adorable to be the dowdy and mannish Velma.  At one point in the movie, the Fred character (trying to comfort an insecure Velma) confides that he likes dorky girls like her too.  Give me a break!  In what sort of bizzaro world would this gorgeous babe feel awkward?The modern character updates are mindless filler and the fart jokes and other departures from good taste fall completely flat.  Not to mention that the pot reference early in the film is clearly inappropriate for the target audience (and don't tell me that kids didn't get that joke!)Even the publicists' work reeks of incompetence.  Who decided to use the utterly unfunny airplane scene as the teaser clip on talk shows?  When I saw that clip (knowing it represented what the producers considered a production highlight), I knew a disaster of biblical proportions was on its way (dogs and cats flying together!)As for good points, the opening ten minutes were great!  Some funny inside jokes, a few twists on the familiar frictions between the all-too-familiar characters had me laughing.  I think it is the precipitous drop-off in quality thereafter that makes this film so disappointing.  The set pieces are largely a waste, but there is one scene where the gang freezes like mannequins in a museum display that is slightly amusing (mainly because this is more in line with the familiar motivations of these characters.)  The voice (and speech impediment) of the title character is perfect, though it would have been more expedient to just recycle the old Rut roh and Rorry sound bites from the original.  The mutt doesn't really say much else.  On that note, I don't remember ever hearing the original Scooby bark, yet this incarnation woofs up a storm in the scene on the airplane.  Boy it is really hard to complete a paragraph about this movie without at least one negative comment.Only fans of really bad movies should bother to see this debacle. Everyone else should find something better to do with eighty-three precious minutes. Life is way to short and besides, the only way to send a message to Hollywood about garbage like this is to stay away!  Don't rent it, don't buy it and for the love of God, don't attend the sequel (as previously stated logic dictates, those who are not completely brain-dead will indeed stay away from the next episode in droves) as every ticket sold is a vote for yet another pointless production.  This summer movie season vote NO on Scooby! "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't see this in theaters or rent it cos i heard it was really bad. Then it came on HBO, and i loved it! It was alot better than i had heard. It was fun and easy to follow. Scooby Doo looked great! I really enjoyed it! I hope the 2nd one is as good as the 1st! Great movie. "},{"Title":"Not bad but not sequal worthy","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am a Buffy fan and that was my basic reason to watch this Kiddy now all of us now that Scooby Doo is heading for a sequal I didn't hate this move the storyline was preety good acting on part of Sarah, Linda and Matt but as for blonde Freddie... they were off the ball their I am not really a Scooby fan the movie was norrow but it did go somewhere (I think)RATED, Good (but arn't they all) "},{"Title":"not even nostalgia can save this one","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  the weirdest thing about this movie is that if you didn't necessarily like the cartoon, you won't like this movie, but if you did like the cartoon, you'll probably hate the movie.as a film, it's atrocious. the script is bad, the dialogue is terrible, the editing is muddled... the sound mix is particularly bad, with all the songs added AFTER the sequence was edited, leaving a sense of disconnection and disharmony.the cg is a real problem. several years ago this quality of cg would have been acceptable, but nowadays, with ANYTHING possible, simple cartoon animation and greenscreen shots shouldn't look so obviously fake. scooby's lighting effects were especially bad, he never looked like he was actually there, nor did the characters ever seem like they were interacting with him. (obviously there was no stand-in or reference point of any kind).fred, velma, and daphne are all written entirely out of character, and it isn't an improvement. the performances are uninspired as such, prinze is ridiculously miscast, cardellini is too monotonous and too pretty, and gellar isn't pretty enough(that's probably a little mean, but she just looks funny. put her next to a picture of the cartoon daphne and tell me who's hotter.). basically anyone looking for a relationship to the cartoon will cringe whenever these three open their mouths.the story is ridiculous even for a cartoon adaptation. it's not anything we want to see these characters plodding through, whether or not we're nostalgic for them. and the plot points that do exist (there are few) are so clumbsily strung together that the film has to stumble and trip its way to an uninteresting conclusion.the only bright spot is lillard's performance as shaggy, he pretty much nails the voice and body movements. but even die hard fans of the actor would be advised not to suffer through this piece of trash.overall bad mechanics, mostly bad acting, particularly awful script, lousy special effects.2 out of 10 because i laughed, like, twice. "},{"Title":"Waste Of Film","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When I sat down to watch Scooby-Doo I never expected that it would be so bad. There were so many things wrong with this movie (writing, directing, casting, acting) that it makes you wonder how this movie even came into existence. During the movie it was very obvious that the director was more interested in filling the film with half-naked women and idiotic dialogue then telling a good story.Casting real-life couple Freddie Prize Jr. and Sarah Michelle Gellar as two of the main characters (Fred & Daphne) has to be one of the dumbest casting decisions ever. Freddie Prinze once again comes off as annoying, while Sarah Michelle seems to be stuck in her role from &#145;Buffy The Vampire Slayer'. Both of these actors show no real presence or ability during the whole movie, which makes their characters seem more like cardboard cutouts. Linda Cardellini who plays Velma does a reasonable job to bring her character to life; despite the terrible writing she has to put up with. The best performance has to go to Matthew Lillard as Shaggy, everything he did during this movie was spot on. He was the perfect person to play character; he not only had the acting ability but also was able to sound like to cartoon character. Lillard was by far the ONLY saving quality that kept this movie from being a complete and total failure. But unfortunately the talents of Matthew Lillard were not enough to stop this movie from being a disappointment. The CGI character of Scooby-Doo I felt was way below average, it had the movements and expressions that were worse then the cartoon. The effects team could have at least made Scooby look believable, but instead he looked totally ridicules.One of the most outrageous things about this movie was how it completely ignored the cartoon. The cartoon was always innocent, but in this movie they decided spice it up. The fact that they dressed the women in this movie in the smallest outfits possible showed that the director was thinking less Scooby-Doo and more T&A. This is not what you would expect from a movie aimed at young kids. It seems that this movie was too dumb for adults and sexual for kids. The story was absolutely terrible and made no sense what so ever. While watching this it occured to me the writer had probably never watched Scooby-Doo, since the characters were almost opposite of what they were in the cartoon. I have a feeling that the writer was just making things up as he went along.When I was young I loved to watch the Scooby-Doo, but this movie destroys every good memory I had of it. I cannot see why they are allowing a sequel to be made. The first one was bad enough without going round 2 with this piece of garbage. I seriously doubt I could ever recommend this movie to anyone, except as an example of how something good could be made into something so unbelievably bad.1½ out of 5  "},{"Title":"Matthew Lillard is Shaggy","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Matthew Lillard's performance is brilliant, he is the star of this movie, his interpretation of Shaggy is extremely good. I also like Linda Cardellini as Velma, even though I do not feel that the movie characters really match the comic characters (except of Shaggy). It is a nice movie for kids age 8 and up.  "},{"Title":"Stick to Cartoon Network","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The worst problem this movie had was that it failed to remain faithful to the original idea and instead created practically brand new characters that just happened to have the same names as the ones that appeared in the cartoons. The casting was just as bad because the producers tried to capitalize on the fact that Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar and Matthew Lillard are all close friends in real life. They failed to realize that nobody cares so they ended up with Prinze, who can't act to save his life even in a children's movie, and a woefully miscast and misused Gellar. So much for her budding film career which she needs to depend on now that Buffy's over. The screenplay itself is not just insulting to Scooby fans but it's also insulting to the intelligence of any audience of any age (the lame surprise twist at the end proves it).Skip this and watch the much more amusing and entertaining episodes of Johnny Bravo and Harvey Birdman Attorney at Law that featured spoofy guest appearances by Scooby and the gang. The writers of those two Cartoon Network shows knew how to parody Scooby Doo all the while remaining faithful the original concept. They were fun to watch even if you weren't a Scooby fan. The creators of this film could have learned from them. "},{"Title":"Contrary to my expectations, it amused me.","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well... First time I heard about this movie all I heard was that it was a new movie (oh the surprise) featuring at least two actors I really enjoy seeing in movies, Rowan Atkinson and Sarah Michelle Gellar. Scooby Doo were never that big in Norway as it seems it was in every other western country (although a Hanna-Barbera cousin, The Flintstones, actually did have quite the following here). I have seen a few Scooby-Doo cartoons on cable and such, but I never found them amusing at all. In fact, whenever Scooby-Doo or The Jetsons did pop up in the telly, I promptly turned the telly off. So, to sum it up, what attraction this movie had for me was a few actors and nothing more.I guess this is why I was surprised in a positive way. Ok, so at first it seemed more than a little bit lame, but it got better. There were a few fart, snot and other jokes involving various parts of the anatomy and the functions of these aforementioned parts. I mean, I survived Scary Movie so this was no challenge for me ) The plot was at least coherent, the actors did a good job (Matthew Lillard deserves special mention, even though I disliked him in Hackers) and it amused me in its very own and rather youthful way.In short, I am going to watch this movie more times, and I am almost looking forward to the second movie.   "},{"Title":"A momentous achievement in the field of complete crap","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  That's all this film is, complete crap. And lots of it. I frankly can't believe the number of people who actually dare to say they laughed at it at bits. Oh, how I was begging throughout this two and half hours of utter torture for nothing more simple than a cream pie in the face, something that could, however slightly, tweak a smile out of me. But to no avail. It just kept trying harder and harder with worse and worse and more juvenile jokes. Absolute drivel all the way through. Performances are all worse than contemptible. I thought that the Flintstones film was a bad cartoon adaptation but this is just taking the p***. It's an absolute marvel that this film was allowed into cinemas and an even greater marvel that it actually made money...My advice - AVOID AT ALL, AND I MEAN ALL, COSTS. But then who am I to give advice, I actually PAID money to see this film and therefore am the stupidest, most dim-witted creature ever to live. "}{"Title":"DUMB! DUMB FILM!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well, there's now one person less in the world whom I will listen to about films. Someone told me this film was cute. I thought it was poorly done, stupidly written, abysmally acted and a total waste of good celluloid. I'd have preferred a cartoon to the Scooby in this film. Scooby says too many complete sentences unlike the Scooby we all know in the cartoons. I can't really think of anything that was done well in this film. Waste of time! "},{"Title":"The Scooby factor...","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A good film? No. A great film? Definitely not. An entertaining summer time film? Oh yeah.Of the four leads, tall, lanky Matthew Lillard, in the role of Shaggy, was by far the best. Hell, he even sounded like Shaggy as he was voiced on TV by Casey Kasem (for the most part, anyway). Linda Cardeillini is in 2nd place as Velma, the slightly cynical, bespectled intellectual plain jane. For the most part, Linda is very close to Velma as she was in the cartoon, and may even look more like the animated incarnation than Lillard as Shaggy, but there are a few un-Velma like moments thrown in for good measure. Fred and Daphne were very different though from the cartoon incarnations, probably re-tailored to suit real life luv item Freddie Prinze Jr. and Sarah Michelle Gellar. While it does provide more contrast between characters, it's a bit disheartening. That and I would have rather seen Laura Prepon (Donna from That 70s Show) as Daphne than Sarah Michelle Gellar; I just think Laura Prepon is closer to Daphne appearance wise. But that's beside the point.The plot concerns the unthinkable our favorite foursome splitting up after a clash of egoes, only to reunite 2 years later to solve a mystery at a theme park. Because of the gang's breaking up, this feels less like a first entry and more like a sequel, but it's an amusing farce just the same.The DVD has all some great deleted scenes, like the original animated opening which showed the gang in their classic cartoon format with a reggae version of the Scooby theme playing over them (and showing Daphne being kidnapped and taken off to the toy factory); flashbacks of Fred on the eletric track with his book, Velma in a self-help group dealing with feelings of low self-esteem, and Daphne's karate training; and my personal favorite, a drunken Velma getting up on the piano and singing You're just too good to be true... can't take my eyes off of you.... The commentary on these deleted scenes are pretty much the same; the director felt he had to cut these wonderful scenes because he felt they slowed the film down too much, but the movie's running time is only like 1 hour 26 minutes, so really it probably could have stood to be longer.  "},{"Title":"Star rating 2 out of 5","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby-Doo is mercifully short - at only 83 minutes - which is probably the best thing that can be said about it.  Whatever the director and producers were trying to achieve by bringing Hanna-Barbera's classic cartoon to life, it's fairly safe to say they failed.  Despite excellent character interpretations by Matthew Lillard and Linda Cardellini as Shaggy and Velma, the fleshing out of the Mystery Inc. team is disappointingly shallow.  As is the irritating mission of self-discovery and angst each character goes through before discovering that (surprise, surprise) teamwork is best.The film could be forgiven many of its foibles if only it was rib-ticklingly hilarious.  Unfortunately it suffers from trying to cater both to a young audience, and also to adults who fondly remember the cartoon from their childhood days.  Rowan Atkinson is cringingly unfunny as the strange proprietor of Spooky Island amusement park, and surely even kids are by now impervious to fart and snot jokes.  However, the sequence inside the spooky abandoned castle raises a few hearty chuckles.The trademark unlikeliness of the situations Mystery Inc. got themselves into in the cartoon doesn't transfer well into realism.  The plot, which has a number of large holes, concerns the mysterious change in behaviour of college students who are holidaying at the resort of Spooky Island.  And, it has to be admitted, that thanks to some great sets and the wonders of CGI, the resort looks like a pretty cool place to spend a vacation.  The construction of the theme park has awakened some ancient (and quite scary, considering the PG-rating) monsters, so it's up to the team to unmask the villain and save the world.  But the best way of saving yourself is to avoid watching this movie.  "},{"Title":"Flawed but fun!","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"            Stephen Pearces review of Scooby Doo Scooby Doo  is one of the greatest cartoon shows of all time but after  The Flintstones  and it`s sequel  The Flinstones in viva Rock Vagas were both flops the pressure to turn possibly Hanna-Barberas most famous cartoon creation was high.....could they do it?-the answer was yes and no.The problems with the film almost outweigh its plus points.Raja Gosnell,who began his career as editor on the first two  HOME ALONE  movies before moving on to films such as NEVER BEEN KISSED with Drew Barrymore and  BIG MOMMAS HOUSE  with Martin Lawrence handles the directing duties with the all the power and grace of someone handling a sledgehammer while James Gunns script and the special effects sadly leave a lot to be desired( the sfx Scooby Doo is sometimes out of sync with the rest of the film) but worst of all is some of the acting is almost non-existant( Freddie Prinze Jnr being the main villian ) but,as i have said, there are some good points.Matthew Liliards Shaggy is absolutely spot-on while RowanBean Atkinson hams it up with relish and gusto as the villian but Sarah Michelle Gellar steals everyones thunder by making Daphine Blake a tough and sassy character.So to sum up  Scooby Doo  is not the greatest film but it is a huge ammount of fun and at least it beats watching  The Flintstones  any day.Stephens rating - $$$ out of $$$$$ "},{"Title":"The inside scoop from inside &#145;the scoob'","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  While I was watching Scooby Doo I could not help but think of another, very similar film I had seen a few years ago called Spy Kids. Now the only two reasons for remembering that one were that 1) it sucked and 2) it was directed by one of my favorite directors, called Robert Rodriguez. Where Spy Kids failed though, I saw Scooby Doo succeed. Not only was the film funny, due mostly to the effort the computer animated Scoobster and his voice (Mr. Neil Fanning), but it also made you feel happy. I thought the film was very charming and I was really relieved that there were no stupid or awkward scenes in the film (as I'd feared). This is mostly due (in my opinion) to the actors, who were very well cast and fitted their roles like a fresh set of gloves (by the way I never seem to get tired of seeing Sarah Michelle Gellar playing a spoiled girl, or is it that I can't get tired of seeing her PERIOD?). I must admit that I needed a bit of time to get accustomed to the &#145;groove' of the film, but that does not mean I did not enjoy the whole product. And of course not everything was good in this film! I personally felt that Fred (die Prinze Jr.) was way too gay in the beginning and I thought that maybe due to Shaggy's way of behavior the film would have been better if placed in the 70's. But that is truly personal. Fans of the TV series for instance, might agree on these two points but come and introduce a whole list filled with criticism that could reach from the U.S.A. to Nippon whereas others would say &#145;Scooby sucked' and yet others would say &#145;Scooby rocked'. Despite all that, it is my opinion that younger children will enjoy this film and I even think that if you are 22 (like I am), you have an open mind and just want to be entertained (without any desire to think), you just might like this film. I won't watch Scooby Doo 2 in the cinema because although this film was fun, it wasn't that much fun. I'll wait for the rental instead.7 out of 10p.s. as far as the `What's up with the cleavage?' remarks go, have any of you walked on the street lately and looked around? It's hard to see any girl who is as buttoned up as Velma and Daphne these days. "},{"Title":"Dissapointing","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was so corny, There's no scooby snacks and nosolving mysteries in the mystery Machine. It makes me long for thenostalgic tv series. I didn't like the ending. But I guess it'sentertaining to see how desperate and cheesy it was, and some ofthe things that happen are pretty hilarious,such as the sadistic talkon SCOOBY DOO Doobee doo! Worse yet the gang totally dumpson each other for two years, and the movie set on an island. I gottaadmit some of the monsters are pretty real, and creepy looking,and there were good special effects, and more intense than theoddball but classic tv series. "},{"Title":"What do you expect...","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  OK, first of all, I have to say that this was one of the most stupid movies I have seen...  Yet, I really enjoyed it anyways!! I mean, look - the cartoon itself is INCREDABLY STUPID (every episode the monster/ ghost = ALWAYS an old, cranky geezer... Shouldn't Mystery Inc. start to see a pattern?  Hello!) Although stupid, yes, the cartoon is still funny and enjoyable. The movie lives right up  to that. Its a bad, horribly bad, horribly stupid auful movie, but what do you expect? The  cartoon was the same thing, and no one complained about that! I say congrats to the  film makers for making it so faithful to the original cartoon!I rate the movie 1/10... and now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to watch it again for the  100th time! "},{"Title":"scaried off by reviews but took two scoobie snacks ....","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was scared off by the reviews and so I did not go see this at the theater but this movie was pretty good.  The movie honors the cartoon cliches but also pokes a little humor at the same time.My favorite line is when Shaggy and Scooby are having a fight. Shaggy yells out that Scooby drinks from the toiler.  Scooby points out so do you!If you like this movie try Scooby Do on Zombie Island which also pokes fun at the classic cartoon.      "},{"Title":"I tried...it failed.  Miserably.","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Before we get started, I want to get one thing out of the way.  I'm in my mid-20's, and grew up watching the cartoons.  I loved the cartoons.But I hated the movie...I really wanted to like the movie.  I thought it sounded like a good idea at first.  Then I saw the previews.  Skipped it at the theater, dollar theater and video store.  I finally caught it on HBO the other night.Yikes.The only case Mystery Inc. should be investigating is how this movie got so uncontrollably bad.  I couldn't even stand to watch the whole movie.  "},{"Title":"A boring and silly attempt at a kids' entertainment.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****There are probably people out there who will appreciate Scooby-Doo's charms more than I will. Namely, this would apply to kids. I have a hard time seeing a middle-aged adult who, regardless of whether or not he was a fan of the old cartoon series, actually enjoying this picture. This live-action rendition of Scooby-Doo manages to be even sillier than the show it's based off of, and somehow, it's even more boring.Mystery, Inc. consists of a group of teens who go around solving, well, mysteries, usually involving ghouls and monsters, though the truth usually reveals itself as a human in disguise. There's arrogant Fred (Freddie Prinze, Jr., who's actually perfectly suited for this role), nerdy Velma (Linda Cardellini), vacantly pretty Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar), bumbling goof Shaggy (Matthew Lillard), and of course, Scooby-Doo himself, appearing courtesy of the latest and most high-tech in special effects.After a two-year separation, the team comes back together to solve strange things going on on an amusement park island. The kids who arrive at the park come out like brain-washed zombies and the owner wants to know who or what is behind this. And extremely ludicrous stuff happens from there on out.Yes, I realize I'm not supposed to take this movie seriously, but it fails at the most basic level of entertainment. The jokes aren't funny (in fact, a few of them are cringe-inducing), the acting's mostly pathetic, and the proceedings simply lack a good sense of fun. Sure, there are a lot of slapstick action sequences, fights with monsters, booby traps, and secret doorways, but it's all brought down by Raja Gosnell's lackluster direction and the cast's inability to appear or sound like anything more than a bunch of actors desperately trying not to be upstaged by a CGI-dog.And when you get right down to it, that's the only reason this movie exists; to showcase a silly Great Dane with cartoonish CGI. On that level, I suppose there's some satisfaction to be had. Scooby-Doo himself is a fairly impressive special effect. The obviousness of it is definitely intentional, and the dog himself, while never actually provoking any genuine laughs, has a few amusing moments. The same cannot be said for the actors. Freddie Prinze, Jr. is easily the worst of this cast, taking what should be a relatively simple role and still managing to seem rather flat. Linda Cardellini is probably too busty and nubile for the role of Velma, but I guess she's okay to the extent playing such a character can afford. Sarah Michelle Gellar can be a decent actress, and while she plays this vapid role to a tee, this doesn't change the fact she's incredibly annoying. Matthew Lillard is also hard to watch, particularly in a fart contest that will probably have the kids rolling in laughter. He does, however, make a pretty fair imitation of Kasey Kasem's voice.Scooby-Doo, the movie, has one fittingly enjoyable segment, involving protoplasm and body-switching, of all things. For about five minutes, I actually found myself perking up from dullsville and even chuckling a few times. But once that segment ended, the film went straight back to the garbage bin, particularly with a twist ending that's indescribably silly, even for a live-action cartoon. This is another strike for director Gosnell, the only other movie of his I've seen being Big Momma's house. But does it even matter who directs a movie like this? So long as the CGI dog is around, the kids'll rush in droves, and this will soon be a franchise that will milk all its money's worth before disappearing in cinematic oblivion. But that won't be for another five years.  "}{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie could have, and should have been MUCH better!!!! Casting was fair at best, Freddie prince Jr. is a real bad call for Fred.  Matthew Lizard's (as Shaggy) performance, however, was the main reason I semi-liked this movie.  Lizard, in my opinion, is one of the most under-rated actors of our time.  Check out his unbelievable performance in SLC PUNK!, Summer Catch, and of course his fabulous roll in SCREAM. "},{"Title":"Now I can die in peace","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Sure, you're curious.  You've had your fill of entertaining and well-done films.  You want to walk on the wild side.  You want to sit through the cinematic equivalent of being fed through the Arby's meat slicer.  And so you do.  And you realize that 86 minutes could be better spent extinguishing lit cigarettes on your forearm.  There is no moment in this film that hasn't been done better by even the least of sitcoms.  Run away.  Far, far away. "},{"Title":"Some good effects but that's all","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This doesn't seem like a kids film. The girls are very scantily clad and so were very distracting. The special effects were very good considering they were wrapped in a B-movie.Matthew Lillard gives an exceptional, convincing and very entertaining performance along with his virtual buddy Scooby-Doo. Unfortunately there is more film than these two main characters can carry. I.e. Scooby and Reggie (that's how Scooby pronounces Shaggy) don't have enough on-camera time to make this film really fun and entertaining. They are both endearing and fun to watch. Rwowa-bunga! hehehe )Rowan Atkinson doesn't belong in this film. He is monumentally talented and utterly out of place.The plot is very good, and the ending is very clever (albeit a 90 lb. girl punching out a 250 lb. muscle man). 6/10- ZafoidPS The tunes were very catchy.- Z "},{"Title":"We'll be seeing Dustin Hoffman in Inch High Private Eye The Movie next. HELP!","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was never a fan of Scooby-Doo in any of his many incarnations, from Scooby-Doo, Where Are You? in 1969 to his various made for video outings. But even allowing for that, his long-awaited (by who?) feature debut is a dog in more ways than one; thankfully William Hanna wasn't around to see Scooby-Doo (although he's still credited as one of the executive producers) - when the first line of dialogue is a reference to a wedgie, you know something's wrong.The plot is straight out of a reunion TV movie - the Mystery Inc. gang has broken up with their various character flaws rubbing against each other (Fred is a credit-hog, Velma a know-it-all, Daphne a perennial victim - You come with your own ransom note - and Shaggy is, well, Shaggy), until they're brought back together on a resort island at the behest of Rowan Atkinson to solve the mystery of holidaymakers arriving full of life and leaving virtual zombies. Leaving aside the fact that the whole finding they're fighting real supernatural demons thing was handled in the video/cable Scooby-Doo On Zombie Island, the cast also has to battle James Gunn's script. Fred and Velma did indeed go on to become a writer and a NASA scientist on the TV show(s), but for everything it gets right there are about 20 misplaced ones, not least Daphne - Sarah Michelle Gellar plays her as if she's doing a parody of Buffy by someone who's never seen the show (which, in fairness, is how it was written). Linda Cardellini is better as Velma, but going from Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Freaks and Geeks to this is a major step down, with only Matthew Lillard hitting the mark as Shaggy. But with hopeless humour, haphazard writing and a large dose of grossness... the fact that Pamela Anderson doesn't appear on the credits says more about this movie than any review possibly could.The identity of the villain, however, almost makes it worth sitting through. But only almost. "},{"Title":"Zoinks!  Pretty good actually","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I'm amazed and disappointed by all the negative reviews this film is getting.  What's the deal?  Sure it could have been better, but I think they did a pretty good job.  Is it true to the show?  Yes, a very accurate representation.  Matthew Lillard gives an Oscar worthy performance as Shaggy (he really nails the voice), and the rest of the gang is similarly well cast.  Is it funny?  Yeah, most of the time.  It's certainly more amusing than the show.  Some bits fall flat, but they are generally successful. The flatulence competition is a bit much, but it sets up a really funny gag in the next scene.The only legitimate complaint is that the film breaks the show's rule that the monsters are always fake.  The other-worldly nature of the villain's plot is a bit disconcerting, but it doesn't really detract from the movie's enjoyment.If you are a fan of the show, or even just a casual viewer, you should get a kick out of this.  I eagerly look forward to the sequel.  Scooby Snacks anyone? "},{"Title":"Please, no sequel","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie would be fun, but it's one of the worst films I've ever seen. Bad plot, bad acting, bad editing, bad animations.Please don't continue with the sequel it's bad enough with one movie about Mystery INC.I do not recommend this movie, not for adults anyway. I give it a rating of 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bad, just plain bad!","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo is a real bore, I couldn't believe that someone actually made this movie. The idea of Scooby Doo is cool, but the plot of this movie was pathetic. I couldn't believe what was before my eyes. The whole thing about friendship was laughable and was meant to be a good moral for kids, but came across as some forcible message that was put in the movie so the movie actually had a message. The whole thing with the island and the tourists was so stupid. Scooby Doo is stupid.Please don't make another one! 2 out of 10  "},{"Title":"They didn't get away with it","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  As transfers of cartoon series to movies go, this isn't bad. But that's not to say that it's any good, either. For a comedy adventure lasting less than 90 minutes to drag like this requires direction of ferocious mediocrity. Raja Gosnell has that in spades.Admittedly, the director does have to work with the charisma void that is Freddie Prinze Jr and Sarah Michelle Gellar whose range is about as wide as her arse. Plus points go to Matthew Lillard for, like, his spot-on Shaggy and cutie Cardellini as Velma. The CG Scooby works in a doesn't-do-much kinda way, and the movie has a suitably cartoonish look and throws in a couple of nice nods to the original show, but it all seems to have been put together without any real feeling.Saying that this is better than The Flintstones is like comparing Britney to Christina Aguilera. It's all forgettable pish. "},{"Title":"Scooby Doo? Scooby Don't...","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don't even know where to begin with this one. No wonder it took so much post production to get it on the screen. I thought the CGI Scooby Doo was well done and the actors tried their best to make you believe they were those 'meddling kids', but what a crappy story. Even the cartoon, which was formulaic and predictable, was way better than this crap. Those full length animated films they made like 'Scooby Doo On Zombie Island' and such, were a lot better, and perhaps they should have employed those writers for the big screen. If you're going to tackle an American icon, Hollywood, do it well or leave it alone. "},{"Title":"Why did they cut out all the best bits?","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I just watched the DVD version of the Scooby Doo movie, and after watching the deleted scenes, this is the question I was left asking.Why were all the best, funniest parts cut out of the film? They should have cut out more of the impossibly stupid plot and stuck this stuff back in. I mean, really--Velma singing You're Just Too Good to be True while writhing on top of a piano like Michelle Pfieffer in The Baker Boys? CLASSIC!  They should have re-edited the movie for DVD, providing a PG-13 version that obviously exists in the completed footage. "}{"Title":"better than animated one...","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well I don't like much original Scooby Doo. Poor animation, predictable ends, weird sounds, boring music. Yes, I know, it's just the classic, but... Movie removes all these negatives I think... 1. it's funny, I'm not saying original series wasn't funny, but this is the kind of humour i like. 2. actors are good, it's not the performance like in the oscar winning movies, but very good, and if you compare characters to original, you must agree they all are played very well 3. music sound and visuals... Music is great - you may disagree it's not suitable for this kind of movie, but i think it makes the film more dynamic, and that's good. Visuals looks cheap nowdays but still great for this kind of movie. 4. the story... everyone expect masked gardener in the end and... you need to see ) Anyway, I'm sure it's very good comedy, for anyone under 25, no violence, no blood, no sex... Still funny "},{"Title":"OK as light entertainment","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know.  Maybe the best way to enjoy SCOOBY DOO is NOT to have had much experience with the original cartoon.  I never cared much for the cartoon -- I was always more of a Bugs Bunny/Roadrunner man.  As a father of a small child,  I've had the chance to see it a LOT more lately; I still can't really get into it and I think the cartoon's animation style is positively primitive and cheap-looking.  Popeye short features  from the 1930's were far, far better examples of the art of animation, and still outshine many modern efforts.  But to each his own, and I guess that includes a lot of people, because some thirty years after it started, SCOOBY DOO is still a mainstay of the cartoon world and the stores are full of Scooby Doo stuff. I thought SCOOBY DOO the movie was fine as a piece of light entertainment.  The actors chosen to play the members of Mystery, Inc.  were good, and Matthew Lillard (Shaggy) and Linda Cardellini (Velma) were especially good.  Rowan Atkinson was really wasted as Emile Mondavarious;  that's not to criticize him -- it's just that the character  was not developed, and it didn't seem to be a Rowan Atkinson role.  He did as well as possible, considering the limitations of the role.  SCOOBY DOO contains some things that younger and more sensitive viewers might find upsetting or offensive  scary monsters, the notorious farting contest, sexual innuendo, and some thinly-veiled comments from Shaggy that confirm the long-held suspicion that he is a pot-head.  But if you can get past these, and if you have no emotional investment in or great expectations about what this movie is going to be, then you might have a half-way decent time with it.  Heck, I might even start watching the cartoons with my kid!Oh, by the way -- I'll agree with a lot of the other posters here -- Linda Cardellini is a DOLL! "},{"Title":"silly fun, but unfortunately overboard","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie nearly succeeded in all that we could ask from Scooby Doo  harmless silly fun.  Unfortunately, there are a couple scenes that just go waay overboard with the gross-out jokes; is there no end to how far Hollywood will go with this stuff?  Apparently not.  Too bad.  I wouldn't recommend any parent take their child less than 12 to this movie.  "},{"Title":"This was better off without Scrappy Doo","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I'm a big fan of Scooby Doo and I'm glad they made the movie based on that cartoon. The old cartoons are a howl to me except when Hanna-Barbera added Scrappy-Doo into the fray. WHAT A JOKE! The first mistake was getting rid of Fred and the girls. All of them had their weakness Freddy; having such a big ego, Daphne; prissy and accident-prone, Velma; always vulnerable without her glasses, Shaggy and Scooby; GHOSTS and FOOD!!!!! But is one of the good weakness of those cowardly two some. When they got rid of the important three, I didn't like the show too much even when they brought back Daphne it was still weak. When I saw the episode when all of them return to help out the team, the magic had faded thanks to Scrappy Doo. When they had A Pup Named Scooby-Doo it was a little better after they did The Flintstone Kids. The pride of Scooby Doo was back in the time of the gangs' younger days. When I read that Warner Bros. was doing the live version of Scooby Doo, I was thrilled and could hardly wait. The choice of casts members for the movie was far out as Shaggy would say. The choice for Velma was great Linda Cardellini, The Price is Right contestant in'97 , she was awesome. Matt Lillard does well as Norville Shaggy Rogers. Freddie Prinze,Jr. and Sarah Michelle Gellar rounding the top cast as Fred and Daphne was fine. And Scooby Doo being animated was a riot. So when I saw the movie for the first time, I just thought it was the corniest thing I ever saw. When they finally regrouped after their differences, I knew there has to be a catch. Since Scrappy Doo ruined the genere, the movie will be considered his punishment. I think two more with be helpful and the last one should best be a little more surprising. I don't care what critics say about this movie, I LIKED IT! SCOOBY DOOBY DOOOOOOOO!!!! "},{"Title":"Priduction quality?  Bah!","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  well, this film does away with old standbys like avoiding the boom mic in the shot and continuity, I mean, who notices things like Sarah Michelle Gellar's cleavage coming and going with costume changes?  Speaking of Sarah Michelle Gellar, I thought her portrayal of Daphne was ho hum, same for freddie prinze Jr.  Not bad, just ho hum.  Matthew Lillard on the other hand played an ENTIRELY convincing shaggy, I don't think it could have been done better.  Linda Cardellini as Velma not only pulled off the character of Velma flawlessly, but she really made the character attractive in that betty vs wilma / maryanne vs ginger way.This film did a really good job of capturing the spirit of the cartoons, it felt a lot like watching a live action version.  It was fun enough that the continuity and filming errors were easy to ignore.   I have to entirely DISAGREE with other reviews that this movie is good for kids, there's more than a few sublime references to pot smoking.  Hrm, perhaps that helps to describe the intended audience. "},{"Title":"It's practically a spoof, from a cartoon that deserved to be spoofed.","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Let's face it Scooby-Doo wasn't the highlight of the history of animation. It wasn't ground breaking, or really intelligent, it just got a big cult following. It was a kids cartoon, entertaining to some, stupid to others, and this is a kids movie, entertaining to some, stupid to others, not Shakespeare.Lots of theories as to the personalities of the characters have risen over the years. The only one touched on is that Shaggy is a pothead, which there are sly, funny, jokes that make fun of this (don't worry they'll go over the kids heads). Other theories like that Fred was gay and that Daphne and Velma were lesbians, weren't touched on, which is understandable, because religious groups would have never stopped whining if they touched that. So they tweaked Fred and Daphne so they would be less boring and more entertaining. Fred is now an arrogant goof, and Daphne (which I must say Mrs. Geller looked HOT as a redhead) who was somewhat ditzy in the cartoon is now more of a bimbo.Velma was played extremely well by Linda Cartellini, but Matthew Lillard steals the movie. If there was an Oscar catergory for Best Portrayal of a Cartoon Character, he should win it for his performance of Shaggy. It was flawless.Scooby wasn't a perfect special effect, he didn't really blend in well with the background, but he was very well animated and cartoonish. Other highlights of the film were the mockery of Scrappy-Doo and Wire-Fu fighting, and the overall cartoonish feel the movie oozed.I also think that it's nice that this flick had some belch and fart humor. It takes me back to the when I was a kid and watching cartoons like Ren & Stimpy.To sum it up, Scooby-Doo isn't an Oscar contender, it's not the Citizen Kane of 2002, it's just a fun KIDS FILM that is sure to delight the younger audience, and an older crowd with a sense of humor.One Final Note It's very pathetic seeing people on this site complaining about how this film's female characters wear clothes that show clevage, it may not be consistant with the cartoon, but their cartoon clothes really arn't consistant with this decade. Besides, all of you people bickering, obsessing and carrying on about boobs, you sound like a bunch of kids. "},{"Title":"Things you misunderstood","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I shouldn't do this. I shouldn't get annoyed at people I don't know on the internet who miss the point of every single thing. But -- people are writing here to say that this movie did not stay true to the cartoon in every way Well, obviously! I sure wouldn't have paid to see the same Scooby Doo cartoon they've been playing since the 60s again, in live action form. This movie takes the formulas and the cliches of the original, and flips them around. It alludes to all the things people whispered about the show (Shaggy Mary-jane? That's, like, my favorite name! and Velma Oh, Daphne... she was so beautiful. The coolest girl at Coolsville High.) So, it brought that stuff into the open, and exaggerated Fred's good looks into egomania, Daphne's girlyness to, well, even more goofy vapidity, and Velma's intelligence into, um, really geeky intelligence. At the same time, it kept some stuff about the cartoon, which was just so darn funny to see done by real actors (Scooby snacks... I know they're for dogs, but I love them! and all the silly chase scene stuff, along with many of the other bits of the formula that made sure Scooby Doo was still Scooby Doo. I admit, most of the reason I liked it was for nostalgia. I'm 18, and I loved scooby do from about age 6-11. But this movie was done well, and people keep looking for the wrong stuff in it. I guess I am in one of the target audiences (the two main ones are probably 4-8 and 16-22), but I did enjoy it. Oh, and yeah, Matthew Lillard was incredible as Shaggy. That's the one thing people did get right in these reviews. I'll give this movie a 7, cuz it's worth watching, if you know what to expect. "},{"Title":"I don't know what is worse, the TV show or the movie?","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I know hollywood has a tendency to make movies out of great TV shows, but making a movie from a bad TV show is another story.Scooby Doo has to be the worst cartoon ever made. Poor animation, very lame gags, and the same plot (to catch the mystery man who is scaring people just to steal a treasure or a fortune) episode after episode. I don't know what people think is so appealing about Scooby Doo since he's just as annoying as Jar Jar Binks. This movie also fails to entertain.To me the success of Scooby Doo is the biggest mystery of all. "},{"Title":"Scooby-Don't","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was a big fan of the original cartoon series, so I was sceptical when they announced they were shooting a live action version. My fears, sadly, were justified.With the notable exception of Matthew Lillard (Shaggy), all the cast are just woefully wrong for the roles they play. Fred (Freddie Prinze Jr) is hopelessly inept, a far cry from the serious cartoon character. Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar) is nothing like the cartoon Daph I recall. Velma (Linda Cardellini) was not too bad, but all of them (except Lillard) struggled to emulate the original characters.Even the CGI Scooby is rather lame, and looked more like a cartoon than the original cartoon version did.There are some funny scenes. The farting in armour scene had me in hysterics, for instance. And the scene where they reminisce about ditching Scrappy-Doo, years before, really paid homage to the fans hatred of that particular character in the cartoon show. I kept expecting to see Scooby-Dumb (remember him?) show up, but thankfully they didn't go that far. Finally, the soul-swapping scene could have been managed better, and was just there for a quick laugh.But Shaggy (Lillard) was just so perfect that it made me cringe to see the rest of the cast, although the scenes with him and Scooby do work pretty well.If you're a fan of the cartoon show, watch it for Shaggy and Scooby, and try not to watch the fill-in bits with the rest of the cast. "},{"Title":"Lazy film making at it best","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film was quite simply just lazy..the direction was poor..the CGI was rushed and just didn't fit...Shaggy was the only cast member to at least try and produce the original cartoon personna..the rest just turned up got paid HUGE sums of cash and buggered off without even bothering to act.  Isla Fisher looked cute..thank god for small mercies. "}{"Title":"How about renaming it Booby-Doo?","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Harkening back to my child/teenhood, I cannot recall a single episode of the Scooby-Doo cartoon series in which I noticed Daphne's (or Velma's, or the other character's) breasts. In this movie version it's very difficult NOT to notice them, as the filmmakers seem intent on showing cleavage any chance they get. In another film or storyline this may be appropriate, but for the Mystery gang? No way!Sarah Michelle Gellar's portrayal of Daphne seems to focus more on pouting, whining, and the correctly applied shade of lip gloss rather than the mystery at hand. And Freddie Prinze Jr. as Fred? I think one of Austin Powers's Fembots would have delivered a more natural performance.** SEE THIS MOVIE ** if only to catch Matthew Lillard's terrific performance as Shaggy. He perfectly captured the cartoon character in movement and especially voice. Linda Cardellini as Velma is no slouch, either -- she puts on a good show as the somewhat shy, brainy and cynical Mystery gang member. Rowan Atkinson as the evil Emile adds a much-needed boost to the iffy casting (although his screen time was too brief for my liking).If you can get past the awkwardness of not quite a cartoon, not quite a live action movie you may enjoy this flick! I've watched it a few times with my 6 1/2 year old, who loves it (especially the scenes with Shaggy). I'm giving it a 3/10 due to some poor casting choices and the not-so Mystery cleavage. "},{"Title":" You'll always be my best friend, Scoob","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Freddie Prinze, Jr. is outspoken as Fredrick in this coy adventure flick. The following cast is independent. The costumes are sexy. One of the fair farces in the genre, Scooby-Doo allows empty adventures. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Discredit to the original","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  One of the great things about the original series is that the monster/alien/ghost/whatever was NEVER real.  It was always some guy playing an elaborate prank.  This got lost in the movie, sadly.  Scrappy Doo as a villain?  Hey, Scrappy sucked.  If anyone should have been a villain, it was him.  I loved this shot at his character.  However, SMG and FPJr. were nothing like the original characters.  Shaggy, Scooby, and Velma were all true to the original series.  You can really see Lillard trying his ass off to make it right.  Sadly, it doesn't ultimately work out.  Too many of the rules of the series have been broken to make it a good rendition of Scooby Doo.  SMG, FPJr., and the addition of real supernatural activity makes this a bad remake of a pretty good cartoon series.  Sadly, the target audience doesn't care or doesn't notice these problems.  Whatever.  This movie and its sequels can make millions 'til the cows come home.  It doesn't change the fact that they suck, and everyone who matters believes the same way. "},{"Title":"they changed it too much, but may be worth a look","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I agree, I liked Velma, and Shaggy, but the Buffy-like MSG was all wrong for the part - and wasn't Daphne taller, too, in the original?! Also Fred was a bad choice. I can see bringing it up to date, to attract a new generation of viewers, but downright changing, or re-writing the characters - Scrappy as the villain, c'mon! and the PC-version of Daphne - just kind of ruined it for those who grew up on the original - I loved the cartoon then, still love it today, and I'm not afraid to admit it!The movie was entertaining, but a let down for those who remember the original. The Mystery gang breaking up was in bad taste, too, I'd say that's just my opinion, but I know it's not! I hope the next one is better... "},{"Title":"Velma, Velma, Velma!","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  For god sake why do Hollywood continue to make awful movies like that. They will never understand that we do not care about stupid characters telling stupid jokes for an hour and a half. Seriously, Freddie Prince Jr. is the nadir of mediocrity for an actor and even her ugly girlfriend, miss Buffy, who should have breast implant right now by the way is simply not attractive. The only scene that was cool with her is the one where she is doing kung-fu. If you look carefully, we can see her legs very well. But who cares she is ugly. The good points of this is none other than my new favorite actress in Hollywood, she looks like a porn star in real life and in this film she looks bad. She was not so bad with her tight dress by the end of the film, I was looking at her breast the entire movie, she is so great, why on earth did she choose a poor script like this. Linda Cardellini, thanks for being so hot! Here is the story thanks to Doug Funnie.The Mystery Inc. gang have gone their separate ways and have been apart for two years, until they each receive an invitation to Spooky Island. Not knowing that the others have also been invited, they show up and discover an amusement park that affects young visitors in very strange ways. Fred, Daphne, Velma, Shaggy and Scooby soon realize that they cannot solve this mystery without help from each other. Just watch Velma, she is the only one who got nice big breasts. "},{"Title":"Truly Dreadful","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is truly one of the worst scripted, acted and directed piles of absolute rubbish ever to assault cinema screens. It is riddled with crass and howlingly un-funny jokes and farting contests, pointlessly short-skirted female characters and the most uncharismatic heroes you could ever hope to see. Throughout the film, the actors never seem to decide whether or not they are taking the ridiculous plot and awful scripting seriously, and the result is terrible. If it happened to be done in a very tongue-in-cheek kind of way, this film could almost have tweaked a smile from me, but in the way it is portrayed it is uncomfortable for the audience as it seems for the actors. I consider it a personal affront that such a great and classic children's cartoon series has been reduced to such idiotic dialogue. Even the great Rowan Atkinson could neither save this movie nor make his own lines remotely amusing. "},{"Title":"This is a spoiler review...","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is now the movie against which I judge how idiotic all other movies are.  There were so many things wrong with it * Daphne in the cartoon never struck me as a brainless brat; and she was a redhead, not a blonde. * Fred in the cartoon didn't seem 100% stuck on himself. * Scooby the cartoon was better, graphically, than the computer generated Scooby of the movie.  There was a better Scooby Doo in Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back. * Insufficient pot jokes - insufficient references to the fact that human Shaggy ate dog biscuits. * Velma's ridiculous titty-shirt when Daphne was off-screen, because the producers realized nobody was watching it for the script/plot/&c. * Not enough adult humour - I know it's a kiddie cartoon movie, but face it the people who watched the cartoon are all 20 - 30 somethings by now and can deal with Fred and Daphne having sex jokes and Shaggy being a pothead jokes. * Not enough to explain why Scrappy was the bad guy, unless you are an adult and suffered through his annoying cartoon self. * Total waste of Rowan Atkinson.  He should be ashamed of himself for being in this scatalogical nightmare. I have seen many, many bad movies, but this stands out.  It's so bad, it's unwatchable.  It will not be amusing a few years from now, it's not campy and cute, IT'S CRAP.  "},{"Title":"Crapy Doo","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have no words to express how bad this movie was. For some reason I rented it last night and I am embarrassed. After watching it, I put the making of in the special features to see what the director had to say. He failed in everything he wanted to do. He said that Scooby should look like a real dog and the animation is horrible, I would recommend the director to watch Shrek or Monsters inc. to see how you animate animal looking characters.Second he said he wanted to stay true to the cartoon, and the movie is light years away from it. My final thought is I understand that if you make a movie about a famous cartoon it's going to make money no matter how bad it is. But for once, studios, directors and producers should think more about what they are doing and not about the money they are going to make. "},{"Title":"OwyWowyWoooo!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The plot...  Mostly what you'd expect, except it isn't. The characters... Mostly what you'd expect, except they aren't.It seems that those that made this movie were left alone as six year olds, and the only choice they had was Scooby Doo.  So now we all should suffer for their angst.This is not a good movie, it's a pathetic movie.  What's even worse... Scooby-Doo 2 is already in production.  Ah, the egotistical children of unwed dogs. "},{"Title":"Simply terrible","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I actually wish I could give a film a rating in negative numbers, because that's what this one really deserves. As a fan of the original cartoon, which is an all-time classic, I find this movie inane and even offensive. It's a violation of the original that completely wrecks the character and sensibilities of the cartoon.Unfortunately, since anything that makes a buck deserves a sequel, one is in the works. "}{"Title":"Extremely disappointing!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was a BIG disappointment, one of the worst I've seen. The guy who played Shaggy was amazing! He looked and sounded just you might imagine he would.  But the other characters just weren't true to the originals. Freddy was vain and conceited, and they were constantly arguing with each other. Not what I expected at all.  Not even cute or slightly amusing! "},{"Title":"Vile Stuff","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Unless you're a committed fan of the Scooby Doo cartoon strip and other spin offs this is NOT the film to see. It is shallow in the extreme...infinitely shallower than most kidflicks are these days. The charm of the film (the creation of comic strip fun in real life cinema) wears thin after the first ten minutes. The plot is so incredibly thin that the director has had to flesh it out with a number of computer generated tricks. These wear thin ultimately as well. The dialogue is not even remotely clever. Clearly the writers need to examine other films coming out in this genre to be able to cobble together something which is halfway intelligent or , heck, at least funny. Thumbs down.  "},{"Title":"Woeful","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Awful, awful, awful. It's completely unfaithful to the original. I'm not honestly sure that anyone involved in the film had ever actually seen a single episode of Scooby-Doo. Neither he nor Shaggy are supposed to be courageous swashbucklers. The ghosts are not supposed to be real. It's possible I'm being anal-retentive here, but i'm trying to get across to you the sheer wrongness of the film. It was terrible. Awful. And i was looking forward to it so much... >sob< "},{"Title":"Absolutely terrible!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I dreaded watching this movie. It was awful! I mean, REALLY AWFUL! I'm a teenager and I didn't like it. Even Freddie Prinze and Sarah Michelle don't make it any better. Please, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE! It is a waste of money and time. ( "},{"Title":"if you liked this movie","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  then you probably liked Deion Sanders as a rapper,Gerardo,milli vanilli,vanilla ice,Britney Spears,and maybe the cinematic event named longshot.So if you fall into  the liking this category then maybe you should get some help because your mental state cannot be good.so i feel for you please seek help because its people like you who are the main reason so many crackhead movies like this keep coming out cause they figure it will make money so as long as you keep liking itthey will keep on making them  "},{"Title":"Scooby-Doo....I Found You.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I grew up watching Scooby-Doo and all the spinoffs,and have never gotten tired of the antics of Shaggy, Scooby-Doo, Daphne, Velma and Fred as they always foil the plans of a greedy thief. In this they are in their first live action film. This time the gang is taken to an island where Scooby-Doo is being chased by a cult that needs his pure soul to bring an end to the world. What we get is the typical Shaggy and Scooby running for their life and still ending up saving the day. Daphne(Sarah Michelle Gellar),Shaggy(Matthew Lillard), Fred(Feddie Prinze JR.),Velma(Linda Cardellini)and of course Scooby-Doo(voiced by Neil Fanning). I give this film 4 out of 5 because nothing will ever compare to the original cartoon and its characters. SPOILER!!!! As the gang is supposedly defeated as the tribe has taken Scooby's life force we find out that the villian being this particular mask is in fact Scrappy-Doo(voiced Scott Innes) who is tired of being a goody good and not being appreciated for all he had done in the past. Even though Scooby's Spirit has returned to its body Scrappy still enough energy to mutate into a bigger more ferocious creature. As the battle continues the gang teams up against Scrappy at first trying to get through to him, but as it seems hopeless they figure out a way to beat him. As Scrappy is being carted off to the pound he lets out a load of obcenities which is of course being said into the distance, when the news reporters head off to talk to Fred about what has happened he informs them that it was in fact Velma who is the one who came up with the idea that defeated Scrappy and his minions. "},{"Title":"What? You expected Bergman?","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have not read any reviews on the IMDb for Scooby Doo yet. However, judging on the movie group I belong to and other sources, I assume it has been pounded by many reviewers here. In my movie group, it has lately been used as representing the polar opposite of some of the best recent films of a more sophisticated nature (i.e., The Royal Tenenbaums). The hint (and sometimes the STATEMENT rather than the hint!) seems to be that this one belongs in the Movies For Morons category and is used as the best example of how large box office receipts do not necessarily indicate a good film.However, I have come to praise Scooby, not to bury him!  What did you expect? Igmar Bergman at his peak? Did the makers of Scooby Doo ever promise to make viewers forget about DeMille and Bergman-or about Lasse Hallstrom or Wes Anderson, for that matter? Of course not! This is a live action (and CGI) version of a much-loved cartoon series. It was not intended to be a cinematic masterpiece or a deep, brooding work of art that needs PhD.'s to interpret its many layers of meaning. When Shaggy and Scooby held their burping/farting competition (a definite low point in the movie, for me!), their extragastrial projections were not representative of some deeper conflict within modern society. They were simply farts and belches!Scooby Doo succeeded in doing everything director Raja Gosnell intended. It was a fun, fast-paced, clean family movie. It also remained largely true and believable to the Hanna-Barbara cartoon series, despite some interesting character interpretations and expansions.  Although I would have felt a bit sheepish telling members of my movie group that I was going to see it (had it not been a spur-of-the-moment decision), I must openly admit I liked it.As I said, this is not the best film the cinema world has to offer. But it never CLAIMED to be. I found it quite fun and had surprisingly little trouble accepting the cast as my beloved cartoon group. I turned 6 the fall Scooby Doo, Where Are You? debuted, so I grew up with Scoob and his friends and have always cherished the original (scary) season of shows.Matthew Lillard was the difference. He had to sell Shaggy for the film to work. At least for me, he did. I had been concerned when all the talk hit the movie groups about the drug references in the movie. I have to confess that, if I hadn't read about the barbecuing in the van and the Mary Jane line, both would almost certainly have slipped right past me, watching the film. No doubt they shot right over the heads of youngsters, too.  Lillard came across as a Shaggy who had probably tried a few things, but not as a pothead.Neil Fanning's Scooby voice, combined with the CGI Scooby, worked well and Lillard seemed to play off of it well. Sarah Michelle Gellar made an interesting Daphne, equally sexy, but an airhead, rather than just `danger-prone,' as in the cartoon. Freddie Prinze Jr. was fascinating as Fred-a much less likeable Fred than in the cartoons. Linda Cardellini, meanwhile, was the perfect Velma. They even got in a groping-for-her-lost-glasses-two-feet-from-her-nose scene!For once, I'll try to avoid spoilers-although this isn't quite like protecting the secret ending of The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, or other classics. The plot was more than adequate for the situation and the effects were very cool. I WILL say that the secret identity of the mastermind & how he came to do what he did, was INSPIRED! LOL True Scooby Doo fans should appreciate it, too!This is a fine family film. No, it isn't going to erase Mary Poppins or The Wizard of Oz from America's collective memory; yet it pays more than adequate homage to one of the better cartoons series ever created and is certainly worth the price of admission. It did what it set out to do.  "},{"Title":"Ruh-oh, this movie grr-blows chunks!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I seriously detest anything that has to do with Freddie Prinze but since there was little else to see, and my friends were bickering that I should go and make a mockery of this film, I went anyway. B****rds. Anyway, I never was a fan of the original cartoon (it killed my goldfish and my first puppy after they were exposed to this monstrosity of pencil-animation... I was like ten) so I had little expectation this movie would be any good. Good thing.I'll put it like this, running your head into a wall to test the thickness of your skull is more educational and fun than watching this thing which features Freddie looking utterly ridiculous and a talking block of CGI. I couldn't find a single shred of entertainment in this. I just sat there, my face expressionless throughout the two hours of this torture (except feeling sorry for Mr. Lillard killing his career on screen by doing the Shaggy voice). Shrugs.Its really a travesty that there will be a sequel coming soon. I can't imagine how many more eyeballs that could be gouged out.2/10 "},{"Title":"At least it has Matthew Lillard...","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" ... but that is just about the ONLY good thing there is to say about this waste of a lot of talent.  Semi-spoiler warning(!!!)  If you were a fan of the TV series and stopped watching it because a certain new character was introduced for no apparent reason, under no circumstances should you spend any money to see this cinematic fiasco (although a fiasco of chianti and some fava beans might take your mind off of it if you DO see it, because you'll want to go Hannibal Lecter on those responsible for this ... thing).  The character who killed the love of many fans for the series returns as the villain in the movie, and makes a bad movie unbearable.  Scooby Poop is right, Velma! "},{"Title":"Hard to dislike","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Let's make one thing clear this is a film for kids or for adults who want to pretend they are kids for a couple of hours. If you are a 20- or 30-something for whom Scooby Doo was a part of your childhood you will love seeing the classic cartoon turned into a glossy and slick movie, which unashamedly gets most of its laughs by good-natured mocking of the original material. Mostly the film is true to the cartoon (except for the monstrosity of an ending - more on that later) and the attention to detail - the clothes and the voices of the main characters in particular - is hugely satisfying for those seeking a step back in time. It's utterly inane - in other words, exactly what it should be. It's also terrific fun!BIG SPOILER!Now - my one complaint, albeit a big one. This is a major spoiler so stop here if you haven't seen it. Put simplyYOU CANNOT DO THAT TO SCRAPPY DOO!I know I am not alone in thinking that Scrappy was the best thing about the original Scooby series. I always missed him in the episodes he wasn't in. I realise the movie makers wanted to surprise us, but this was going way too far. I mourn Scrappy's soiled reputation and shudder to think that an entire generation will now think of him as an evil egomaniac. Curse you Hollywood!Anyway, rant over, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Special kudos as ever to the fantastic Matthew Lillard, who seems to have studied the character of Shaggy to absolute perfection, and to the animators responsible for a superb Scooby. Also, for someone who was following Aussie soaps at the same time as he was the original Scooby, it was good to see some familiar faces popping up - Isla Fisher of Home and Away fame gives a suitably perky performance as dream-girl-possessed-by-scaly-monster, and - could it be? - yes! the boy with the spiky hair is none other than Kristian Schmidt, or Todd-from-Neighbours - very exciting if you were 10 years old in late 1980s Britain...Thank you to all concerned for helping me relive my childhood. But I still don't forgive you about Scrappy. "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I love this movie, it is very funny and probably now my favourite movie of all time.Sarah Michelle Gellar (aka Buffy) is great in this, this is better than her previous movies like Cruel intentions and i know what you did last summer which were both box office hits. Highly Recommended 10/10 "},{"Title":"2 hour version of VIP but with less breasts and less guns","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have never, in my entire life, seen a movie this bad.  Shocking, this should not be allowed to play in cinemas.  Even children have commented on disappointed this movie was.  It's like a 2 hour version of VIP but without quite as much Pamela. "},{"Title":"Just plain Awful","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was warned this film was disappointing, but nothing could really prepare me for how bad it was. Simply put this just could have been a lot better (and I am a fan of the cartoon too).Firstly it seems to be designed from a very narrow standpoint. People that loved the normal crew but hated Scrappy Doo may be just about catered for. However I can't help but feel the only characters accurate to the TV series was Scooby and Shaggy. I personally would have much rather seen the film simply about those two but they decided to include all the others, including Scrappy who is made a humiliating joke of on several occasions rather then being included in the crew. If the makers really hated the Scrappy cartoons (I seem to remember them being pretty successful at the time so obviously not everyone agrees with them) they should have just forgotten about him. If I had done this I would have happily forgotten about all but Shaggy and Scooby.While Scrappy is made to look pathetic, the other characters comical flaws are somewhat ironed out. Daphne has learnt to do martial arts (no surprise with her being played by Sarah Buffy Michelle Gellar), Velma is far less plain then she should be (putting stupid glasses on a really attractive woman is a very poor movie cliché that never worked). Fred actually comes out even more cardboard then in the cartoons. However he does suddenly become an adept combatant with a chain near the end, which seems somewhat out of character.The film seems undecided about how much is realism and how much is cartoon style. Switching from parody of cartoon events to attempts at originality and back like you're watching two different movies and switching channels. The soundtrack is also similarly confused, sounding like an awkward cartoon parody at some points and virtually empty at others. The plot is predictable, as are the jokes (and they are pretty slow to come too). Even the special effects are poor and unimaginative.The plot...well the less said about that the better. You can see what they've tried to do with it, and frankly that was a bad idea to start with. It's a bad idea done badly. The plot holes would be forgivable in this kind of movie were it not for all the other flaws. The attempts to inflict Hollywood morality (The perfect people are totally perfect and the freaks should be ridiculed and laughed at) ruins most of what could have been good. All that is left are the two elements that were central and safe from being messed with Scooby and Shaggy.Of the cast the only one I could say did a good performance is Matthew Lillard as Shaggy. Sarah Michelle Gellar did pretty well too, but her character was ruined by the scripts and she was given way too much screen time for the character (obviously she was going to be a big draw, so you can see why they did that, the same with the kick boxing).If you want to see this kind of film, but done well I'd recommend the newAustin Powers movie. True it's less of a family movie, but its pretty close in style to Scooby Doo, the only difference being that you will probably enjoy Austin Powers even if you find it somewhat disposable. If you want to see a modern parody of Scooby Doo (with no Scrappy at all btw) I'd suggest downloading the special the cartoon network did called The Scooby Doo project.Unfortunately this is the kind of film most people will see regardless of what others say simply for curiosity (that's why I'm here). So unfortunately a sequel is highly likely. But you never know, if they just keep it with Scooby and Shaggy it could be very good. The odd brief moment of the two of them in this film showed an amount of promise.  "},{"Title":"Scooby Don't Hollow cartoon adaptation goes to the dogs","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Since the uninteresting Hanna-Barbera cartoon series Scooby-Doo managed to hang around television screens for over 30 years, it was apparently decidedat some point that it was a legitimate pop culture phenomenon and thus perfect summer-movie material. As a result, this inevitable feature-length incarnation of the eponymous Great Dane and his Mystery Inc. supporting cast has finally hit the big screen. Fred (Freddie Prinze, Jr.), Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Velma (Linda Cardellini), and Shaggy (Matthew Lillard) have suddenly split up after solving a case in a factory that manufactures Pamela Anderson dolls &#150; insert your own joke &#150; simply because Fred takes all the accolades for their accomplishments. However, they're instantly reunited after being summoned individually to the same destination a haunted house-themed amusement park called Spooky Island. Requesting their services is park owner Mondavarious (Rowan Atkinson), who has cause for alarm after discovering that someone, or something, is turning his college-age clientele into zombies. Disneyland, it's not.Scooby-Doo, directed by Raja Gosnell, is an uninspired mongrel that proves Hollywood still hasn't learned from its past mistakes in converting half-hour cartoons to megaplex fodder, the recent flops The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Josie and the Pussycats notwithstanding. (Nor has it gotten the hint that Prinze and Lillard should not work together again following the debacle that was Wing Commander.) The inferiority of screenwriter James Gunn's lifeless mystery plot is clearly evident, it has to be camouflaged with a combination of inane dialogue, overuse of CGI, and a truly atrocious ending.The task at hand is so crucial that Scooby and Shaggy find time on the side for an abundance of pot jokes and a lengthy farting contest. Yes, a farting contest. If Mystery Inc. can regularly afford to partake in such nonsense in between solving crimes, then, by God, I want their jobs. There is also a fair amount of cleavage on display courtesy of nearly every female in the picture from the extras to our heroines. Oh boy, flatulence competitions, drug humor, and big breasts. Always the reliable staples of quality family entertainment. Things sure have changed in the course of three decades, haven't they?If there's anything positive that surfaces from this dreck, it's the fact that Lillard is dead-on with Shaggy's voice and goofy mannerisms. On the other hand, Prinze has the looks and charisma of a Ken doll as the egotistic Fred. Gellar and Cardellini portray whiny, two-dimensional personalities Daphne continuously complains about being the damsel in distress while knocking out hulking bodybuilders, and Velma continuously acts jealous of Fred. It's a shame that Atkinson, who can easily act circles around this cast, receives less screen time than an insignificant voodoo master (Miguel A. Nunez, Jr., who's currently starring in another stinker, Juwanna Mann). The filmmakers' only concern seemed to regard how good the cast looked on screen. There's no reason at all to care about any of these characters.However, the treatment of the human cast is a milquetoast in contrast to Scooby's role. Something is definitely amiss when the famous namesake of a summer blockbuster movie does little more than act as Shaggy's computer-animated armpiece while failing to believably blend in with any of his surroundings. The best example of a film combining cartoon characters with real-life environments remains Who Framed Roger Rabbit? And that was 14 years ago.While immortalizing pop culture phenomena worked for Spider-Man, it doesn't even come close here. Just labeling Scooby-Doo a pop culture phenomenon is absurd. It doesn't take Mystery Inc. to decipher why this picture is such a disaster. But to those titillated by lousy storytelling coupled with unfunny pot and potty humor, this dud's for you. 3/10  "},{"Title":"I've never been more bored...","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have to start this review by saying that this is one of the most cringeworthy films I have EVER seen. From start to finish, the poor production values and bad script held it back from being what it should have been... ie, funny, slapstick, cartoon-style comedy. I was almost bored enough to go to sleep, and apart from one or two places here and there I didn't laugh at all.The cast did the best they could with an absolutely terrible script, and the storyline was almost non-existent. I simply can't believe they didn't can this film after realising how bad it was going to be. The CGI was terrible - the lighting was all wrong, and none of it fit in properly. Maybe that was intended, but in my eyes it just looked awful and impaired my enjoyment of the film (not that I was enjoying it anyway, you understand).And for a final groan - why the hell did they bother creating the love interest between Fred and Daphne? Why, why, why? Every time I see a Hollywood film, there always has to be a love interest, and frankly that really annoys me. There was no need for it.Absolutely terrible. Excuse me, I need to go vomit now, and send it to Warner Bros. They'll probably think it's gold or something, after all their judgement must be terrible given that they released this awful movie. "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  If you want to waste your time and your money, this is the movie. I have never ever seen anything that bad except only a broken wrist. Even the special effect have a 70's look of it "},{"Title":"Spiderman goood Scooby doo baaad!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  For the past 12 years me and a few of my closest friends have done very funny Scooby impressions whilst either being under the influence of various chemicals. Also my mate is a living version of shaggy. We are like just about every other Scooby fan that encouraged this film to be made. The problem is with this film is not the bad acting or cheesy dialogue. After all Scooby is based on that. I know it is a writer's job to research a film but they must have been really stoned to come up with the story line of this film. Shaggy stoned, not the writers. Not to give the film away. I can promise you that you will leave the cinema angry that they have betrayed the very basics of what Scooby is. This is a prime example of an over thought film. I was impressed with the Scooby and shaggy combo and convinced by the special effects but that is it. Anybody who is in their mid 20's grew up on Scooby snacks and a weird affection for the female characters (maybe only me then). I can't really complain as Spiderman, batman and superman (the three things I decided to be when I was four) have all been well done films. I pray that the incredible hulk will not fall into the trap of this film. The worst thing about the film is that I did not leave the cinema doing Scooby impressions and wanting Scooby snacks when I get home. I went to bed disappointed "},{"Title":"Not enough for this fan","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  While the costumes were accurate and the cheesy dialogue was fun, the entire movie was not what this fan wanted. If anyone should see this movie it should *only* be based on two points...1) See it for the actor Matthew Lillard and only him. He is Shaggy and plays his role perfectly! They could not have chosen a better and more talented actor to play this lovable part. None of the other actors play their role like their cartoon counter-part. Matthew plays his role and does it well. 2) The Mystery Machine van. Nothing beats its unique look. The shag carpet was an added bonus.The beginning was the best part of the movie. After they all departed, it went downhill. I was highly disappointed and am hoping someone will remake the film and do it right this time.The new generation of Scooby-Doo fans may like it (for it's interesting casting job), but will not understand some of its humor. From this older fan...I did not. I got the jokes and I laughed at its dialogue, but overall it was a total disappointed. Very sorry. "},{"Title":"Scooby-Dooby-Doo! Where's the sequal!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Like man, this film rocks! Atlast, I watched Scooby-Doo a few days ago and it's great. Definatly a good big screen version! There's laughs, action, and all the ingredients to live up to the cartoon. And Scoobys just as loveable as Cartoon Scooby. He looks cute, acts cute, is cute! I don't agree that this is only for under tens, I'm fifteen and I loved it! If your interested in seeing it then go see it!! The only problem I have, and I wanna get this out of the way, is that is could have been a bit longer to reach the 1 and a half hour mark. This didn't spoil the movie at all though and the movie remains hilarious to the end credits and beyond...The action scenes are great and remain funny and frantic just like the series and I thoroughly enjoyed seeing these 2-Dimensional characters jump to life in the form of such fantastic actors! And they did a great job to say that in the entire film they had to react to CGI effects that were added later! This was done incredibly well!   Now then, a look at the cast...Scooby...  Scooby is brilliant and you can't help but love the cute hound as usual! He is hilariously funny, looks authentic and realistic while still remaining comical. Also his eating antics remain and are hysterical! With Matthew Lillard adding just as much humour!Shaggy...  Matthew Lillard plays Shaggy and has done a damn good job too! His voice is spot on, he looks identical and is one of the funniest guys around! I heard that Mike Myers was originally set to play Shaggy but he dropped out, well good! Myers is great in the Austin Powers films but in Scooby-Doo? I don't think so. Lillard and Scooby have great chemistry to say that Scooby wasn't actually there and was added later! It takes some talent to be able to do what Lillard and crew have done and they've done great. If there's a sequal, Matthew Lillard better be in it!Daphne...  Sarah Michelle Gellar IS Daphne and brings a new feisty element to the character. She even kicks ass in the finale! Bringin' some Buffy moves with an extra kick of fury! She also looks great in her many outfits!!! I always liked Daphne, and for one of my favourite actresses to play her...well it was a real treat!Fred... Freddie Prinze Jr. is a good choice as the leader of the group and I couldn't imagine anyone else playing him, he also brings a more funny element that the cartoon version may have lacked a little. While not a central as Scooby, Shaggy and Daphne, Fred is still a good character!Velma...  Not having seen Linda Cardellini in many programs before, I was pleasantly pleased with how good she is at playing Velma. I think she's definatly a rising star and has been given a great oppurtunity in this movie! Jinkies!Scooby-Doo has an excellent cast, who don't dissapoint and bring laughs through the entire duration. I just hope there will be a sequal, starring the same cast and that there won't be a long wait!   A great movie that I can't wait to own!9 and a half Scooby-Snacks out of ten! (would have been ten if it were slightly longer).  "},{"Title":"Doing the Scooby Doo !","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  If you love the cartoon, you'll simply love this movie, Last time I saw the cartoon was back in my school days, sometime back in the middle ages! Generally it's a colourfully funny slapstick fantasy comedy that you'll enjoy for all your own reasons, wither it be Scooby's goofey laughs and expressions or Sarah-Michelle-Geller's ever revealling . . . . purple Outfits!  "}{"Title":"A great nostalgic romp into the world of ScoobyDoo *Spoilers*","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went into the Scooby Doo movie with mixed feelings.  On one hand it was the first live action version of the movie, and as such the first PROPER Scooby movie, but on the other hand it had such terribly overhyped stars as Freddy Prinze Jr and Sarah Michelle Gellar.  Luckily however, I was not disapointed and found myself having fun throughout the movie.The plot opens up midway through a 'ghost hunt' in a toy factory, with the gang hatching a plan to catch the apparition.  Velma as usual comes through and the culprit is demasked as Old Man Swithers. ( I was so damn close in my estimation of Old Man Withers.  After all, isn't it ALWAYS an old man somebody or other?  After the arrest, and obligatory 'You damn pesky kids' speech, Fred takes all the credit for the plan and Velma has enough.   She leaes the group before everyone else quickly goes there seperate ways.Cut to two years later, and each of the ex-Mystery Machine crew receive an invitation to solve a mystery on Spooky Island, a theme park owned by the eccentric like Rowan Atkinson.  There the gang bands together once more and uncovers a plot to release the power of peoples souls to make one person all powerful.The acting for the most part is far from spectacular, with the aforementioned Gellar and Prinze really hamming up their roles of Daphne and Fred.  This however, is no bad thing as it adds to the whole 'classic' feel of the movie.  The star of the show however has to be Matthew Lillard, who steals the show as Shaggy.  Not content with being a spitting image of the lanky klutz, Matthew's voice mimics perfectly the original Shaggy's strained tones.The animation is great throughout, with Scooby, all the monsters and even Scrappy Doo making their appearance in all their CGI glory.   Many critics and other people have criticised the filmmakers for making Scooby look fake, but that's just it  HE IS FAKE!  Scooby has always been a cartoon and trying to make him look realistic as possible would pull much of the fun away from the movie.  Anyways, it's pretty hard to get a real dog to skateboardalong a conveyorbelt with barrels and blades spinning all around.The humor of the film is, as always, very basic and comes in many forms, mainly slapstick.  In the cinema, people of all ages will be amused as there is even jokes for the adults spattered throughout.  It however, never gets too far gone as at it's heart this is still mainly a kid's movie.  There was one part of the movie, where I was the only person to laugh and that's because I pictured something else completely going in.  Scooby and Shaggy are in the Mystery Machine cooking burgers and we see the smoke rise from the roofof the van.  This alluded me to the Scooby scene in 'Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back' where Jay pulls out his own unique 'Doobie Snacks'.Overall, this film should appeal to people of all ages, from veterans of the original 50's series to people who have only ever seen the film.  Be warned however, that watching this film will probably make you drop a couple of IQ points due to its simplicity.  Don't let this detract you however, as this is definitely THE family film of the summer. "},{"Title":"Just how a live action flick of a cartoon should be. (2 spoilers)","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  *** I made the huge mistake of commenting on this movie after only seeing the first half, sorry ***This is a movie I didn't want to bother going to see at the cinema but I was curious to see (like Potter I suppose). I managed to download it about 3 weeks back and it's been sitting on my drive since then. Tonight I wanted to clear some space so I watched this before trashing it and I'm really glad I did. It immediately made me think of the cartoon that I haven't seen for so many years. 'Nothing unusual about that' you may be thinking but for me, 'Flintstones' spring to mind. How rubbish that was. (Thinking about that, the brought to life part was great, it was just the story that sucked). I think that this has to be the best 'human' version of a cartoon I've ever seen. I did get a bit p***ed off when Scrappy Doo made an appearance but thankfully (and again at the end of the movie but...... I'll let you find out), it was only a very brief one. If you remember (and liked (even only partially)) Scooby Doo as a kid, see this, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Family Film","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A film for the young and old.  The whole family enjoyed it.  Some scenes may be frightening to young children.  I would highly recommend it and may even buy the dvd when it comes out.  It was well cast.  Each actor/actress played their roles perfectly. "},{"Title":"A real treat for Scooby fans!","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was fun right from the first minute. We really enjoyed it. Matthew Lillard made a brilliant Shaggy, which was really important. The effects were great. And the story was just right. I can't see how anyone who is a fan of the cartoon won't like the movie just as much.  "},{"Title":"Scooby and the gang are back","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  After many years of clowning around in a cartoon format, Warner Brothers has finally decided to make Scooby Doo a live action film.  We have had to wait a while for this transition to occur... but lets face it, it was worth the wait.Laden with Scooby Doo in-jokes, this film is both funny and true to the original format of the series.  Almost surprisingly, Matthew Lillard makes Shaggy come to life straight out of the pages of a comic book.  The rest of Mystery inc. seem to do the same...As a lifelong Scooby fan, I can only say Watch this film.  It is worth it. "},{"Title":"Good music, great CGI, bad ending","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!!Well, as a fan of the Scooby-Doo cartoon on TV for many years(and I still watch it, even at the age of 26!)I was a bit disappointed with the film. It was very much like watching an 90 min or so episode of Scooby-Doo, but with  characters that are really cheesy. The only two characters of the Mystery Inc. team that I thought were good was Shaggy and Scooby. The CGI for Scooby was fantastic. The soundtrack was great. The major let down of the film was the lousy ending. How on earth could they make Scrappy-Doo evil???? It just isn't right! Sure he was always the one of the two dogs that wanted to be in the action but couldn't because he was so small and the rest of the gang didn't want him to get hurt, but calling him a dog with 'thyroid problems'??? Please......get real director! Scrappy-Doo was never evil! How could you????? "},{"Title":"A witty summer movie...","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film was no Oscar nominated drama, but that doesn't mean that it is not a good show.  I thought that it was hilarious.  The characters were very well cast.  (I am a fan of Sarah Michelle Gellar to begin with.)  Did I mention that it is Hilarius.  It is funny for grownups and teenagers, while still being entertaining and appropriate for kids.  In fact, this is the first Freddy Prinze Jr. movie I have seen where, after which, I didn't want my money back.  (i have nothing against him, it's just that his movies are very formulated and they are all pretty much the same.)To sum up, the movie was a good modern remake of the cartoon. "},{"Title":"Terrible Acting","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo has got to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  It is a good thing that I didn't pay to get in.  My best friend bought my ticket (my turn next time!).  The acting and storyline was awful!!!  No Oscars for these folks!!  Scooby Doo was cute, and the guy who played Shaggy's voice was o.k., but that's all it had going for it!!  I enjoyed myself by snoring during the movie to irritate my friend and her girls!!  I won't be buying the video when it comes out for my 2 year old!  "},{"Title":"Pretty good (Minor spoilers about a character)","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This was pretty good, even if it was just a typical summer movie.  I liked how Shaggy and Velma were portrayed.  Fred and Daphne.. eh- they could use some work.  What I was most interested in was the angle of Velma meeting someone, and someone who is (IMHO) pretty cute.  Of course, you ARE getting this from a high-school girl.... "},{"Title":"A must see for kids and parents","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  OMG! How can all you people say that this is not a good movie?? I thought it was awesome! Definitely one of the best movies I have ever seen. Matthew Lillard was an A+ for Shaggy. Velma was great. Sarah Michelle Gellar was perfect for Daphne. Fred was a little stiff, but OK. Everybody's saying the CG Scooby was poorly done, but wouldn't it also look bad for a guy in a Scooby suit to do it instead?? It was also hilarious, despite what everybody says about the farting contest. It's a great family movie. If your kids are begging to go, I recommend you take them. It's definitely a MUST SEE!! "}{"Title":"SCRAPPY SUCKS! CAUTION CONTAINS SPOILERS","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Scooby Doo a few weeks ago, and LOVED it! Ever since I was little girl, I have been a huge fan of Scooby Doo. And when I discovered there was going to be a movie, I thought it's about time.Basically the gang gets into a fight and everyone quits and goes their separate ways (except for Shaggy and Scooby, who stick together). But two years later they all mysteriously meet up at the airport. It seems they were all invited to solve a case on Spooky Island. But the gang is in for more then they have bargained for.For a Scooby Doo movie, the writers have changed a lot. But it was still entertaining. For instance, the monsters were much scarier than the usual guys in masks. And the gang does things that never have happened in the show. Daphne is sick of being captured by the monsters, and has become a little butt-kicker. Fred reveals his feelings for Daphne. Velma becomes better friends with Fred. And Shaggy shows little hints about himself; Mary Jane My name is Mary Jane. Shaggy Like, that's my favorite name. Hmmmmm... But Scooby is still the same, and I'm glad about that.But when I was in the theater and a scene came on with SCRAPPY DOO I was horrified! I hate that little...THING. I'm sorry to say, that every time that puppy was on screen I wanted to jab my straw into my eyes! But I cracked up when the gang ditches him in the middle of nowhere. (I wonder why they didn't do that sooner. How could they stand it!?) In the end, when Scrappy was revealed as the villain, yes, it did surprise me. But when Scooby knocked him out, I gave a standing ovation. Finally, I didn't have to hear his yapping anymore.I give this movie ****** out of *****. It had a good story, was casted perfectly, while the whole time stayed true to the show. I'm going to get this movie when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Just As Fun And Great As The Cartoon!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I loved Scooby Doo!!! I watched the show as a child, and I think it is responsible for my love of horror films, but I swear I have seen just about every Scooby Doo cartoon ever made. The whole cast in this movie was great! I couldn't believe who the villian was. I mean, it was REALLY surprising. I highly recommend this movie! It is great! I give Scooby-Doo a 10 out of 10!!! )Rooby-Dooby Doo! "},{"Title":"Not The Movie I Wanted","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" SPOILERS PLOT POINTS I've been a Scooby fan since near the beginning and I remember what it was like when it started out. It was Gothic and scary and played straight, but toward the end as Scooby talked more, it became more of just another cartoon. That's what I wanted to see, a return to the series roots instead of the animation brought to life. This movie could have been so much better centered on the kids and with a real Great Dane while they saved the graphics for the dog's stunts. The series origin was more like the kids looking for real ghosts and instead solving mysteries. Later on, it seemed as if they became unrealistic amateur detectives with a bit of undeserved notoriety. What the movie is a live-action cartoon from the weakest end of the series with every cartoon contrivance and animated snafu recreated in real life surroundings. Not much has been altered and nothing has been altered. It's just the cartoon in the real world instead of a real life Scooby gang. On the other hand, Matthew Lillard is the star to watch as he mugs, leers, grins and is more Shaggy than the animated counterpart. Sarah Michelle Gellar exudes more sex and cleavage here than as Buffy; in fact, even Cardellini gives Velma a bit of sex appeal when she wears a v-neck sweater instead of a turtle neck for a few scenes. Fred, however, is done wrong as Prinze portrays him as a dimwit in love with himself. Even Daphne is changed a bit, but it's for the better as a stronger character. Fred should have been played straight without looking for gags. Lillard and Cardellini, however, have Shaggy and Velma down pat from his cast-iron stomach to her love-hate thing with her glasses. The worst news is that Scrappy has been included in on this roller coaster ride as the worst wrench in the works. He should have been left out completely as he was the one worst thing to ruin the series. Whoever wrote the script obviously stole a few scenes from the million or so We Hate Scrappy websites. Rowan Atkinson becomes more live and animated than his Mr. Bean persona though and the bad guy from The Temple of Doom returns as well. The movie also has a number of bad jokes concerning body swapping and body noises, but on the whole, it's still worth a watch just to see the cartoon in our world. I also wouldn't mind seeing a sequel if such a thing were possible. "},{"Title":"One hilariously great movie!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Bryan Clark, you have not fooled me with that mask and new name!  I love you to pieces!  You were spectacular!  This movie has a good plot, strong characters, and is hilariously well scripted.  The location was awesome, and the graphics are excellent.  I'd see it again!  I'm definitely buying the video when it comes out!  I haven't enjoyed a movie this much in a long time.   "},{"Title":"Scooby for the new generation","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  To make this short I absolutely loved this movie.  I was surrounded by the age-group of 5-12 years old and I think I laughed harder than all of them together.  Being a truly dedicated Scooby fan I am glad to say that the film makers stayed true to the roots of the original cartoon.  Matthew Lillard was absolutely fantastic.  He's got the look, the voice, the little laugh, the perfect embodiment of Norville 'Shaggy' Rogers.  Isla Fisher was almost definately a scene stealer.  10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Scooby-Don't!","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Add another victim to the list of enjoyable TV cartoons turned into terrible movies.  The actors portraying Shaggy and Velma were right on the mark, but everything else was way off, especially Fred.  My kids love movies and they love the Scooby cartoons, but they sat there practically bored to death in this movie.  The only laugh the movie got out of them was the cheap gas gag.  We were all very disappointed in this movie. "},{"Title":"Great flick","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This a good film with great humor.  It kept true to the cartoon as I remember it as a kid.  Myself and the family enjoyed ourselves through out the entire movie.Oh, and it has the best fart scene since Blazing Saddles.  This will become a classic. "},{"Title":"This mystery provides some light entertainment.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I saw this film when it came to theaters and have to say while it by no means is a work of art, I found it rather amusing in sections. It kept me entertained as do a lot of mindless popcorn summer flicks which this was one. The mystery gang clears up a mystery right at the beginning of the film, but end up breaking up essentially and going their own way. Well they are reunited on an island where they have another mystery to solve and it is of course rather wacky. The cast is good, they do in fact remind me of live action versions of the cartoon characters. However, Scooby is computer generated and looks a bit off. Granted this movie is a bit older now, but even back then I think they could have done a better job with the way he looked. I do not think a real dog would have done the trick though as they to often look off too when made to look as if they are talking. An interesting villain of choice in this one as it may not come as a total shock, it was still a funny surprise. There would be a sequel to this film that would not be nearly as successful which is not surprising in that this one may have performed well at the box office, but is generally hated by critics and a lot of the audiences too. Still, while it was no work of art as I have said, I still enjoyed it for what it was. "},{"Title":"Totally hilarious1","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Scooby Doo is a great family film which everyone can enjoy.  The people chosen for the roles of Fred, Daphne, Velma, and Shaggy were good... but Matthew Lillard was absolutely the only choice for Shaggy. The animated Scooby was hilarious and very well done. Overall I give this movie and A-. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was great, I went and saw it with a friend and we could stop laughing! Even though I love Sarah Michelle Gellar and Freddie Prinze Jr. I didn't think they could pull it off but they did, and It was great! Matthew Lillard was AWESOME as Shaggy and the voice he did was terrific. Linda Cardellini also did a great voice and out of all of the actors she did the best representation (right down the her actions when she lost her glasses). It was great also to know that after all the rumors - Scott Innes did the voice of Scooby-Doo (He has done most of the recent cartoon-movies and episodes) The best part of the movie is went they switch bodies for a few minutes (I'm not telling you how, or what happens but it's absolutely hilarious!) 10/10 "}{"Title":"An odious film","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went to my local cinema expecting to see a fun, somewhat retro light summer comedy--and you would not believe the steaming pile that they served up to me in exchange for MONEY.  My heart bled for the poor actors trapped in this unimaginative, stupid script they deserved better.  In lieu of characters, we were given cheesy, weary-looking CGI effects.  In lieu of humor, we were given flatulence and pee-pee.  What a vile waste of time. "},{"Title":"Scooby-Doo is fun entertainment for kids and fans of the cartoon series.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The Scooby-Doo gang are now veteran mystery solvers. Fame, if not fortune, has hit the group. However, things aren't going so well for our heroes. Fred has become egotistical and takes credit for the group's success. Velma feels under appreciated.  Daphne resents being the one that is always the damsel in distress. They decide to split up leaving Shaggy and Scooby all alone.Two years later Shaggy and Scooby receive a mysterious invitation to Spooky Island, a scary amusement park. The park's creator, Mondavarious, requests their aid in solving a mystery. It turns out that all the college students coming to the island leave as brainwashed zombies. Shaggy and Scooby initially turn the invitation down, but relent with the promise of all the food they can eat (of course). At the airport they discover that the rest of the group has been invited, too. Thus Mystery Inc. tentatively reunites to solve the puzzle of Spooky Island.I went into this movie very skeptical. In fact, after watching the first 10 minutes I thought, This is really going to suck. However, the movie picked up and by the end I really enjoyed it. I thought it was about as close as you could get to putting a live action version of the cartoon on screen. For the most part, it is faithful to its origins. Characters try to run away and spin out in mid air. Scooby and Shaggy beg for Scooby Snacks. A villain complains about meddling kids. It's pretty much everything you'd expect.While most of the cast is mediocre, Matthew Lillard as Shaggy and the CGI Scooby-Doo really make the movie. Lillard nails the Shaggy character so perfectly that you'd think the cartoon was based on HIM. His voice and mannerisms are dead on. He also works perfectly with the CGI Scooby-Doo. Scooby is cartoony yet hilarious. He's just like the cartoon character as well. While acting rather human-like, he's still not above chasing the occasional cat. He's also guided by his stomach rather than his brain. One funny scene features Scooby getting a phone call. A creepy voice says, If you want all the hamburgers you can eat, go into the dark and scary woods where nobody can see you and meet me there. OK!! he enthusiastically responds.The movie had my attention most of the way through, and that's a major feat. Luckily being kid friendly didn't mean they had to compromise on humor. There are some humorous references to rumors of Shaggy being a stoner and such that pass totally over kid's heads but the adults catch. Jokes about Scooby drinking out of the toilet, cleaning himself at Don Knott's party, and other such dog-related humor bring a lot of laughs, too.Besides that, this film had great sets and a fun soundtrack.I don't know which Scooby-Doo cartoons these writers saw, but they must have seen something different than I did. I never remembered Freddie being an egotistical chauvinist. I didn't remember Daphne being the constant damsel in distress. I didn't remember Velma being ignored in credit for the captures. And I certainly didn't remember Scrappy Doo being an evil little pip squeak that everyone hated. Annoying? Yes. Misguided? Yes. Hated? Maybe only by the adult fans of the series, and that really shows up in this film. The characterizations of these characters are the only parts of the film that are unfaithful to the cartoon. This ties into the ending as well which I don't want to spoil here. I'll just say I found it a little disappointing.Most of the cast is pretty mediocre. Freddie Prinze Jr. stands out as the most miscast of the group. I could never get over him being blonde. It just didn't look right. Sarah Michelle Gellar was a lot of fun in the movie, but I never thought of her as the definitive Daphne. Lillard was just so perfect that he made the rest of the cast seem out of place.In the end Scooby-Doo could have been a total disaster, but winds up being some fun summer entertainment. Scooby-Doo has its problems, but it is still probably one of the better live action cartoon adaptations to come along. "},{"Title":"scooby dont","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  My advice to anyone that hasnt seen this movie yet is to not waste your money unless you enjoyed the cartoon version of scooby doo. It is exactly like it. But if you emjoyed the cartoons you will love the movie. "},{"Title":"Ups and Downs, Way Downs!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It seems like this one shouldn't have been made into a movie just yet, and if they did they should have planned it out a bit better. The characters in this movie, are like the characters in the show. But the story, settings and script just dont work. It seems like the whole movie was just to show you that they could make the characters come alive. Not only the lack of back bone to the story, is the bad animated scooby itself. Scooby looks like a big warewolf or something. But if your not into dissing movies a whole lot, maybe you can see through this movie and enjoy it as a way to renew the love for the show and its characters. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, A Job Well Done.","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie the characters were fantastic especially Shaggy & Scooby Doo, The story was fantastic, everything was how I expected it, I do hope they make more LIVE ACTION Scooby Doo films and keep the same Actors & Actresses they all did a wonderful job.Well Done, 10/10Scooby Scooby Doooooooo!!! "},{"Title":"Horrible, horrible, horrible","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  As a fan of the original cartoon, this film  did the series very little justice. Maybe  creating live action movies for cartoons  is a bad idea. Look at what happened to  Rocky and Bullwinkle? Truly, the last great  movie to mix in animation with live action  proved to be the most ground breaking; Who  Framed Roger Rabbit? While I will say Fred,  Shaggy and Daphne were well cast, Linda  Cardellini looked too pretty to be Velma.  Heck, take her out of the goofy sweater and  she looks better than the skeletal Sarah  Michelle Geller. This was just a mess of  a film, with an annoying soundtrack to boot. "},{"Title":"Decent film, Scooby and shaggy are brilliant but far too many 'jokes' that no one who'd watched the original cartoon would get.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Some Spoilers (albeit obvious ones) This film is clearly written by/for fans of the ORIGINAL cartoon and is full of nostalgia and nostalgic jokes, but this isn't to say it's bad. I remember the original cartoons and i love them dearly as brilliant entertainment, i too hate scrappy doo and anything which came later and i assume the writers of this film take the same view. Now, I enjoyed this film, whilst at the same time it annoyed me. I can't ever remember daphne being a female version of shaggy, but in this film this is exactly what she is. Fred is as boring as he was in the cartoon and Velma is spot on so congratulations to the makers for those two. Where this film really works is in the brilliant (i do mean brilliant) performance of Matthew Lillard as Shaggy, I've disliked him since i saw him in Hackers but I've got to admit he gets shaggy spot on and his stuff with Scooby Doo is very funny.This film isn't a updated version for todays kids, it's for anyone over the age of 16 who watched scooby doo as a kid and likes reminiscing of the good old days when childrens tv didn't involve pokemon and rugrats, this is one reason why this film could be criticised. They got the balance all wrong, this film really should have been aimed for kids but include a few jokes what would draw a laugh from the older crowd. They wrote the film for the 16-26 bracket, same bracket of audience who like teen movies but this teen movie replaces sex with a great dane. This i believe is a mistake.In general i liked the film, some things annoyed me, like when Fred and Daphne kiss at the end, there was no need for it! What fan of the original would like to see Shaggy get a girl friend, even if it is Isla Fisher! This whole film just has too much college feel and it's all wrong because it should be for kids and at times i cringed during it.I'd suggest people watch it because shaggy and scooby are just class, daphne is a joke but it is not Gellar's fault, the character has been wrote wrong and she's like a dizzy version of Buffy. If the producers could have got Daphne right and addressed the balance between entertainment for new scooby doo fans and old scooby doo fans then this film would have been brilliant, sadly they have put most of their eggs in the old boys basket and it might come back and haunt them.Rating 7/10 - I'm forgiving and to credit this film any less with the performance that Shaggy and Scooby put on would be criminal. "},{"Title":"why does it deserve the bashing it gets","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  where too start scooby doo, is a fairly good movie for what it is - a live action reworking of the classic and loved cartoon.  i guess all the critisism comes from the classic old folks who grew up watching the classic cartonn when it started in the late 60's.  they are atacking this movie for everything it is worth when truth be know that this movie isn't made for them... it was made to recapture a new generation of scooby fans - not their naive parents  who slap this movie for its homosexual/lesbian subtext, its drug references and everything else about it (and i mean c`mon - people who watched this from the start in the 60's and 70's would've ben decencetised against all that stuff ages ago) another thing the critics bag out is the cast - sure i know Freddy Prinze Jr is bad, and i think people realise that he was chosen for his star power rather than his character motif.  Mathew Lillard was superb, nothing else can be said, Sarah Michelle Gellar was good - but i don't think it was a case of her lack of acting abilities, but more the lack of character material she could work with - Daphne was the babe of the show, not the brawn, not the brains, but the sex-on-legs type damsel in destress character - and her turn to super vixen was not very welcome... it was too...buffy. Linda Cardelinie was champion as were the compurot creators of scooby (scrappy was annoying) well thats it - think people ar eonly attacking it coz of its premise, nothing more "},{"Title":"it was reallllly good","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  i just went to see the scooby doo movie; and after hearing over and over again that it sucked, i just had to see it for myself. not only did it not suck, i thought that shaggy and velma were amazing. matthew lillard should win an oscar for his impression of shaggy. i also thought that the movie should be rated on what it is, a kids movie. and with that, i felt that it was honestly one of the best out there. it taught morals on how friends should act and such. i cried, i laughed, i loved it. go see it.  "},{"Title":"entertaining but too many non kid things and getting away from the series...","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  this may contain some spoilers.to start things off, i enjoyed the movie.  it was entertaining.  a good, average movie that has the allure of being tied to something i already know.now, as for the non-kid things, the jokes about drug use were just plane wrong for 'a kids movie'.  the producers may have put them in to appeal to teenagers and young adults who wanted to see the movie for nostalgia purposes, and we all have heard rumors about what shaggy 'really is' or whats in scooby snacks.  but the fact that this is a real life version of a kids cartoon makes their actions deplorable.i am not a jerry fallwell or anything here, but it does bother me the 'crass' nature of many of these movies and how despite what we as parents try to teach them, they think certain words and behaviors are ok because they see it so frequently in the movies and on television.and while it personally didn't bother me, i thought velma and her post- 'transformation' chest was a bit much for kids as well. (not that i minded though)the fighting between the group was something that was not in the series, but i guess needed to make it into a 90 minute movie.  i personally didn't like the fact that, unlike the cartoons, there was a 'real' supernatural element to the villian.  of course, we still got to hear- and it would have worked too, if not for the meddling kids...as for the characters, shaggy was right on.  velma seemed pretty good as well, except for the overblown idea of wanting to be liked by the 'cool kids.'  fred deviated from the series quite a bit with his egotism.  i wasn't that impressed by him.  i thought he and daphne were cast more for their name recognition.one thing i will defend the film on, and that is that movies of old tv series often do things to pay homage to the series...sometimes that is in parody.  a lot of people HATED scrappy and that could be responsible for his role in the film.  heck, the brady bunch movies were did more to make fun of the original show than anything, and they were hillarious.a good movie, and if you just like going to the movies worth seeing.  if not, its worth a rent.  fans of the series should enjoy it. "}{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I was glad I went to see it before reading the reviews.  I enjoyed the movie, it had the look and feel of the cartoon.  There was a lot of laughter from people in the audience, kids loved it.  As previously stated by others, Shaggy was right on and Fred was completely off.  I can understand why some people would hate it, I just can't understand why they went in the first place.  I mean if your looking for a deeper mystery, go and see The Bourne Identity.  After all, this is a kid's movie based on a kid's cartoon.  You don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure that out. "},{"Title":"Great for Drunks, Retards, and Kids.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Boy, this movie was pure junk, imagine the brady bunch meets Hong Kong Fooey and this is what you get.  The script was probably written by an exec who was only thinking about money and not realizing that in order to make entertainment work, it has to entertain.  The list goes on about how to make a better movie but it will never happen since people are gobbling up this poo by the truckloads.  And I should mention that Scooby is one of the stupidest creations ever made from a computer, he makes Jar Jar from Star Wars look bad. "},{"Title":"SCOOBY DON'T!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  SCOOBY &#150; DOO (2002) *1/2 Freddie Prinze, Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Matthew Lillard, Linda Cardellini, Rowan Atkinson, Scott Innes (voice) (Cameos as themselves Pam Anderson, Mark McGrath).  Zoinks!  Horrendously bad adaptation of the cult classic Hanna-Barbera cartoon series that is a misfire from the getgo involving the crime-solving quintet of friends Fred, Daphne, Velma, Shaggy and the titular Great Dane (in ascending order of best acting Prinze &#150; who manages to have his character remain 2-D flat as his intonations enthuse; Gellar &#150; severely miscast as the daffy sexpot (whose cartoon counterpoint is way more voluptuous); Lillard nailing Casey Kasem's vocalizations and gangly gait as the eternally hungry and scared stoner; Cardellini evoking the brainy myopic sleuth these last two actors give my rating its 1/2 and Innes' audio is 100 percent more on target than the poorly conceived CGI doggie) being invited to amusement getaway Spooky Island by its host Atkinson (in dire need of a new agent) to investigate the weird goings on.  There is little joy nor is there any intelligence bubbling under the gaudy and surprisingly vulgar (i.e. do we need to see two of the 5 involved in a gas-emitting contest???) concoction congealing here.  Jinkies!!! (Dir Raja Gosnell) "},{"Title":"Scooby DON'T, please!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am a fan of the original Scooby Doo program. I've seen them all. I've been picking up the old episodes on DVD as they have become available. I now have children of my own and, thanks to Cartoon Network, they are also very big Scooby fans. I took the children to the movie to celebrate Father's Day with me. I found myself aching to leave the theater not long after the film began. I was very hopeful with the opening sequence as it so closely resembled the formula of the original cartoon. Set a trap, it gets goofed up, accidentally capture the ghost, discover that the ghost is an unlikely person from earlier in the case, explain how the whole scheme worked etc... What follows in my review may be considered spoiler material but, I don't really think so, just seeing the film spoiled my day This movie is a terrible bastardization of what was a tried and true formula. In the old cartoon, an endearing quality was that there were no real monsters, aliens or ghosts. We always found out in the end that it was a person or persons just trying to scare people away for one reason or another. This movie is flawed. The monsters are real, souls get stolen, there's dealing with the occult. This is not Scooby Doo. Even some of the recently made SD cartoon movies venture way off of the formula. The ghost are NOT SUPPOSED TO BE REAL. That's what made it so fun. Old Looney Tunes cartoons always had adult jokes in them. What I mean is that there were jokes that kids might miss but the adults could enjoy. But adult didn't mean dirty. It simply meant that the jokes could be understood or caught by adults only. I was outraged by the amount of pot/marijuana humor in this movie. Not to mention the use of terms like bi-atch (bitch) and bootie that have no place in ANY children's film. The ONLY and I mean ONLY saving grace in the film is Matthew Lillard's performance as Shaggy. But, you can get enough of that in the trailer. I buy DVDs for my children to watch. Sometimes I edit out things that aren't appropriate. I will not buy this film as I'd only allow them to see the opening sequence...stopping right before we see smoke bellowing out of the top of the Mystery Machine while Pass the Dutchie plays in the background. "},{"Title":"Not Much Like the TV Show","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Though this movie did have it's highlights, it was nothing like the tv show. Shaggy and Scooby were like the only characters that remained the same. They totally changed the characters of Daphne, Velma, Fred and Scrappy Doo. However, it did have it's comedical points that made it funny for all ages. But, they changed a classic and brought a new Doo. "},{"Title":"Boy did they make Fred into a dummy","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A bit PCish, and that kind of destorts the show from when I was Kid.  Despite that the character were close to cartoon,  except fred. A good movie for the kids, and entertaining in general.  Watchable, and interesting, but I feel a little bad for whay they did to Scrapy Doo.  This film kind of tarnish a few childhood memories, but still a good film. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Got The Doo?","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  You go Scooby!  Forget the critics!  It's fun and funny...lighten up, it's for kids.  We all know it's not Oscar material...guilty pleasures all the way!  I for one can not wat to see the sequels. A good opening weekend, the major population can't be all wrong.  "},{"Title":"Side busting fun for all ages(no real spoiler)","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film was a pleasant surprise. both well acted and animate this film had four of my friends in tears most of the time. Scooby Doo 2002 answers what was going on with these characters, not to mention a little closure on the whole scrappy doo thing ) If you have a good  sense of humor and a young heart go see this film. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies of the year!","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Before anything else, I should say that I am quite possibly the biggest Scooby-Doo fan who ever lived. Scooby-Doo in my opinion, is and always will be the best cartoon of all time. Now that I've gotten that out of the way, it's time to say what I thought of the movie. This is a difficult thing since there are no words nor phrases that can possibly describe how awful this movie really is. Calling it garbage just isn't enough. Most of the cast is horribly miscast, the jokes are anything but funny, the script is as flat as can be, and the music is torture for the ears. This is a movie that should have never been released to theaters. It should have gone direct-to-video. However, it should be said that Sarah Michelle Gellar was beautiful, though not beautiful enough to save this junk. "},{"Title":"Just pathetic","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  ** MIGHT BE SPOILERS AHEAD **This movie is stupid.  I wish Mike and the bots from MST3K would've sat next to me to make the movie more interesting.  From the way it looked, this movie DOES NOT deserve the PG rating.  It's way more PG-13.  Too much cleavage, adult themes, and toilet humor for the kiddies, not to mention some really scary stuff that might frighten the younger set.  The movie does a great disservice to the cartoon we all know and love.  I'd rather watch the cartoons anyday than this asinine tripe they call a children's film.The only good thing out of this movie was the computer generated Scooby Doo and Matthew Lillard's character of Shaggy.  And I think the title should've been Scooby-Doo  Scrappy's Revenge.  I walked out during the last 20 minutes of the movie and demanded my money back but all I got was a lousy movie pass good for one movie.  I can't believe I wasted a good, $6 and 90 minutes of my life.Avoid this movie at all costs unless you like pain. "}{"Title":"Zoinks, This Was a Lot of Fun!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I went into this with modest expectations, since the whole trend of recycling old television shows into movies got old a while ago, but this turned out to be a fun movie.  Anyone who saw the original Scooby episodes will appreciate some of the inside humor and faithful reproduction of characters and themes.  Matthew Lillard's performance as Shaggy was actually pretty amazing, and Linda Cardellni as Velma was also really impressive.  I was actually watching it thinking Yeah, that's Shaggy, yeah, that's Velma.  No small feat considering we're talking about cartoon characters.  Freddie Prince Jr. as Freddie and Sarah Michelle Gellar as Daphne didn't reach those heights but were still good.And there was actually a bit of a theme here, about the importance of friendship, that made the film a little bit more than just an exercise in nostalgia or an excuse for a studio to make a quick buck off an old TV show.  But this is mostly just a fun movie, and although some of the humor may fall into the low brow category, it's still funny.I won't reveal any spoilers since as of this writing the movie just came out, but the ending is wonderfully appropriate for anyone who has some knowledge of the Scooby Doo series.  In fact, having at least a passing acquaintance with Scooby's history is helpful in appreciating this film. Not necessary, but helpful.   "},{"Title":"Annoying, noisy, wrongly paced movie.","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This truly was an annoying, unfunny movie to watch. OK I admit I never have been a big fan of the 'Scooby-Doo' cartoons but I at least expected this movie to be entertaining.In the beginning the movie perfectly made fun of all the early old 'Scooby-Doo' cartoons. Every episode was always the same and every character always basically did the same in every episode and the beginning of the movie perfectly makes fun of this. As the movie progresses the movie becomes more and more unoriginal and unfunny and gets a totally wrong way too fast pace.The pace is really the thing I had the most problem with during the movie. It was way too fast and the viewer isn't getting a moment rest. On top of that there isn't really anything good or funny happening on screen. The story is way too weak and simple and the use of music songs in the movie is annoying and makes this movie an annoying, busy, noisy mess.The Scooby-Doo character in my opinion doesn't have enough screen time to regard him as the main character. On top of that he isn't very impressive looking. CGI-characters were even in 2002 at a point of looking realistic but Scooby-Doo is way too fake looking along with all the CGI-monsters in the movie.Sarah Michelle Gellar really is an annoying, weak actress. She really acts like an amateur in this movie. Matthew Lillard is a way better actor and he seemed like the only actor in the movie that could interact correctly and believable with the Scooby-Doo character. Also Rowan Atkinson is of course a talented comical actor and Linda Cardellini is perfectly cast as dorky Velma.An annoying, noisy, wrongly paced movie. Still kids will perhaps still find some joy in this movie.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some have said","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I've just finished watching Scooby-Doo and it was a lot better than I expected. I can even see myself watching it again. The character of Shaggy was excellent; I couldn't believe how well Matthew Lillard perfected Shaggy's voice. Perhaps the weakest character was Fred, but even he wasn't really that bad. Daphne reminded me a lot of Buffy in certain parts (I wonder why?). Velma was just like she was in the cartoon smart and always with a plan. Most of my favourite scenes involved Shaggy and Scooby-Doo; Lillard and the CGI Scooby worked extremely well together. *SPOILER AHEAD* But my favourite scene was when all the characters switched bodies, that was a classic. *END SPOILER* So to everybody who's unsure as to whether to watch this movie or not because they've heard bad reviews or whatnot, trust me, just watch it, most of you will probably end up liking it.  "},{"Title":"I actually liked it.","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Scooby-Doo was far, far better than the critics said it was.Matthew Lillard. ZOINKS! Like, only Casey Kasem could play Shaggy better, man! The voice, the look, the delivery, the motions, they were all perfect!Scooby was masterfully generated via CGI and superbly voiced by Neil Fanning. Good job.Linda Cardellini did an excellent job as Velma, capturing the look & the voice exquisitely, and doing a pretty good job on her delivery too. Plus, she's hot. What more could you ask for?Rowan Atkinson needed much more screen time than he got.  There's no denying the man is funny, so why can't he get more funny lines in a comedy?Sarah Michelle Gellar looked like Daphne alright. But this was a different Daphne, a tougher Daphne, a...Buff-er Daphne, if you get my drift. Actually, the new Daphne was pretty cool. Helpless damsels irritate me.Freddie Prinze Jr. was the worst actor in the film. While he looked like Fred, he didn't put across the character too well. Not the original cartoon Fred, and not the egomaniac Fred. Too bad, 'cause ego-Fred actually would've been pretty entertaining if he'd been acted properly.(spoilers from here on out) The writing is superb. First of all, Scrappy-Doo is one of THE most hated characters ever, so it's poetic justice that he be the villan here. Next, the...um...references in many Shaggy scenes were hilarious! Simply hilarious! The plot was just as strong as any of the old cheesy Scooby plots, so I don't know why people have a problem with that.All in all, good movie. Would be better with a different Fred, but still good. And remember, Like, we don't go anywhere with the words creepy, scary, or spooky in the name, man!......or hydroponic, but that's, like, for a totally different reason, man! "},{"Title":"Arguably the best Summer movie of 2002! Theatrecal and video comments below!","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I was originally going to see The Bourne Idenity but it was sold out at MY local Wehrenberg theater that is a huge building, a deluxe facility if you will that has a bowling alley, a large arcade, a huge screen for special events such as Baseball, and other sports, and not to mention 20 giant screens that all has stadium seating and a lot more! Enough of this, anyway Scooby Doo was awesome! The cast was perfect and they just didn't look like the classic cartoon characters but they acted and sounded exactly like them! The contest between Scooby and Shaggy was one of the most well executed and funniest scenes I have seen in a movie quite along time. When this great scene came the whole theater was laughing and they couldn't stop and neither could I! This along with Star Wars Episode II Attack of the Clones and Spider Man is the films to see this summer and I can't wait for the sequel to come out and I hope that this will become a franchise because its that good! I just bought Scooby Doo The Movie on VHS and its a blast! Its just as good on video than in the theater! It has special features at the end which is a music video and deleted scenes and I just love the one featuring Velma singing! I really loved that one and I won't spoil the rest of the bonus scenes! I just love Scooby Doo and all of the actors did a wonderful job!I recommend all Scooby Doo fans to buy this film now! "},{"Title":"My choice for the Golden Turkey for worst film of the year.","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Since there are so many things wrong with film, it is better if I start with the ONE good bit Linda Cardellini was cast as Velma. THIS was the only good casting in the whole film. She obviously watched the original cartoons. Hers was the only performance worth the price of a matinee ticket (if you pay full price for one, then you need to have your head examined). God knows, nobody else did. The WORST bit of casting has to go to Sarah Michelle Buffy Gellar. Are there no natural red-heads in Hollywood that they gave a bad dye-job to a bottle-blonde with only minimal talent? Just off the top of my head, I could recommend Elisa Donovan. Another bad idea making Daphne into a Valley Ninja. Do I have to point out how idiotic THIS is? Matthew Lillard does a fair/good turn as Shaggy. Freddie Prinze, jr. however, is NO Fred, even with the other bad dye-job.I agree with Leah Rosen of People magazine that only the VERY young (under 6) will find anything remotely funny about this yutz. This is one time where the mixing of CGI and live-action failed miserably. Putting it like this The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle was far better. This is hands-down, one of the worst films I have ever seen. I feel sorry for Linda Cardellini, she deserved a better film to break-out in. She is WAY too talented for this pile of trash. She strikes me as the only actress who make Velma look HOT in that get-up (she has great legs). "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Of all the adaptations from television shows and video games lately 'Scooby-Doo' must be one of the least interesting. It has characters you will not feel anything for, a story that is as stupid as it can be, no real jokes and some bad visual effects, although Scooby himself looks good enough. I am not very familiar with the animated series but if it looks like this movie I would not like the series either.Some better things in this mess I would like to mention though. The dog (voice by Scott Innes) and Shaggy (Matthew Lillard) gave me some smiles, the boss of the spooky theme park where the movie is set is played by Rowan Atkinson who gave me some smiles as well, and the movie is very colorful which, I think, is a good thing. Still, the story that even goes to taking over the world, other characters like Fred (Freddie Prinze Jr.), Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Velma (Linda Cardellini) and Mary Jane (Isla Fisher), the sometimes terrible visuals and the complete lack of nice jokes make this a movie to forget as quickly as possible. "},{"Title":"Makes Spider-man look good, and that's not a compliment!","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I can't believe I actually saw this movie! Ugh! It's horrible! The special effects were okay, but besides that, ugh! It's stupid, it's disgusting, it's corny! Ugh! The only good part in the movie was the credits. I hated this movie! I absolutely hated this movie!!!!!!!! In my opinion, the only good acting ability, was Sarah Michelle Geller (i think that's how you spell it) as Daphne. Never seen Buffy, never seen The Grudge. But seriously, she's the only good acting person in this movie. That voice for Scooby was SO fake! I can't believe they had Scrappy as the bad guy! They ruined and insulted such a great cartoon series with such a crappy, vulgar movie! Do yourself a favor, don't waste your time watching this movie, and instead, waste your 20 on some ice cream or something! It's not worth it! Ugh!!!!!!!! I feel like I'm gonna throw up! "},{"Title":"This is NOT Scooby Doo -- Spoiler","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie totally sucked. In all the Scooby Doo(SD) cartoons there was a theme their were no real monsters. At the end of each episode the cast showed that the monsters were illusions made with mirrors and some other stuff created by the 'old caretaker' or 'shopkeeper'. Followed by the famous line 'And I would have gotten away with if it weren't for those meddling kids.' I watched this movie waiting to see how they would they would tie all the stuff up at the end. Then the main characters start swapping bodies and crazy stuff. Finally the villain turned out to be Scrappy Doo. The real Scooby Doo did NOT have Scrappy Doo.I could deal with a cameo of Scrappy. And the changes in characters to make them more politically correct are OK(I never thought of SD as chauvinistic) but to throw in real magic and the other crap is too much.  "},{"Title":"Disliked the Cartoon, Hated this","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Sometimes comic books and cartoons should not be made into feature length films. I don't care if Jesus wanted to play Shaggy, you just don't do it.A waste of film, a waste of time. And now.. there's a sequel in the works. WHY?Reminds me of President Bush one and President Bush two. Disasters.  "}{"Title":"Just a few things","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS!I used to watch the cartoons when I was little,but when I stopped watching them I sort of forgot everything about them(apart from Scooby and the theme tune) I then saw the film when it came out on video.Then I watched some more of the cartoons.Now I think I can see why some fans hate it. SPOILERS The characters are ruder and violent,Scrappy is the villan and the monsters on Spooky Island are real. END OF SPOILERS I think that it should appeal to Scooby Doo fans if they can look over the things listed above.Some bits are pretty stupid but come on aren`t the cartoons? In any case the characters natures are well emphasised apart from the things listed above,and the part at the begining and when the gang investigate Spooky Island are just like in the cartoons(again apart from the things listed above) The cast look just like the gang in the cartoons and Velma and Shaggy sound like the characters they are playing,so do Scooby and Scrappy. It is rather funny even for people who are not familiar with the cartoons.For me the toilet humor just falls through. To round my review of,if you are fans of the cartoons and are not put off by what I have written,watch this film.I can`t say it is my favourite film but neither can I say it is unwatchable. "},{"Title":"Scooby-Why? (Will Contain Spoilers)","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  ****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorI've always been a big fan of the Scooby-Doo cartoon series so when it was announced that he would make the leap to the big screen I was excited. However, once I saw the finished product I left the theaters with a tear in my eyes.Director Raja Gosnell destroyed a very simple concept. I enjoyed the fact that they made reference to all the different series but they should have stuck with the main concept making adults and children laugh at the same time for two different reasons.The film rarely had any hidden jokes. The humor that was available was very lame and the plot itself had potential but the lack of humor and faithfulness to the television series was not there.Freddie Prince, Jr. and Sarah Michelle Gellar were horribly miscast while Matthew Lillard and the beautiful Linda Cardellini did a wonderful performance as Shaggy and Velma. Too bad the film wasn't as good as there performance.The only good decision made for this film was making Scrappy the villian. And having him urinate on Sarah Michelle Gellar. In addition I have to agree that they atleast managed to entertain the children. Which is a good thing so soon after 9/11.RATING 1 STAR "},{"Title":"I had fun with this. It's okay for what it is...","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  There was talk of a few more PG-13 raunchier jokes-i.e. Velma is a lesbian, Shaggy is a Stoner, Fred is Gay, etc-but those frankly are outta place in a semi-straight forward treatment of a Scooby flick. They would belong instead in any of the interminable 'Scary Movie/Naked Gun' type spoofs put out every year.Spoiler below am sure!I enjoyed the movie for what it was-Velma, Shaggy dead-on, the much maligned Fred and Buffy castings, well while not ideal, aren't horrible. They at least looked to be having fun with the movie and as such we hear in the audience do too.Plot-unplotted plot rather-is kinda junky in places, with the Baddies stolen right from 'Gremlins'. The whole 'aliens taking over via switching bodies w/ teenagers'-well, it doesn't work that well-put it mildly. I also was disappointed that Mr Bean wasn't given much to do-Atkinson is a dynamic, funny presence on screen if given the chance. That was a mistake too.But I can't fault this too much-they do try, it is funny in places, it's not trying to be anything beyond a filmed version of the cartoon. Period. Lillard was terrific. I also think that Scooby was a fine CGI f/X, not quite Gollum in level but at least as good's the 'Wargs' from the Two Towers.Scrappy got his too which was highly deserved.They're making two more of these? They should. Good kids' stuff, nothing more.**1/2 outta ****. Zoinks. "},{"Title":"Jinkies, it's woeful.","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILER**Please note the below is all from an adult's (MY) point of view.I have very little constructive to say about this film, so I'll say very little. Plot; standard scoob fair. Acting; standard Hollywood family film tosh. Waste of a licence; Almost definately!Two acceptions to the rule Liallards acting, what a great shaggy voice. Scrappy doo's first appearence, How many of us over the age of 16, actually like him, Huh? exactly!!Very disapponted. Please WB, work harder on making next years follow-up accessable to all. "},{"Title":"Our Scooby Doo girls have discovered wonder bra's.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  (spoilers??)Well certainly it's got PG all over it.  But I find it ironic that parents found the deleted scene of the bathing suit scene offensive.  Yet didn't find much wrong with big boobed (wonder bra's) actors through out the movie. Very odd indeed.   (hell, they even put good ol Pam Anderson in there. The ultimate adult star.  Star?  Did I say that?  Blond bimbo?  Uh......  who did I just offend??  )The movie is just.... horrible.  The cartoon was certainly fun.  But hey, it's a cartoon.  Lots of latitude.  But a live action.  This movie should have never been made.  The only one that remains true to the original is Scooby-doo.  Scrabby's been made to be this ultimate bad guy. Araghhhh.......  Nimrod's.At 86 minutes long, any gripping by the director that any of the deleted scene's woulda made the movie too long would be an understatement.  Hell, most of the deleted scene's shoulda been added.  The original beginning was alot better than the crap they came up with.  How this movie got so popular this year is beyond me.  Even Scooby Doo fanatics should be offended.The airplane scene was poorly thought out.  Given our Sept 11 airport screening, just who were they spoofing??In the end, certainly the only thing the movie has going for it is Scooby Doo, cute girls and 86 minutes of crap. O_O   Well not all crap.  But hey who's counting.PS I kept thinking throughout the movie.  God forbid they make a sequel. Shoot, they've got Scooby Doo 2 lined up for 2004.  What a waste of a budget.4/10Quality 3/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable 3/10 "},{"Title":"WARNING - SPOILERS","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  DO NOT READ UNLESS YOU HAVE SEEN THE MOVIE! Ok I am probably one of the biggest Scooby fan for my age that I know (Besides my 5 year old cousin). The movie was wonderful! Exactly like the old cartoons.  Everyone played the part of their characters just as you would imagine. The only part I didn't like was how it was Scrappy who was trying to take over the world. Even though he was a bit annoying, you had to love him. That was the part that got me, but being a total Scooby fan, I give it a 10 out of 10! The real Scooby fan, Hermione "},{"Title":"Best family comedy of the year.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have been of fan of Scooby ever since I first saw an episode. And when this movie came out, I just had to see it. I love Scooby and I have probably seen just about every episode that there is. The beginning of the film starts off corny and you actually wonder if the writers had forgotten that they were writing an adaption of a cartoon rather than just writing another cartoon movie like the earlier SCOOBY-DOO ON ZOMBIE ISLAND. But after the first five minutes, things start going. The cast is perfect. No one else could portray the Scooby gang better. The cast includes Freddie Prinze Jr., Sarah Michelle Gellar, Matthew Lillard, Linda Cardinelli, Rowan Atkinson and Scott Innes as the voice of Scooby-Doo. This is by far, the best comedy that I have seen this year. If you are a fan of Scooby, then you cannot afford to miss out on this one. My only complaint is that the monsters looked a little phony. But they were probably done that way as to not frighten the younger members of the audience. WARNING there will be much stupid children laughter at scenes that are not funny!!! But, there is some adult humor thrown in every now and then. This is one damn funny movie.And to the reviewer that said she hated the movie so badly that she walked out and that the only reason she went was to see the new Harry Potter trailer, I give you credit for admitting how stupid you are for liking Harry Potter. Those of us who loved this movie (there are hundreds) are really intimidated, especially since Harry Potter will crash and burn at the box-office. SCOOBY-DOO 5/5. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is a complete disaster.Unnatural/bad acting (especially Shaggy), terrible CGI graphics integration. Original cartoon is dumb by default every episode - all the same situation, but different decorations/monsters, but the movie ... I wonder how there are people who actually love the cartoon and especially - this movie.Unbelievable, that such good actress as Sarah Michelle Gellar doing in this flick. Even she is acting dumb, but I suppose, it's because of all other professionals in this movie. And this movie is even SCI-FI! Dooh! "},{"Title":"Just like the cartoon","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  First...my qualifications  I have been watching Scooby now for over 20 years.  I am afraid I'm not quite old enough to have been around when it first debuted.  My friends say I am a fanatic and I keep enough Scooby paraphenalia around my desk that people say it's closer to a shrine.The reason why it's important to remember all of this is because I write this review more than a little biased.  However, I can say in all honesty that I LOVED the movie.  I thought everyone involved did a pretty good job at keeping it true to its roots, and that's what I liked the most. Personally, I think that producing a Scooby-Doo movie puts someone at odds between making a movie that mimics a Scooby cartoon, or making a movie that will appeal to a wide audience.  The two are just not the same.If you look at what most people feel is 'classic' Scooby-Doo, you get cartoons are that corny, low-production, and have a very thin plot.  They are for the most part, mindless romps into a world of men in masks, and teenagers with their talking dog, gallivanting across the world solving the same old mysteries.  The locales and names may change, but it's pretty much the same old story.  What we love about them, and why a 28 year old man still stops flipping channels when I find Scooby, is that simply put, we love that dog and his fellow cohorts.  We like watching Scoob and Shag munch down an entire pizza in two seconds, or seeing Scooby steal the soda from the rest of the gang.  And most importantly, we love Scooby for all the corniness, lame jokes and disguises.  This is a dog everyone would love to own, just don't put your sandwich down in front of him.That really doesn't translate to a Hollywood blockbuster.  My most important consideration for the Scooby-Doo movie was whether or not they would keep that good, clean, wholesome image, and in all honesty, they do.  There are a few adult jokes, but this is a family movie and if you put too much into adult themes, complex story lines, and character development, you would definitely disappoint the real Scooby fans, who will continue to watch the movies and cartoons long after this movie has had its run.If I take out my bias of Scooby, I must admit that I don't think this movie would stand on its own.  It's a fun eighty-seven minute flick, but it's kind of shallow and there are too many inside jokes to truly enjoy it.  The bottom line is, if you like classic Scooby-Doo, you'll probably love the film, however if you didn't like the Scooby-Doo cartoon, you won't like the movie.  It still gets a 10 in my book, but it's a 10 based on my interpretation of Scooby, without him, it's only about a 5. "},{"Title":"An Average Movie Unless Your About 10 Years Of Age","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  first off the ONLY good part of the movie is always running about in purple outfits yes i`m talking about the lovely Miss Sarah Michelle Gellar the only reason to watch this kiddies movie.there is one part of the film that sticks in my head and thats where (F P Jr - Fred) is standing on a table telling everyone that there is no such thing as ghosts or gouls or monsters then the next thing that happens is a monster crashes through a window next to him and he shouts ``MONSTER!!!!!!!`` and runs away.the acting in this movie is as cheesy as hell there is only 2 movies i know of that has acting that is worse they are (driller killer) & (hercules in new york) both are complete cack this is slightly better but not by much a word of warning dont watch those two titles i`ve mentioned please the are really realy bad Arnold Schwarzenegger should be ashamed of himself for the hercules movie.Good Points Sarah Michelle Gellar.  Bad Points the rest of the movie i suppose but what do you expect from a kiddies movie i`ve seen better kiddies movies than this like ``Max Beedles Big Move`` that was a good Disney comedy for all the family.rating for this movie 5/10. "}{"Title":"Passable but could have been much more (spoilers)","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Two years after the gang break up acrimoniously, they are separately invited to a mysterious island-come-theme park which may be haunted.  Although not quite working together, the gang start to look into the mystery - but is it the normal `man in a mask' or is it actually an island of ghosts and monsters?Not having any children of my own I wasn't in the mood to go to a cinema to see this so I decided to give it a go when it came on the bale channel when I was in the gym.  As such I'm sure I was a little forgiving of it as it provided distraction from my running, but I am still of the mind that this could have been a lot better than it was.  It had potential, Scooby Doo is world famous (as Eddie Izzard pointed out) and the humans are ripe for tongue in cheek portrayal.To a degree the film does make fun of the characters - Shaggy and Scooby have a minor drug reference, Thelma is sexually repressed, Daphne is trying to shake of her damsel in distress vibe while Fred is trying to be less vain and chiselled!  However at some point the decision is made to not take full advantage of these and after a while they are put to one side and the loss of comic potential is felt.  The film really only recaptures this feeling of self-mocking at the end when it acknowledges that EVERYONE hates Scrappy Doo and casts him as the bad guy!  To me that was the funniest bit of the film.The rest of the comedy is pretty much for kids, which is strange because I imagined that the beasts and ghosts might be a little too scary for children under 10.  It has energy but, considering the potential, there is far too little material that adults will find consistently enjoyable.  I did find this very strange as I imagined that many people who came to watch this film will be original fans who were maybe using their kids as an excuse to go and see the film.The cast is full of people who I either hate or have no particular love for, yet they all manage to do a reasonably good job.  Although it hurts to say it because I hate him so, Lillard is the perfect Shaggy and does a sterling job.  Likewise Prince Jr, who I could less about, is enjoyable as Fred. Gellar is so-so as Daphne but you can see the makers are trying to turn her into a Buffy type character and her silly fight scene is an attempt to please her Buffy fans.  Cardellini is OK as Thelma but doesn't make that much of an impression.  The computerised Scooby is actually quite good but is stretched by the dialogue he is given to say when really he should have been given a lot more physical comedy to handle.Overall this film had a lot more potential to please the adult section of the audience just as much as it served the young kids.  Sadly it pretty much failed to do that despite a promising start and a clever ending that recognises the poor bit of the cartoon (Scrappy).  I doubt I'll bother with the sequel till it reaches TV but I do hope that they spend a lot more time bringing the modern irony out of it and less time on the kid pleasing farting contests. "}]