[{"Title":"Kids Movie? I Object!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  So it's by Nickelodeon. So,It's animated. So, I'm 25 with a 3 year old. I love this movie! Maybe I'm one of the few lucky people to be born with a healthy sense of humor, but when my son and I can sit down together and laught at the same parts of the movie, it's definitley worth it's wieght in gold. Don't you people remember being kids? What would you do if you found out there were no parents anywhere around? Yep-the same thing they did, party until you're constipated.THEN wonder where your parents are. Kids like burp and fart jokes because they're kids. How many times can you recall in your childhood when a well-timed burp would disrupt a class for the remainder of the day? And just to add my son't two cents the part where Poultra is conked on the head by the getaway ship and is going to fall on the audience... my son finds nothing funnier than the thought of a chicken with butt cheeks. Why don't you people see the movie for the entertainment that it is and not pick it apart like some Oscar Nominations Panel?  I have two words for you people... UN PUCKER.  "},{"Title":"This Depends On Your Audience","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" There are lots of funny lines in this animated movie and some funny characters, at least for adults. I laughed and thought it was great but when I played it for the second time, with a couple of little kids in the audience I was disappointed that most of the humor went over their heads. All of a sudden, the film wasn't as great as I had remembered (and told them it was). So.....what you think of this film, I guess might depend on your age, for one thing.There's a nice message here for the kids, though you can't do without your parents. Speaking of kids, the nerdy-looking fat kid obviously was the funniest in here. Everyone in the audience likes him.One bit of warning to the older folks keep the audio remote handy. This gets very loud in spots and needs to be turned down here and there. "},{"Title":"Not the piece of Nick crap the previews made it out to be.","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw the trailers for Jimmy Neutron and was not at all impressed. The premise sounded way too kiddy and the fact that it was going to be a TV show made the whole thing scream, Marketing! Thankfully I just caught it on video and was wonderfully surprised. The animation is very good and nicely detailed, the humor is simple and G-rated for kids, which will please adults, and the story is fast-paced and creative. I liked all of the characters, from the whipped-cream hair sporting Jimmy to his nerdy friends and the evil booger aliens. There were some genuinely cool touches too, like the fight between a tiny teacher and the deadly apple worm or the detailed alien chicken. My only real complaint is the fact that the soundtrack is packed to the brim with dumb pop songs that pop up at the weirdest times and basically interrupt the flow of the whole movie. Also, any movie with Aaron Carter singing in it quickly gets a few points demoted from it.  You can stick around after the video's credits for some music videos, one with the C arter kid and another with some girls singing We're the Kids In America. They are not spectacular extras, which makes me yearn for a DVD player even more, now. All in all, though, Jimmy is a pleasant, short flick that won't keep adults in a coma and will definitely get the kids quiet for an hour. It may not be up there with the Pixar films or Shrek, but it is decent nonetheless. 3/4 stars. "},{"Title":"Some people are a bit harsh on this film","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There's not too much that can really be said about Jimmy Neutron as far as films go. A previous reviewer described it as something to watch on a rainy Sunday afternoon and that sounds like an adequate description. There are a few reviews on this website of the film though which feel a bit harsh. Ultimately, theres no denying that Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius is a kids film, that's what it was meant to be, that's what it is. That's not a bad thing though. Whilst it may not have the adult humour of other animations (mainly the greatest animation of them all, Shrek), it does still have the occasional funny joke that will make people of all ages laugh. Whilst the plot is a bit wafer thin and the animation a bit simplistic at times, I'd like to see most of the reviewers on this website try and do better. Ultimately, I can understand that to some people, this film may not be their cup of tea, and for a long time I avoided trying to watch it. Once you sit down and give it the time of day though, you'll be pleasantly surprised. Not the best animation of the last few years, but definately worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Very fun","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Computer-animated cartoon about Jimmy who, inadvertently, has all the parents in his neighborhood kidnapped by aliens.  It's up to Jimmy and his classmates to follow the aliens through outer space to save their parents.Silly but lots of fun.  There's some incredible computer animation, hysterically funny lines (for kids and adults) and a VERY quick pace that make up for a few dull moments and a really silly script.A perfect family movie.  Adults--turn off your brain and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Go counterparts Go!","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The film and movie soundtrack are excellent. This is the best nickelodeon film I have ever seen and this is better than the series that was built on its foundation. Wait a tick, Isn't Steve Oddekerk the guy who played the chosen one in the hilarious Kung Pow enter the fist. The 3-d animation is great and this is hilarious thanks to the fantastic scriptwriters and actors who provided the voices. If There was an award for best nick movie my vote would go to Jimmy Neutron for a great project in filmaking. Go rent or buy the movie if you haven't seen it yet and if you like the film, get the soundtrack as well. Jimmy Neutron Rocks! "},{"Title":"To Infinity and Beyond.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  An elementary school student has to save his parents from evil space aliens with the help of his classmates (who all had their parents kidnapped as well) in this fun and overall enjoyable animated feature from the Nickelodeon Studios. Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius was a surprise Best Animated Feature nominee in 2001 (the category's first year). It seemed to be the oddball production in a group which included Shrek and Monsters, Inc. (there were only three films nominated in that category that year). Overall though Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius is on par with Shrek (one of the more over-rated films of the past few years) and stands tall with the superior Monsters, Inc.. Admittedly the movie is excellent for children, but only fair for hardened adults. It lacks the charm for wide audiences that most other animated features have these days. Still, Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius serves its purpose to the paramount and continues to be a money-maker for Nickelodeon (there is a regular series airing now on that network). First-rate animation (that has that striking aquarium-style appeal to it) and good voice characterizations (Martin Short and Patrick Stewart in particular as the comical aliens) make the movie one of the better films of 2001. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Smart Family Film!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am sure glad that I have gone to see one of the most witty family films in `Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius'.  The film does not have an ingenious plot Jimmy and his friends must save their family who have been abducted by aliens. But boy o boy!  It sure does have a very witty screenplay and one-liners that were sure the bomb! It will be very dumb for you not take your family to see `Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius'. **** Good  "},{"Title":"Jimmy Neutron strikes a chord with this ingenious picture","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'll admit it-when this arrived in theaters four years ago, I wasn't interested. I was thirteen, too old and mature for kiddie pictures. I had seen what Nick had done with their movies in the past and couldn't believe some smart kid picture with the usual fare of gross jokes could be remotely entertaining. I also refused to watch the T.V. series. That it, until I caught an episode one afternoon and realized what an entertainment gem I was missing. The plot of JN is fairly simple- Jimmy is a ten year old genius who wants nothing more than to hang out with his friends and fix the wiring on his shrink ray. However, his inventions cause chaos and his parents want him around for a few more years-restricting him from going out late. Easy enough, but we learn that earlier Jimmy made alien contact, and now the aliens have abducted all of the Earth's parents. Sure, it's a party for a day or so, but soon its up to Jimmy, Carl, Cindy, Sheen, and Libby to save the day.To risk sounding like a clichéd robot, the genius of the film is in the unique characters. Carl, Jimmy's best friend is a llama-loving dunce while Sheen is Ultra-Lord obsessed-an EXCELLENT parody on the fan boy generation. Of course, the best character interaction is between Jimmy and his nemesis Cindy-the second smartest kid in school. Cindy's a tough girl who's hard on him simply for being what he is-a geeky smart guy who's got a slight reputation for knowing it all. Yet, when Jimmy's self-esteem fails, he'll only believe Cindy to tell him what a great guy he really is.I'm sure you've noticed the recent trend in cartoons for adults over the years. Jimmy is no exception, tossing in the mandatory kiddie fare with some sharp references and unique character play. Movie fans may hold Shrek as their holy grail of animated comedy, but in my opinion, Jimmy Neutron can more than stand up to the jolly green giant. In conclusion, don't miss Jimmy Neutron simply because its a Nickelodeon kid's movie. This film is smart and funny with more than enough intelligence for everyone. "},{"Title":"I know son, but if all your friends were named Cliff, would you jump off them?","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius isn't the best movie I have ever seen, in fact, it is very rare that I deem any film with those words, but it was worth an hour and a half of my time. What stood out immediately was the animation, the coloring, the bold attention to detail, and the fact that none of it was lost on the DVD. Occasionally, you find yourself watching an animated film wondering how many drinks the animators may have had while attempting to create artwork, which suddenly becomes even more visible in the comfort of your own home. There has been, in my time reviewing these films, one film that has been animated flawlessly. That was The Incredibles, and while Neutron is not that film, the two do stand very well together. Aside from the standing ovation animation, the rest of the film is actual a fun watch. Going into this film with no knowledge of the character Jimmy Neutron or his history, I found myself eager to enjoy more of his adventures and further deeper into his world.One of the enjoyable elements of this film has to be the pacing. While some will argue that you cannot judge a film by the mere merit of time, for Jimmy Neutron you can. I didn't want to get bogged down, I didn't want to loose my attention span, and thankfully &#150; with the skilled penmanship of one Steve Oedekerk &#150; I learned to sit back and thoroughly enjoy what Jimmy had to offer. I wasn't distracted by small, insignificant plot alleys or forgettable characters; with Neutron what you see is what you get. For approximately 82 minutes we are packed with one exciting element after another without getting sidetracked. From the opening pull sequence to the center amusement park transformation, all the way to the final climactic scene which incorporated all the themes and elements from earlier in the film, Neutron honestly didn't let you down. The humor was crisp, the characters were actually enjoyable to watch, and unlike other films of this genre, you knew what was going to happen, but you weren't quite sure how. I think that is what kept my attention the longest, with the brain power of Neutron; I was never quite sure what he was going to combine next. The opportunities were endless, and I enjoyed seeing them unfold right before me. Laugh all you want, but Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius was an enjoyable experience.Why is it that women can do pre-pubescent boy voices better than anyone else? I loved the voices in this film mainly because it didn't focus on trying to give you the who is that voice quiz game, but rather employ unknowns and allow the film to do the talking. While I have to give the entire cast excellent marks on their work with this film, it was Patrick Stewart and (I can't believe I am saying this&#133;) Martin Short's comical combination that did it for me. They aren't big stars, so I didn't hear the voice and immediately see the actor, I saw the Martian counterparts that they were trying to portray! Coupled with the fact that they looked hysterical (humorous physical depictions of alien life), I found myself laughing at this pair more than I imagined. Stewart controlled his voice and delivered (with ease) some of the best one-liners of this film, while Short added the final punch needed to make the kiddies in the audience laugh. For me, the two worked brilliantly together and could honestly carry a show of their own together. Short wasn't over the top, and the two created a strong balance which coupled well with the seriousness of Neutron's quest.Alas, I cannot give it the full five stars, mainly because of an issue of redundancy. Perhaps that isn't the right word, but what I am trying to say is that this is a show that prides itself on the genius of the main character, Jimmy. What makes this show work is that he is by far the smartest child on the Earth, yet his parents keep him grounded (which creates likability for the viewers) by making him do chores, get in trouble, and create boundaries. Yet, for all the inventions that Jimmy creates, for all the tests that he passes in school, he seems to forget that there is no air in space and therefore the entire plausibility of all the children in his town flying to this obscure planet is debunked. I realize that this is a cartoon, a-hem, an animated feature and that I should just accept the fact that in this world there is air in space, but I couldn't buy it. Without the masks or helmets, I felt cheated and was pulled away from the truth, thus forcing me to realize I was watching a film. Make sense? I was deeply involved with this film until the kids rallied together and shot into space, because of the fake nature of it. I couldn't move past it, and was a discouraging element to the film.Overall, I would strongly suggest this film to families, and in fact, friends. I thought this was a very funny, very smart, and exceptionally well animated film, especially during the age of Pixar. The voices were perfect, the pacing (as mentioned before) was a slice of perfection, and the overall molding of this film was nearly flawless. Outside of the scientific elements that should have been caught (due to the intelligence of our main character), there were moments of pure Oedekerk that made me grin from ear to ear. I liked Jimmy Neutron, and while it may get me laughed at on the playground, I thought that for what it was worth, it gave a good 92% -- and that is still an A isn't it? Check it out &#150; you will be happy! Grade **** out of ***** "}{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was 12 when I saw this movie for the first time, and I thought it was good, clean fun for everyone. My four-year old brother couldn't stop laughing, and even my 17-year-old sister had her moments of explosive laughter. I would definitely recommend this film for adults with kids; even the jokes that you laugh at, your kids will be laughing at, too.Jimmy Neutron, I believe, can teach kids a few things about science; both the TV series (Which I am a huge fan of)and the movie. Jimmy's brain blasts are very interesting, and I think, may enhance problem-solving skills for children. My baby sister has been watching the series since she was born, and is excelling in problem-solving exercises at school.All in all; It seems to be a a cute movie, but it's so much more than that in reality. "},{"Title":"This movie was cool","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This was a good movie, though i am a kid, most kids think the movie as at least GOOD. my brother thinks its annoying. It's about A boy, Jimmy, a genius who sends a message to space aliens. Jimmy makes the mistake of showing his parents to them and telling them where he lives, And his over-protective parents Get very angry at him for talking to strangers. the grand opening of retro-land theme park is that night and he and his 2 best pals, Carl and sheen, All want to go to the grand opening. But his parents, obviously, say no, its a school night. Jimmy gets grounded for setting the house on fire with a jet pack. Nick Is the hottest kid in the grade whom all the girls adore. He tells Jimmy, Carl and sheen to sneak out. so they take his advice and sneak out. the next day no parents were left. Jimmy and his pals and classmates will have to find a way to save their parents before they are eaten by a giant chicken. "},{"Title":"I love Jimmy Neutron","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Jimmy Neutron I have to say, I really funny. I like the music in the movie, Sheen is just plain...Sheen! Carl is adorable with his Llama obsession. I adore the TV show. Sheen and Carl are hilarious. Please let me still like Llamas. Who could not love that? Well, I enjoyed this movie, and I wish I saw it in theaters. I need to go and rent this, I haven't seen it in awhile. Sheen is awesome with his Ultra Lord obsession, as I said with Carl's llama madness. I hope most people enjoyed this film and the show, because it's just awesome. Some episodes are bland, but some of them are great. I enjoyed the recent movie that was on nick. Win, Lose and Kaboom I think it was called.  "},{"Title":"Nickelodeon does something right","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Final Score 8.4 (out of 10)&#145;Jimmy Neutron' is like what you might get if Bill Watterson signed the rights to &#145;Calvin and Hobbes' over to Nickelodeon.  Not that &#145;Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius' has the wit, intelligence and dark edge of a Calvin and Hobbes comic, but it is blistering with a loony imagination and is much smarter and more genuine than anything else found on the network on in it's parent movies to date. JN feels like it was made independent of any meddling from the suits at Nickelodeon and - all except a disappointing final scene that pushes scatological humor into lame &#145;Shrek' territory - is surprisingly free of the general stupidity these movies (and shows) are known for.This movie effectively introduces us to Neutron, and his friends Carl and Sean (whose nasally voice by Jeffrey Garcia I found just intrinsically funny) and gives them an epic cinematic adventure to deal with.  When Jimmy launches a toaster-satellite into orbit he attracts a race of gooey aliens in flying half-glass eggshells (a sight) who abduct the town's parents.  Predictably the kids go nuts without supervision, and predictably they miss their parents and travel the stars to retrieve them in the process learning about family and authority.  However, under the direction of John A. Davis and the pen of Davis and collaborator Steve Oedekirk &#145;Jimmy Neutron' approaches it's material with a respect for the characters and their audience and in a few patches &#150; as in when Neutron explains, in not so many words, why he dreads puberty &#150; is smarter than it's target audience will probably credit it. The animation is an eye-poppingly in it's simply designed beauty. In many ways I prefer this surreal, purely cartoony style to the painstaking attention to detail of the Pixar movies.  It just goes to show the difference in styles in animation between animated films and movies that are still unabashedly cartoons and 'Neutron' proudly resides. The score jumps with a pop soundtrack as vibrant as the visuals - featuring the Go-Go's, Jimmy's own theme and Lil' Romeo redoing Will Smith's Parent's Just Don't Understand all of which sounds amazingly lame on paper but comes off quite good. Davis is able to maintain it's ridiculous fun and creativity throughout. Davis and Oedekirk ('Neutron' is by far this guy's best movie) have made one of those few distinctly children's movies that adults can be proud of too. A strong, worthwhile entry in the small arena of great non-Disney animated movies...and no, that doesn't include &#145;Shrek'.   "},{"Title":"One Worth a Look","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Not everybody will like this movie...however, for an animated film, it succeeds where many others don't. It has the ability to entertain both children and adults, is relatively clean, and has some very likable characters attached to it. The animation isn't poor at all, it has it's own style (who said that all CG animation had to look alike?). There is some top-notch vocal talent in this movie, and that's always a plus. All of the people who worked on it really enjoyed what they were doing, and that makes all the difference...if an adult can't grow up, let him play by making family-friendly entertainment. Suits me just fine! "},{"Title":"You don't have to be perfect","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Having heard average reports of this movie I put off seeing it until it hit the cheaper shelves of my local video shop, and I was pleasantly surprised.NO PLOTThe `no plot' complaints are fair enough as there is little character development. Our Hero Jimmy starts and ends the film being a self-confident brat. His personal battle with his own height is trite because of this, he should have started the film with more self-doubt.Also, there is no kid/adult device to endear us to him. Most family movies play on a theme of `good heart wrongly accused' or similar such romantic notion. No such convolution here, our hero Jimmy learns `not to talk to strangers' for a very simple morale.HOWEVERIt is obvious the creators did not bother being the `cutting edge' of CG. This is a good thing because instead of boring studies into the treatment of hair and fabric they concentrated on getting a rich image. The bold use of colour, texture and lighting affects comes together in a very appealing visual style.Also, I personally found the musical sequences to be a lot more fun than the generally adult centric Toy Story and Shrek sequences (O.K `Jessie's Story' from TS2 still wins).The ultimate compliment for this film is that my children (5 and 7) thoroughly enjoyed its fast pace and cartoon style. If people their age voted at this site, I'm sure it would get a better rating. My kids also enjoyed the `chicken bum' (mentioned by another review).SUMMARYNot in the Class of Toy Story or Shrek (it is cheaper in many ways), but it looks great, the kids will love it, and parents should vicariously enjoy. 7.5/10.  "},{"Title":"A very funny, family-friendly movie.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this movie on DVD and loved it!  I try to watch the show on Nickelodeon when I can.  I watched the tv show before I saw the movie, so I already knew the characters.  I just wanted to know how it all began.I highly recommend this movie for kids of all ages and give it 4 stars. It's very family-friendly and definitely worth renting or buying. "},{"Title":"An 8/10","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is one of those kid movies with grown up jokes in it.  I loved it.  It's remarkably witty.  It is one of the best kid movies of 2001...of course, Monsters Inc. takes the cake. B+, 8/10 "},{"Title":"Seasons 1 & 2 Are Unmissable","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is one of the greatest cartoons ever to hit television. It is all- around well-written and plotted out. I watch it now and my jaw drops at the things I used to miss when I was younger. There are subtle moments that would go right over a kid's head but those moments make the show unmistakably original. Complete with real scientific explanations behind the mishaps in the plot, James Bond parodies, and vocab words like quip, pedantic, perspicacity, one must wonder how differently the writers think from the creators of the mindless filth we pump into our children's brains now. The first two seasons were clever and well thought-out, but the third isn't even worth a watch. Presumably, this is because their award-winning production company, DNA Productions, went defunct at the end of the third season. Hopefully, there will be a Jimmy Neutron revival, as said studio has been reformed out of the ashes. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie is awful.Not only the CGI is pretty bad, with an ugly and incredibly unappealing character design, but also the plot is dull, boring and clichéd, with many annoying characters and unfunny jokes.For me, Jimmy Neutron was the first CGI animated film that I've hated. This movie doesn't have any single redeeming value, failing spectacularly at every single level. It is not even the kind of film that someone could enjoy despite being bad, it just bad, being boring and annoying. To get it worse, this movie also inspired an awful TV show which was terribly in every possible way. Jimmy Neutron is simply one of the worst CGI animations ever made, and it is one of the worst cartoons done by Nickelodeon. "}{"Title":"Terrible, Terrible.","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've been seeing trailers for this film for almost a year now, and I'm glad that it's now been released. Why? SO I'LL NEVER HAVE TO SEE THAT EVIL TRAILER AGAIN. Seriously, I've seen the Jimmy Neutron trailer on the last 10 films that I've seen, and I only see about 1 film per month.As for the movie itself, words cannot describe how bad this movie is.The CG is incredibly ugly. It looks like it was animated 5 years ago. Seriously, the half-completed animated storyboards I've seen for Toy Story look better than this tripe. The dialogue is terrible, the characters are terrible, the whole bloody mess is terrible.  "},{"Title":"Great fun, great movie.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If you're looking for clever, original animation; funny, inventive dialogue, both for kids and adults; and a genuinely entertaining movie-going experience, then seek out Jimmy Neutron. I've noticed a recurring theme among those who pan this movie They seem to have little knowledge of (or affection for) science and technology, the source of much of the humor; and they're sadly lacking in a childlike sense of wonder. For a lot of viewers of all ages, though, this movie is a childhood fantasy vividly brought to life. It's a film I'm proud to watch with my daughter, and we both think it's a riot.Jimmy Neutron is special because it respects the adult in every child, and it brings out the child in many adults. "},{"Title":"No Genius Behind This.","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius (2001) Dir John Davis / Voices Patrick Stewart, Martin Short, Laraine Newman, Andrea Martin, Debi Derryberry Complete idiocy right down to its bull crap plot where aliens invade our planet because they have nothing better to do than kidnap our parents. And why can't Jimmy have a normal last name like Smith, Jones or Ezekiel? Is his last name suppose to convince viewers that this kid is intelligent? After their parents are kidnapped Neutron and a bunch of friends try to rescue them. One of his friends dresses like a superhero because he is a moron and out to prove it. What is the point of someone's head being five times bigger than their body? Directed by John Davis who tries his best to be creative but the animated effects are about as festive as yellow snow and vomit. Voice talents include Patrick Stewart and Martin Short, Laraine Newman and Andrea Martin who no doubt had nothing better to do. Debi Derryberry has the misfortune of voicing the idiotic young hero. There is a message for children regarding growing up and taking responsibility but this is an embarrassing film with laughable special effects that no genius would conjure up. This is the kind of film that should be placed in the access of heavy machinery just to see if it can be crushed and maimed into something far more appealing than what it is. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This aired on Nickelodeon today. Anyway, it was how I expected it to be. I can see why it got a G rating. This has little sex/nudity, little violence/gore, very minor profanity, no drugs/alcohol/smoking, and little scary images/intense moments. I recommend that this would be appropriate for ages 3 and up. I think my parents would enjoy this. This was the last NickToon movie to be rated G. Post-2002 NickToon movies like The Spongebob Squarepants Movie, Rugrats Go Wild, The Wild Thornberrys Movie, and Hey Arnold the Movie, were rated PG. I think they should of received a G rating. Anyway, if you like action movies (animated or not), you should like this movie. I also think my cousin, Konner, would like this movie. "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Film--You don't have to be a kid to enjoy it.","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I personally love this movie especially for its hilarious yet wholesome humor that everybody can enjoy, as well as its awesome computer graphics--Nickelodeon really outdid themselves with this film's animation. The characters work really well together, and each have their own story, but my personal favorite was Martin Short as that fruitcake snot-ball Prime Minister Ooblar as well as Capt. Pickard (Patrick Stewart) as the King. I've never seen Patrick Stewart in a comedy film before this. I did find Cindy as the obnoxious twit a little irritating (but she was supposed to be). I loved this movie, and I'm not a child, I'm in my 20s. All in all, this movie is highly underrated. "},{"Title":"Not just a kids movie.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Granted, this is supposed to be a kids movie, but I had been wanting to rent this for quite some time. I finally got the chance last night and was not disappointed.The scenery, the animation, is rich in detail and color. The movie is definitely not boring and even though you figure the ending way before it gets there, you have to wonder how Jimmy Neutron is gonna pull it off.I can heartily recommend this movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The preview for this movie makes it look like some Dreamworks wannabe, with all the cute little jokes (James Isaac Neutron, etc.) you would expect.  However, the film is an absolute blast, mostly due to it's outstanding sense of humor.  Unlike Monster's Inc, with its tired assortment of cute gags, Jimmy Neutron makes you laugh out loud numerous occasions while being supremely clever and creating characters you care about.  Before I saw it, I was surprised that it was nominated for Best Animated Feature...now I think it's as good if not better than Shrek. "},{"Title":"Fun way to spend a bit of time","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Having viewed it on DVD I got the advantage of the DVDs extras such as the teaser trailers that led up to the beginning of the movie.  I haven't been a child in a long time but think any kid who's ever felt like he or she didn't fit in cause they were different or smarter will more than understand this movie.  If if they are now adults.  I loved all of the sly references and send ups of the sci fi or anime type conventions and genres.  The effects were great the animation seamless and it didn't depend soley on them either. The kids were natural and well filled out as believable characters with understandable motivations.  And let's face it, Jimmy's robot dog, Goddard practically stole the entire movie. First class voice talent, as well as a good story and believable characters made for a movie that gets better with each viewing.  I would love to see more of them made. I know Nickelodeon has a series now but it lends itself to movie form. Anyone else but me think Cindy Vortex and Jimmy will end up married one day? "},{"Title":"Wish I had those gadgets","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a kids movie.  It appeals to its target audience - kids.  Kids don't care about plot holes or the sociological meaning behind a movie.  Kids want to be entertained!  My second son loved this movie so much, that as soon as the credits were done, he hit menu/start movie three times in one day. Personally I loved it too, mostly because of all the cool stuff Jimmy makes out of simple things found around the house.For those looking for a deeper meaning in the movies - STOP WATCHING KID'S MOVIES. "},{"Title":"Terrific on many levels!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I first saw Jimmy Neutron while I was babysitting a four-year old child, and I had to be dragged kicking and screaming into watching the film.  But I was surprised at how much I enjoyed the film, and how much fun it was!Neutron features the same technology as Toy Story, and such clear graphics enhance the enjoyment of the movie.  The music includes the kid favorite Dirty Pop, and also helps the flow of the movie.Like Animaniacs, another project actor Rob Paulsen was involved in, this film has a lot of grown-up humor to keep the adults entertained, while still remaining accessable to the kids.  I enjoyed this movie so much because of the endearing flaws and idiosyncracies of the kids.  Jimmy Neutron is a fun ride, and it makes a great babysitting date. "}{"Title":"Work of art!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Jimmy neutron was the best movie Iv seen this year. It wasnt compleatly overdone like Monsters INC. or shrek and had a good plotline. The animation was just wonderful as well and the characters were so cute! I give it 20/10! "},{"Title":"Jeez, some people really need to cut back on their caffeine!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For starters, I thoroughly enjoyed JNBG.  I saw it immediately after seeing co-writer Steve Oederkerke's other current film, KUNG POW.  An interesting and bizarre sense of humor, that guy has.  I look forward to his future projects.The movie is a great kid's eye fantasy.  It reminded me a lot of the kinds of high tech fantasies I had back then. Maybe that was why I got misty-eyed during the blast-off sequence.  TiNa was right, it is a really beautifully done sequence, showing the launch of the starships the kids have made out of modified amusement park rides.That said, this is not a movie for old people.  I don't mean people who are chronologically old.  I mean people who are SPIRITUALLY OLD.  Reading the preceding 37 posts, I have to say there are some truly depressed people wandering these boards, looking for ways to vent their bile.Guys, this is a movie.  This is an entertainment.  This is a fantasy. This is all it's out to do and GUESS WHAT?  IT SUCCEEDS!  This is a fun movie. I am looking forward to the video release and hoping Nick gives it a greenlight as a series. "},{"Title":"Colourful and harmless stuff that will please kids without hurting adults","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Not only does he have a big haircut, but young Jimmy Neutron is a boy genius who has all manner of inventions and gadgets at his disposal. A garbled signal from space sees him trying to locate the source by heading out of Earth's atmosphere but without any success. Jimmy's parents try to encourage his genius but a boy needs rules and they still have to be a bit strict with him. Naturally this doesn't stop Jimmy and sneaking out to the Future Fair is only one of the ways he shows his independence. However when an alien fleet kidnaps all the adults from earth, Jimmy and his friends have little time to rescue them (after initially enjoying a bit of freedom of course).With a cool, if overly computerised look and feel to it I thought I'd give this film a go while a little bored over the Christmas period and, although not anything that great, I must admit that I quite enjoyed it. The computer animation is technically impressive but some other viewers might struggle with how very polished and computerised it all looks &#150; I wasn't looking for realism but I had hoped for a little bit of warmth or a human touch wouldn't have gone amiss. The plot is simple but quite enjoyable &#150; obviously you have to buy into it to go along with it but it will certainly engage children easily enough. The jokes match the animation in that they are mainly childish, colourful and harmless, however they are still easily enjoyed by adults as well as having basic stuff for children. There are some nice touches aimed at adults but if you're expecting the wit or intelligence of Toy Story in either the humour or the narrative then you'll probably be disappointed.The voice cast mainly match the harmless tone and nobody really does badly but nobody is able to make much of their characters via their performances. Derryberry is OK as Jimmy while all his friends' roles are well enough done by people like Garcia, Lawrence and Milo. DeCarlo is amusing as Jimmy's dad but the star guests are not quite as good as I would have liked. Stewart and Short both benefit from amusing alien characters but I thought that more could have been made of the semi-amusing Star Trek gags involving Stewart.Overall this is a colourful and entertaining film that will amuse children and at least be viewed by adults with some air of interest. Just don't expect anything approaching the quality of things like Toy Story etc and you should be OK with this. "},{"Title":"Awesome and fun )","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I love this movie because this is old school and I loved the part of the Jimmy Neutron movie where there were no parents. This is arguably the best movie I've seen in my life. I got all of Jimmy Neutron's merchandise on Amazon.com, so that means I am officially a Jimmy Neutron fan of this review. Unlike any other Nick show I watched in my whole life, Jimmy Neutron is the best. Another one of my favorites part was when Nick Dean screamed like a girl. I also know when Jimmy and his friends try to rescue their parents from the Yolkians. I am a Jimmy Neutron fan because he's a cool guy and he also 3d animated. That's my review of this Jimmy Neutron movie. "},{"Title":"A Great Tribute to Superman","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This was an enjoyable film, I felt as if Jimmy was the Superman of Nickelodeon, I was unsure about this film as a kid, but since there was nothing to do since the Bears already had the playoff spot in the bag, and since I was trying to get an awful episode out of my head, I figured this should be a good experience. I haven't seen a movie really great.Anyway the movie is amazing, I enjoyed watching the film as a kid and as a teenager, the humor's good, and the story plot is good for a channel for Nickelodeon, overall I enjoyed the movie. Heck, I even rescored the movie with Superman music from Hans Zimmer, Shirley Walker, John Williams, and John Ottoman. I thought the movie was really entertaining. Jimmy Neutron was a great film, but did it need a show? "},{"Title":"Safe kid's movie","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Jimmy Neutron is smarter than everybody else, but the kids at school don't see that as a good thing. When aliens find one of Jimmy's inventions, they trace it back to Earth where they kidnap all the adults. At first the kids have fun with the parents gone, but eventually they need them back. So Jimmy build a fleet of spaceships, and the kids mount a rescue mission.The animation is a bit blocky but it works for this kids movie. The story works well. The characters are fun and interesting. It doesn't have adult references so this isn't really a movie for the adults. It's mostly for the kids, and it's safe family fun. Even the aliens are cute and brightly colored. "},{"Title":"Exercise your right to dream","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius was one of the biggest gambles Nickelodeon ever took and it paid off immensely. Making a film entirely off of the quick-witted shorts that the network aired in between programs frequently and off of one brief TV pilot isn't something every company jumps at the opportunity to do, but Nickelodeon bravely took a risk and it paid off by launching one of the network's most beloved cartoons.Personally, I was never a big fan of The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, which ran on Nickelodeon from 2002 to 2006 and spawned a spin-off in 2010 based on one of its side characters. I was big (and still am) on programs and movies that had relatable characters, and I couldn't much relate to an unsung genius who concocted little mechanical machines in his bedroom to use to benefit every day life. The show's main theme was the theme of being under-appreciated for a talent one boldly possesses and how one can go under the radar when they're potentially making a big difference.Yet at seventy-seven minutes, the official introduction we get of Jimmy Neutron, an incredibly advanced ten year old kid who has a knack for inventions, a super-powered mind, and a mechanical canine, isn't half bad and zips along with its free-spirited, relatively easy-on-the-eyes animation and cute, charming little premises that teaches the youth of today the importance of parental influence and societal order. Just don't tell your kids that going into it. Jimmy Neutron (voiced by Debi Derryberry) has been trying to make contact with alien lifeforms for weeks now, yet to no avail. He winds up sending them something of a care package with a video showing his parents, himself, his dog, and his life on earth.There is a new theme park opening in town and Jimmy and his friends Carl Wheezer (Rob Paulsen), a chubby asthmatic and Sheen (Jeffrey Garcia) are denied permission to attend the grand opening because of it being on a school night. They decide to rebel against parental authority and sneak out anyway, returning just in time before being caught by their parents. They wake up the next day to find all the adults removed from planet earth, leaving nothing but a generic note saying that they have gone to Florida. The kids are initially thrilled, free of the shackles of discipline, and commit acts they assume to be inconsequential such as having a contest to see who can eat the most cotton candy and who can wreak as much havoc.It soon backfires, with an influx of owies, boo-boos, tummy aches, and constipation (another reason I was off-put by this film when I was young was the thought of losing my mom and dad, who I preciously clung to like a magnet on a refrigerator; the scenes of the kids hurt in some way, crying for their parents deeply upset my wimp-self). Jimmy investigates and learn that giant, spherical aliens housing mysterious green liquids have kidnapped their parents and plan to make a surprise launch to space, using amusement park equipment as their rocketry.This is silly, innocuous fare that isn't as substantial as a Pixar endeavor, but light-years more effective in terms of escapism and imagination than anything currently on the primetime Nickelodeon lineup. The animation here replicates a more unpolished feel that improved on the typical hand-drawn animation pioneered by The Walt Disney Company, yet not refurbished to look like something along the lines of Monster's Inc. or Shrek (the animated competition during the original release of Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius). The story depth is slim and slender too, which will definitely not be a burden to kids or adults, who should take time to appreciate and recognize the highly imaginative material at hand here. Reiterating that my liking for the show, even growing up, was small and concise, and my memory of the film's plot sour and not wholly positive, this was a pleasing and successful romp, emphasizing on what kid's need to do more of; dream.Voiced by Debi Derryberry, Rob Paulsen, Jeffrey Garcia, Patrick Stewart, and Martin Short. Directed by John A. Davis. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I thought I was heading for a boring movie with lots of unfunny scenes, because many critics had rendered this a movie for kids, and kids only. How wrong they ended up to be.How on earth can this be a movie just for kids when I actually died laughing several times during the movie? There were also many little details that were funny, details that may be difficult for kids to notice, i.e. the white and red dwarves in the starry sky.Okay it might be that this movie is for folks with a special sense of humor, the kind that finds Dumb & dumber to be a funny movie. So i don't recommend it for folks who dislike that kind. Someone actually criticized the graphics too, which I found to be extremely well done. You know this was supposed to be a funny movie, not a Rembrandt. "},{"Title":"Quite entertaining for adults too","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Much better than previews depict it, and MUCH better than most of Disney's attempts at comedy. This one works, enjoyment for both the kids and adults, and the special effects are very impressive as well. Rent it first and judge for yourself.... "},{"Title":"Patrick Stewart makes this movie...","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ...and hearing him perform is pure delight. This movie may feel a bit slick and marketed, but it's Nickelodeon, so that's to be expected. It's really worth watching just to hear Stewart perform. And a dog that can blow up and then re- form? How cool is that? "}{"Title":"Has its Good Stretches, but not Consistent","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My daughter (age 3 at the time) insisted I get her this video at the store, and I caved in.  I watched it with her and it has some good moments.  I enjoyed the indulgent father letting his kid know that he is doing cool stuff (learning and building interesting things), as his mother scolds him for the havoc he creates when things go awry (and they do). However, the plot seems to lack continuity and there is a bit of this is a story for kids theme, that the best movies in the genre don't have. I've always secretly thought that this is for kids is code words for its not good enough for adults but we've got to sell it.Regarding the computer graphics (I've done a bit of computing myself), its O.K. (not quite Pixar level, but not bad).  The songs in the sound track aren't too bad (although a lot of stuff is recent remakes, with the newer recording artists than people my age are likely to listen to).So, its not a bad effort, but rather than ducking some hard issues and putting in some pandering stuff to try to appease the kids, it is better to let the kids deal with some hard issues.  If you want character development, more interesting story line, then Shrek, Babe, and Toy Story are far better movies (these are classics).  However, if you are watching a kid and want to relax a few hours and watch a diverting rental, you may get a few laughs, and my kid at least enjoys it a lot.  "},{"Title":"Shaders aside, this movie rocks!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you can get past the fact that clearly Jimmy Neutron's animation rendering can't compare to Skrek or any of the Disney films you may be able to appreciate a very good story.  Jimmy Neutron pops off the screen with a boldness that is really unique for a lead character (usually the side kick has to carry these types of stories).  Despite, Ice Age making a ton of money at the box office the characters were lackluster.  I'm sure the write would admit to this.  But Jimmy is packed with great action sequences from start to finish.  The parents are funny, the ancillary characters are rich and insightful and the use of gadgetry is fun.  Like, The Iron Giant, Jimmy Neutron was missed by a lot of folks out there but remains to be a great video rental.  In short, check this out if you can and parents will find that this isn't just another film to busy the kids for awhile - you'll get hooked in yourself! "},{"Title":"fun for all ages!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This fast-moving 'kids' movie has so much going for it. I'm sure I laughed louder than my 6-year-old son. It doesn't waste any time with lousy show tunes, the characters are all fun, and it's highly creative (what kid/adult wouldn't enjoy some of those theme park rides?) It may not be Oscar material, but it's good, clean fun. "},{"Title":"See it as a KID!! 7 out of 10!","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The internet. Freedom of speech or a howling from out of the wilderness? After reading some of the comments posted throughout IMDB, let alone this movie, I firmly believe it is the latter. I think there are a lot of people out there who just shouldn't be heard from.See JM from a kids view point because it is a movie made for KIDS!! DUH! Adults should NEVER view these things and trash them because of lack of meaningful subtext and for having no adult humour. Go watch Godford's Park or something equally stupid and insipid, pointless and meaningless. Now THAT movie was Oscar banality at it's worse!Jimmy Neutron delivers to kids in a pretty large way. It was funny, fast-paced, not overly long, and not too preachy. The animation was pretty good, and it was extremely colorful! It was funny, it DID have a little adult humour, and something of a moral to the story. I seen it as everyone has an important contribution to make, no matter what other people think of you.Maybe the plot wasn't THAT original, but the aliens were, and Poultra was kind of goofy and fun. Martin Short had some of the funniest lines and Patrick Stewart was a hoot.Not being able to breathe in space a plot hole? Come on!! Jimmy himself is a plot hole! The kid makes a shrinking device and fusion rocket engines in two days, and the air in space thing is a problem?Maybe it isn't a Toy Story or a Shrek (which, I think was intended more for adults than kids), I still give this rocket ride an easy 7 out of 10! Why? Because it was a colorful, fun KIDS movie! "},{"Title":"For Children, Charming and Funny","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, so not one to compare to Citizen Kane, but come one, it was fun.  And my boy loves it.The voice roles of Patrick Stewart and Martin Short are extremely well done.  Don't look for what isn't meant to be there, such as depth or meaning.  This film is meant for kids, and in my opinion, works very well.8/10 (on the children's movie scale) "},{"Title":"Saving The World One Step At A Time","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well it seems that Jimmy's and other children's parents have been kidnapped by aliens. And they all travel to space to save their parents. But King Goobot And Ooblar just won't allow that. I liked the part where Ooblar was trying to tear Goddard to little tiny pieces but Goddard ate his tool. At the end King Goobot ends up looking like coleslaw and Ooblar ends up in an egg but without the yolk. "},{"Title":"Made for kids, period.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think if I was under the age of 10 or so, this film would appeal to me.  It lacked the adult subtext that is present in many movies aimed at kids.  Presumably, adult-oriented humor/themes/whatever is stuck in a movie to give the parents bringing their kids something to enjoy, but it also can help make a movie generally more watchable.  'Jimmy Neutron' had none of it.That isn't to say, however, that it was terrible or anything.  Just don't rent it unless you are playing it for kids. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed it!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When my younger siblings asked to buy this everyone jumped at the idea. It was a funny (very)movie and little kids do like it. A friend older than me also saw it and commented This is terrific! I (laughing) love (more laughing) this! My friend watched it two more times that night. I also think the animations are terrific. But the parts of Jimmy and the gang in space with no oxygen, sort of made the movie seem a little unrealistic.  "},{"Title":"Give this movie a chance!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I must admit, when I saw this film at the dollar show, 4 kids in tow, I really wasn't head-over-heels for it... The kids wanted to see it again, so instead of buying it, we rented it.  I must say, the film has totally grown on me.  It isn't the greatest of children's movies, but it does have some really funny stuff in it!  Martin Short as Ooblar is just a RIOT!  He has some very funny/great dialogue!  As does Jeffrey Garcia who plays Sheen, the 'Ultra Lord' junkie.  (Anyone that has a kid addicted to Buzz Lightyear, like me, can TOTALLY relate!)  Patrick Stewart, Rob Paulsen, Frank Welker & Jim Cummings (one of my all time favorite voice actors) are all fabulous as well.  Goddard the 'techno-puppy' is a wonderful character... From design right on down the line, he is wayyyyy cool.  Don't poo-poo this movie after one viewing, it has some really great stuff that you may not have picked up on the first time around!  I gave it a 7/10 taking into consideration how I felt about it after my first viewing... now I would give it 9/10! *Remember, this is a CHILDREN'S movie, not a movie designed for adults.  It is definitely a great one to add to a video collection! "},{"Title":"it's a kiddie show but its good","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  i admit it is a kiddie movie but i like it.after you watch it a couple times it starts to grow on you.sometimes it's a little dull but the majority of it is pretty good and funny.it is better than i thought it would be...alot better than i thought it would be.but the only character that i really mostly like is Sheen.the other ones kinda boring after awhile.so if you havn't seen it you should see it,you might like it even though it is for kids "}{"Title":"Very light-hearted adventure you cannot help but enjoy!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Lots of people say they didn't like this movie, and I have to wonder what they really expected from an animated kids' movie.  Deep plot, full of twists and turns?  Bzzzzzzzzzt.  Wrong answer, Bucko! Instead, Jimmy Neutron is full of vivid colours, exciting action, childish humour, and it proved highly entertaining for my girlfriend and I, both of us being well advanced in years of the target audience of this movie, and we don't even have kids!  I give it 9/10, and urge anyone with an open mind to rent it "},{"Title":"We loved it!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my three children- and they laughed and really enjoyed themselves! My husband and I enjoyed the jokes and references thatwere over our kids heads.  Catching those made us laugh too. All in all, a very enjoyable time! "},{"Title":"We loved it!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my three children- and they laughed and really enjoyed themselves! My husband and I enjoyed the jokes and references thatwere over our kids heads.  Catching those made us laugh too. All in all, a very enjoyable time! "},{"Title":"Giving praise where it is due.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Having seen the trailer for this film, I wanted to see it a lot. I was disheartened to see that the cinema only have a few showings, and this is the week of release. The movie itself lived and surpassed my expectations for it.There's been a lot of computer animated films recently, from major production companies and also some new ones to the field and I felt this was indeed a worthy addition. The style of 3d animation was slightly different from the others, and it went with the feel of the film.The humour was excellent, enjoyable by 5 year old and 23 year old alike. I took my girlfriend who was reluctant to see the film and she laughed all the way through it.In all a very enjoyable film that kids will love, and young at heart adults will love too. "},{"Title":"Hey Folks! It's for children!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After seeing the Toy Stories, Shrek, Monsters and others, I went to see Jimmy Neutron. Unlike the others, this film has no adult meaning, in the sense that it can appeal to young and old. It's meant for children only.Having said that, I won't quibble about the not-so-cool animation, about the rather shallow storyline or about the plot holes. Let me tell what my 4-year old said Daddy, I want to see it again!!!. For the kids it was great. Lots of planes, spaceships, burps, flying action. I guess that if children voted, this film would have a much better score. "},{"Title":"A sweet and funny cartoon with lots of good one-liners","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my 11 year old daughter to see this movie and thought I would be bored to tears.  Surprisingly I enjoyed it.  There is a lot of humour and dialogue that goes right over the head of the kids but which made me smile right through the movie.The graphics and animation are superb and there is not a single boring minute.  Good fun, good dialogue, witty and clever.  Some of the humour reminded me of the Simpsons. "},{"Title":"Thought it was good","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Though it may not appeal to everyone, it is a good movie.  I could see how this movie could be considered a flop by a lot of adults, but as long as you don't try to analyze it and nit pick it.  And enjoy it for what it is and who is was designed for KIDS.It was a great movie that I could take and enjoy with both my 8 and 6 year olds.  Not to many movies out there that I would consider taking my kids to.Hope that they make a sequeal. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining, fun little movie","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  While JM won't go down as an all time classic, as anything from Pixar seems to (deservedly), I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. Kids will get a lot more out of it than adults, no question it's pitched at the little-uns much more than us, but I found it a lot of fun.More cartoony in it's animation than recent 3D animated films have been, Jimmy Neutron also looks great, particularly given it's tiny budget (around 1/3-1/4 of the likes of Monsters and Shrek) and off-the-shelf software origins, and the story movies along nice and quickly. The inevitable Oderkirk toilet humour was fortunately pretty minimal, although kids love burbing and body noises, so who am I to complain?  "},{"Title":"If you actually like cartoons","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you actually like cartoons you'll realize that this movie and good and cute and funny. me, my dad and grandmother went we all got a kick out of it. we thought it was funny i loved the cast and the animation was cool.  You felt you were there.  The story was good cause every now and then kids do wonder no parents how cool but these kids find out its not so cool and they want them back.  They had no one to tuck them in or to sing to them they all had their own thing with their parents and it not happening like it always does and missing your parents well.  They found out the hard way but in the end everyone's happy.  If you like a movie with a good everything then i say go see and especially take the kids.   "},{"Title":"KIDZ ONLY!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you are looking for a serious more adult movie do not go to the theaters and make the same mistake I did! `Jimmy Neutron' is for kids only. I will say that it is a great kids movie, however. The graphics along with the soundtrack is cool! There were quite a few hilarious moments in the movie. Like when `Nick' walks up to the giant chicken and Sheen peeing in the shower. I will rate this movie a 9/10 `that's still an A!' "}{"Title":"Nice movie, great hit!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  To be fair the movie wasn't great, but it was entertaining and it was very well targeted at little kids. You can see this in the humor and because it wasn't very long. As far the technical side of it, the movie was beautifully rendered. The colors are bright and appealing. The animation is dynamic and very cartoony which reinforces the whole feel of the picture. I loved the style of the characters, scenes and props. Animation should stay away from photorealistic stuff.To those who say this is a flop, just look at the facts Final Fantasy cost 137m to make and it has grossed 35m (in the US). Jimmy Neutron had a budget of 25m and grossed 76.2m (in the us). Clearly this is a victory for animation. Well done! "},{"Title":"ALIENS","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This comment may contain some spoilers. `Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius' is a great movie for kids. It provides an hour and a half of pure adventure and enjoyment! `James Isaac Neutron' is a science genius elementary boy with a laboratory full of cool inventions. Unfortunately one of his inventions led some weird looking aliens to planet earth and to everyone's parents. Now Jimmy and his friends must rescue their parents from a HUGE chicken in outer space. Along their adventure in space there are happy and not so happy moments. Can Jimmy and his friends save their parents before it is too late? Well I'm not going to tell you that. I will leave the rest to the actors. This movie sends out a great message to kids on why they should respect their parents. There is a great soundtrack to go with the movie. Some songs include `AC's Alien Nation' by Aaron Carter, `Parents Just Don't Understand' by Lil' Romeo. 3LW. Nick Cannon., and `He Blinded Me With Science' by Melissa Lefton. I enjoyed this movie because of the adventure and the music that went along with the adventure. It's a great family movie so if your kids love cartoons and love adventures then hurry to your local theater while Jimmy Neutron is still playing and HAVE A BLAST!!  "},{"Title":"OK. (For the kids atleast!)","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For some odd reason I decided to see this kid movie. I got in the theater with my friends expecting to be the oldest, and I was right. All little kids 10 or younger. So I started watching the movie. With Jimmy Neutron's impossible, but entertaining inventions. I think me and my friends were the only ones laughing because it had a lot of adult humor in it. The little kids would just laugh at the corny jokes. Overall, the special effects (computer animation atleast) were fairly ok. The Plot, predictable, and ability of any of this ever happening, IMPOSSIBLE! One thing that sets that off, is that the kids seem to be breathing in space, and on top of stellar objects. I know he's a genius, but being a genius doesn't enable you to Breathe Nothing! "},{"Title":"Came out of theatre not upset about spending the money -)","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Saw this last night with my 9year old and wife.This is not a Disney show. This is not a Pixar-animation. This is not a 'realistic' plot and not 'realistic' animation. And that's why it shines. It doesn't try to be something it's not.It's bright, it's funny, it's slapstick humour with the odd adult touch thrown in. Did you wonder why the dog's name is Goddard? Look it up -)Aside from a few slow parts, the show moved along well. The soundtrack was the best since Shrek (Shrek had great music and lyrics, this one has great music - I didn't follow the lyrics -)No sappy songs, kids that everybody can relate to (you will be hard-pressed not to have felt like them at some point), the neatest darn space fleet you can imagine, Captain Picard in a great performance, and Ed Grimley as the court jester.This is worth seeing at the theatre just so that you don't have to wait for the video.  "},{"Title":"Nailed the 8-10 Year Old Boy (7/10)","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  (I saw this in the theater, YMMV)Your reaction to the opening scene will determine whether you like this movie or not.  The movie opens with Jimmy Neutron and his buddy Carl flying a homemade rocket to the upper atmosphere to place a communications satellite, made from a toaster and a spatula, into orbit.Got it?  Good.Now the great thing with opening the movie this way is that from the very start, all bets are off.  This is obviously going to be a little kid's dream.  If you can't handle that, then get up right then because it only goes much further from there.  For me, the opening scene clicked me into the right frame of mind (of suspension of disbelief) and never jarred me out of it.Listen to any sentence that starts with Wouldn't it be cool if we had a... from the mouth of an 8-10 year old boy, and you would get the description of things that Jimmy Neutron makes  homemade rocketships, plants that eat girls, Burping Cola (a burp with every sip), or a robot dog. Much of the screen time is taken with Jimmy and pals playing with these, and other, things.The plot is simple, aliens take all the parents and Jimmy Neutron and the other kids go get them back.  But again, the thinking of an 8-10 year old boy is perfectly presented again.  Jimmy Neutron doesn't just make any old spaceship, he turns rides from an amusement park into interstellar ships to fly off to save the parents.This is a fun movie and just short enough to keep from getting to be stretched thin.  It is not as technically beautiful as the contemporary Monsters, Inc., but, unlike that souless movie, it much more fun. "},{"Title":"A fun, fast-paced adventure for kids and kids-at-heart","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm always a sucker for the latest CGI film, but with Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius (produced by Nickelodeon, a kids' cable channel), I was a *little* worried that the humour would be too childish, but even the trailers seemed to show an understanding that the best way to make a kid's movie these days is to include stuff for the adults too. Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius is about, umm, a boy, named Jimmy Neutron who, in a surprising twist, is a genius. Jimmy Neutron (James Isaac Neutron to his mother) is an inventor, of course, and we are treated to dozens of his crazy inventions throughout the movie -- stuff that only a kid could possibly come up with! After trying to make contact with an alien civilization, all the adults in the neighbourhood are kidnapped, and Jimmy and his friends have to use his inventions to go get their parents back. Definitely a kid-friendly (ie. simple) plot, with plenty of eye-candy and bright colours for the little ones, but never gets 'dumb' either. There are plenty of in-jokes for the adults, and heck, even a few for us science geeks. So get out there, borrow a kid for an afternoon and check out Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius. Ignore that noise you hear off in the background, it's just the sound of a sequel rushing to a theatre soon.   "},{"Title":"This will be in my DVD collection","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Don't try to compare this movie to other computer-animated movies.  The style is VERY different from 'Monsters Inc.' and 'Shrek' but should not mark it as a sub-standard production.  It is very funny and I noticed a lot of adult laughter during the show.  Yes, you do have to suspend belief quite often but after all; it is a cartoon.   "},{"Title":"Decent film, questionable teaching","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  	John A. Davis et al.'s JIMMY NEUTRON BOY GENIUS is a well-done film that older viewers may find funnier than kids do There  are a number of nice little sight gags the kids will miss.   What bothers me is that kids will see the film on their own and not discuss it with elders, for the film has a strong MORAL (like the moral of a fable), a debatable one that they should start debating.   	The film teaches children that, with cops the only exception, strangers are not to be talked to-not even intergalactic strangers trying to make First Contact.  Or, especially not strangers who are truly alien, since aliens will kidnap your parents, possess them, and try to eat them.   Such a message may make some kids safer, but it's dangerous for community community is based on trust, and for any community beyond a very small village, that means trusting strangers.  	Older kids might follow JIMMY NEUTRON with renting TERMINATOR II, for the suggestion that even cops can be a threat-and older kids and younger should be talked with about the necessity for both caution and trust, in dealing with cops and other strangers.   Younger children should watch  E.T. THE EXTRATERRESTRIAL.    	There is an SF tradition, most famously shown in THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL (1951), that if aliens did arrive from space, some American would try to shoot them.   Americans aren't more xenophobic than most people, just better armed than most people.  Don't talk to strangers is one lesson kids must learn.  But the Jewish morning prayers rank Welcome the stranger as an obligation right up there with Honor father and mother, and there's a whole lot to be said for welcoming strangers, too.   JIMMY NEUTRON is a good place to start discussing with kids such conflicts.     "},{"Title":"A+ Movie Here","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Like many people, I was excited about this movie, I have been for months. And when I came out of the theaters, I wasn't at all near disappointed. However, I won't recommend this movie to anyone who doesn't appricate fantasy, adventure, humor and that the animation was awesome, this movie has.The Charaters We meet cute and funny boy genius Jimmy Neutron, his best friend although quite slow Carl, hilarious Sheen who reminds us of hero worshipping (or cartoon character fans), know-it-all and very lovable Cindy Vortex, her best friend who is all electronic Libby, a new meaning to medal mouth Jimmy's invention Goddard, also Mr. Cool and the bully Nick Dean that all the girls fall head over heels for, the dad who is practically the child, the mom who can fix the car, the teacher who reminds us of chickens, and evil bad guy alien King Goobot, and his fast talking won't be quiet assistant Ooblar, and the scarriest chicken type thing Poultra.About all of these characters are unike in their own way, mostly characters like Sheen or Libby, we don't see that much.The Voices Debi Derryberry gives Jimmy Neutron a cute and smart voice that really tells us he's a little kid, Rob Paulsen gives Carl the perfect slow and confused voice. Carolyn Lawrence gives Cindy the perfect girly additude voice that can change from know-it-all to serious to caring to in love. Jeffrey Garcia gives Sheen that perfect voice that tells us when he's afraid or when he's brave or thinking of Ultra Lord. Crystal Scales gives Libby a smarty voice like she is, Andrea Martain gives teacher Ms. Fowl the perfect nonosense teacher voice as well as living to the name Fowl as she gives a great chicken voice. Megan Cavanagh gives Jimmy's mom that great motherly voice that goes from caring to you know better than that, Mark DeCarlo gives Jimmy's dad that famous not quite smart dad voice. To make a long story short, the people who did the voices did an awesome job.The Animation Ok, this is why I think the animation is so great,it isn't overwhelming, it's colorful and bright, it doesn't distract you from the story, and the way the characters are designed isn't realistic, no one can have Jimmy's head or hair like his! What really struck me as awesome was that the people who made this used what is called Off the shelf animation in other words, you can buy the stuff they use to make the movie from Best Buy.To make this long story short, this is one of the best animated movies of all time! Rated G, all audiences Grade A+  "},{"Title":"Funny, And Fun!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius is a great movie for both kids and adults. At least I think so. I see a lot of movies and a lot of kids movies too, and this I can say is one of the better ones. Apart from almost getting a seizure when the parents got kidnaped by aliens, this movie was steady-paced and easy to watch. You dont even need to like the plot, the animation is so fantastic it will draw you in all by itself! I highly recommend this movie for kids, adults, and anyone else who's interested! "}{"Title":"Beautiful to look at and funny for all.","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Jimmy Neutron uses beautiful colors and lighting in it's animation that is sure to start a new trend.  The life-like, yet still cartoony animation is catching kids attention as well as many young adults and adults alike. This film is fun to watch and just plain funny. Filled with interesting and adorable characters, you can't help but get interested in the story. But above all else, I just loved staring at the screen. I couldn't believe the radiant colors poping up all over the place. Keep your eyes open for the blast-off from the theme park scene, probably one of the most beautiful and well animated sequences in the entire movie. Parents, take your kids (you will enjoy it just as much as they do) and everyone else, take a chance on this one...you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"sucks","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  i dont see why the hell they took somethin like jimy neutron, which isnt even a real show, and made it into the lamest movie ever.  the plot is unoriginal as ever (wow lets save the world from aliens etc). give me dexter's lab anyday over this crap "},{"Title":"Good for a kid show","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is an entertaining show for children (11 and under).   I took my kid and it passed the test with her.  I found it funny - and, in fact, my only real complaint is that I think a movie based on a scientific genius should at least pay a tiny - tiny bit of attention to scientific principles.  I was rather looking forward to a move that might be science-fiction for children, and got something that completely trashed science.  This movie made even the Power Puff Girls look realistic by comparison.   But still, if mindless fun is all you want in a movie, then by all means check Jimmy Neutron out.          "},{"Title":"A funny and exciting ride...","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  JIMMY NEUTRON BOY GENIUS B+JIMMY NEUTRON BOY GENIUS is a great movie for all ages. It's clever, cute, funny, and exciting. I pretty much laughed non-stop throughout the whole thing. While the animation is pretty bad, it works here. Like the animation in RUGRATS isn't great, it works.Jimmy Neutron (Debi Derryberry) is a genius. He has a high-teck laboratory and at least twenty different inventions. The only thing is, he's short and everyone ridicules him. He has two friends which include his best friend Carl Wheezer (Rob Paulson) and Sheen, a giant fan of Ultra-Lord. The three sneak out one night and meet Nick Dean (Candi Milo), the bad kid that everyone swoons over. They go to the opening of the Ultra-Lord Theme Park, where they ride rides, get sick, and touch llamas. When they are walking home, they see a shooting star and Jimmy makes the wish that parents would just go away. They all go home and when they wake up in the morning no parents! At first they think this is great, running around doing anything they want (this makes for a great sequence where they all run around to the tune of the Ramones' Blitzkreig Bop.)But, after one day, they realize that they want there parents back. Meanwhile, Jimmy is tracking his toaster satellite that he sent out to space. He picks up a signal from a slimy green egg type of alien. He finally realizes what happened to his parents. Aliens have kidnapped them! Jimmy and the rest of the neighborhood embark on a journey across the galaxy to get their parents back. The leader of these aliens is King Goobot (Patrick Stewart) who is accompanied by his bumbling servant Ooblar (Martin Short). Their plan is to sacrifice the parents to their god, a giant chicken. Can Jimmy and his friends stop these evil aliens in time?The thing I loved about this movie is it plays like a cheesy space opera. Jimmy Neutron is a lovable character with his Ace Ventura haircut. But, the best character is Carl, the chubby sidekick. He steals the show and provides almost all of the movies laughs. This is a hilarious, fun movie that had me laughing the whole way through. It never gets boring and knows how to provide the laughs.  "},{"Title":"see it before you take the kids","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my 6 year old daughter to this film after checking it out at a parent review site which seemed very thorough.  After viewing the film I think that, had I previewed the film myself, I would have passed on bringing my daughter.  It is geared for older kids (jokes with references to other shows or subjects young kids may not be familiar with) and much weirder and scarier in parts than the review indicated.  Also, the story was disappointingly lame for being built around such a cool idea.  Jimmy's doodads were really cool and interesting but a lot of the characters were really flat and uninteresting.  Also, I felt that the story would have been just as exciting without some of the scarier elements on the alien planet. Some of the subject matter was too sophisticated to even be fun human sacrifice, strange god worship, elaborate techno stuff.  But, see it and see what you think. "},{"Title":"It's a kid's movie....but entertaining enough for adults...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Come on people....the reviews I've been reading here are as if this movie was supposed to be contending for an academy award!  We took our 9 and 5 year old and had a nice afternoon!  The film is fun and geared toward children.  There's not the Shrek or Monster's Inc. or Osmosis Jones dialog that is aimed at adults, it's just plain fun for kids.So if you want a nice movie that's clean and safe for your children....take them to this!  They'll enjoy it and you'll feel good about taking them to see something funny without all the adultisms.  And besides, we laughed at many of the jokes too..... "},{"Title":"This movie is fun!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I gotta say I enjoyed Jimmy Neutron  Boy Genius.  You may say that this film isn't a Shrek or Monsters, Inc.  Of course not!  Nor is it supposed to be.  It's not always necessary to be so detailed as to show every strand of hair on a guy's head or anything.  This film has a CARTOON look to go with a CARTOON plot.  But that's not to say this film isn't still a visual knockout, because it is!  The cast is excellent and hilarious, especially Rob Paulsen as Carl Wheezer.  The soundtrack was good, with We Got the Beat, Kids in America, and others.  And Goddard!  The coolest character in the movie!  Immediately after the film I wanted (and still want) a Goddard toy!  Again, I found this film really enjoyable.By thy side,Figaro "},{"Title":"Not bad, kids loved it.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I gave this movie a 6, because I thought it was watchable and quite inventive, but I'm guessing it will be quickly forgettable, didn't really have much of a heart beneath the computer animated perfection.  A few chuckles for the adults if you pay close attention. The main thing was, my twin 3 year olds loved it, and were riveted the whole way.  Fun movie, reminiscent of James and the Giant Peach.  Much better than sitting home watching Thomas the Tank Engine again. "},{"Title":"Dazzling Display","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  JIMMY NEUTRON is a dazzling, fast-paced comedy adventure that may be short on story but long on entertainment. My 8-year-old son and I give it a thumbs-up, particularly the barrage of mildly naughty one-liners and the imaginative animation. At least for now, computer animation rules over the traditional Disney-style cartoons of the past year, Atlantis and The Emperor's New Clothes.  "},{"Title":"Great movie for the kids -- And I liked it, too.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I found this movie enjoyable and totally delightful.    I have two boys, ages 5 and 7, and they both liked it -- especially the burping, they told me.  I thought the plot was fun with minimal objectionable content.  I grew up reading Tom Swift Jr. and watching Jonny Quest (note the proper spelling !!), so Jimmy Neutron felt like an old friend.  I get frustrated that there are not more movies in the theater that parents cannot take younger children to see.  From rumors, I understand this is going to be a Nickelodeon show. I welcome it.  Shows like Dexter's Laboratory disturb me -- I really do not like my boys to watch it.  Jimmy Neutron would make a preferred replacement.Thank you Nickelodeon Pictures. "}{"Title":"It's not for adults!!!","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It amazes me how critics and other adults want to comment negatively on a movie for children. From a marketing perspective it should appeal to the adults because we have to sit through the film with our kids, but other than that, the movie is not for adults! It doesn't matter if we think the animation is crappy or the storyline dull. If the colors are bright and the voices are chipper, then that is all that matters. My son was hypnotized by the movie. In the humble opinion of this critic, that means it was a good CHILDREN'S movie. Actually, I thought it was cute.  "},{"Title":"A joyous lark. Ideal for kids & young at heart.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The best review I can imagine was listening to the mother with her young children behind me.Comments before movie started Mommy, I want to go HOME. -- ShhhAt the start Oh! It's Jimmy Neutron! Oh! -- ShhhDuring the movie Neat! Oh no, not the doggie! Yeah! -- ShhhAfter the movie Thanks Mommy.Yes, I liked it too. I loved the imagination shown with the unique animation style. It's not a $250 million creation, not Toy Story-realistic, nor is it a Shrek, nor even a Rugrats cartoon, but a new form of animation that extends the childish character without overwhelming the story. Kudos go to the team who created this one.The story was as entertaining as the cast. Patrick Stewart was such a shock as the voice of evil alien King Goobat, I'll never be able to watch Star Trek TNG the same way again! But Jimmy Neutron's dog Goddard was the real star, bringing a laugh at every appearance. If only Sony could make their robot dog Aibo half as versatile!I think this is a movie which will draw very polarized opinions, with few neutral comments. It has a distinct texture and feel, viewing the world through children's eyes. Jimmy Neutron is for kids, with a clear moral, a positive storyline appropriate for all ages, and a fast-paced progression through the simple plot. If you enjoyed the preview, you'll likely enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent for all ages","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my 5 1/2 year old son, and we  both laughed at the same things, some humor covers all age groups, go see it... I will a few more times. The special effect were wonderful, and the voices were great and fit very well. It was somewhat a knock off of Dexter's lab, but funny none the less. "},{"Title":"ANIMATION GENIUS- A Sheer Delight","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Jimmy Neutron was a delightful animated story with clever dialogue and right-on voice talent that could be appreciated by children AND ADULTS as well.  The moral message of the film was well suited for children of all ages.  The animation cinematography was very creative and the plot involved a joyful suspension of disbelief.  In a day when the majority of films are ill-suited for family consumption, it is a pleasure to see a movie that will provide pleasure for everyone!        "},{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this movie but I was very pleasantly surprised! It was very exciting, the story was funny and my 7 year old loved it.  It was a fun way to spend a few hours.  Probably most kids over 10 wouldn't enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Refreshing","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok, so maybe it might have been a cliche, and it's not the greatest movie in the world. But if anyone has noticed the string of bad movies that 2001 has had, you'll know that it's good to watch a G movie once in a while. As for the movie, I thought it was real cute and funny. Everyone in the theater I was in, was laughing the whole way through. Hell, even a grown man in his 30s was laughing for God sakes. Simply put, if you need a break from watching too many violent, nasty, rated R movies, or just want a good clean fun time, WATCH THIS MOVIE.  "},{"Title":"Good for the younger viewers","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my three youngest(13, 8, 6) to view this movie and well all had a good time.  The sound track was a big hit with my eight year-old.  Don't go looking for a fancy plot - this is typical Nickelodeon.  My two youngest gave it a 10; my 13 year-old gave it a 6 so plan accordingly.  Merry Christmas! "},{"Title":"This is no Shrek, it's not even a Monsters Inc.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Jimmy Neutron  Boy Genius  (4 out of 10) By C.J. CauleyJimmy Neutron is a boy genius whose adventures are lackluster to say the least.  This is a cutsie computer generated film that seems more cartoonish than anything.  This is no Shrek, it's not even a Monsters Inc.  The tots may enjoy themselves but parents will find themselves more entertained by their watches ticking away than Jimmy and his little friends.The plot is simple enough  all the parents are abducted by aliens and boy genius, Jimmy Neutron, is the only one with the brain power to get them back.  Maybe it was too simple.  The entire story was unimaginative and quite frankly, boring.  The key to a successful animated film is keeping the adults entertained as well as the children it's designed for.  In this, Jimmy Neutron  Boy Genius fails miserably.We're lead through a typical day in the life of Mr. Boy Wonder.  Being the shortest boy in his class, Jimmy takes a lot of ribbing from classmates. He gets a little too much grief from one girl in particular, Cindy Vortex. Jimmy is surrounded by his two best friends, Carl and Shane and his faithful mechanical dog, Goddard.  Carl is an overweight asthmatic and Shane is a little too obsessed with his favorite action figure, Ultra Lord.  Together with their classmates, they set out to take their parents back from the evil King Goobot and his idiot sidekick, Ooblar.This film couldn't even be saved by veteran actors, Patrick Stewart and Martin Short who voice King Goobot and Ooblar respectively.  Both were gobs of green goo with eyes, who traveled in hover vehicles.  Even the evil doers were unimaginative oafs.  The only thing I found remotely entertaining about Jimmy Neutron  Boy Genius was the soundtrack which included several '80s songs like She Blinded me with Science, We Got the Beat, and Kids in America.  Why?  I don't know.  But since there was nothing else to be entertained by, I didn't knock it.Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius lacks a lot of things.  Bite for one.  Walt Disney always knew that even children have to hate the bad guys.  He also knew how to create a plucky hero.  Jimmy just doesn't cut the mustard. Humor is another ingredient Jimmy Neutron is lacking.  One of the things that makes Disney movies so entertaining are the clever in-jokes for adults as well as the kiddie jokes that make the tots laugh out loud.  Jimmy Neutron was lacking both.  While your kids may get a few mild kicks out of it, you can only hoped to be kicked out of it.  "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie had me laughing for hours after I saw it!  The writing is excellent and the visual imagery is magnificent!  I can't wait to see it again.  I hope they make a sequel because our country needs more quality family entertainment.  Movies like Jimmy Neutron will put you in good spirits for the rest of the day. "},{"Title":"One Of My Top 5 Favorite Animated Films.","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" So I never Thought that a movie done by Nickelodeon could be great.In the late 90's to the early 2000's there were animated shorts about a boy genius whose inventions never quite work. Nickelodeon wanted to make these hit shorts into a TV Movie for the start of a television series. Paramount liked the concept so much that they decided to say, Screw That! Put it in theaters! OK that's not exactly what they said but it was released in theaters and got critical acclaim upon release.The film is about our title Character Jimmy Neutron voiced by Debi Derryberry who wants to go see the opening of the new theme park entitled Retroland. His parents will not let him go and in the middle of the night all of the parents get kidnapped.This is a great film with funny comedy, likable characters and terrific animation this is a must for all animation lovers.Rated G.1hr 22min/82min.****/**** "}{"Title":"great animated movie it is a funny movie","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" it is a great animated movie it is a funny movie you will enjoy this movie that kids and the parents will enjoy it is a movie for the whole family it is a sweet movie it is a heartwarming movie you will enjoy this movie it is one of the best animated movies ever i never saw a movie that is this good you will cry smile and laugh though this amazing movie if you like the adventures of Jimmy Neutron than you will like this movie it is a great movie that the whole family will enjoy i never saw a movie this good before it is a home run a knockout it is just one of the best movies ever you might think Jimmy Neutron is your regular kid but he is not he is a boy genius this is a hoot make it there number 1 movie in the whole world because it is a great movie it is a movie that you can not miss because it is one of the best movies you will say wow now that is a movie that we should watch again it is a wonderful movie you just have to see this movie to believe it i never saw a movie this good before have a great day "},{"Title":"Interesting.","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Jimmy NeutronBoy Genius is a great new film for the younger audiences. Its witty and humorous, and well enough for some older audiences. The whole plot is that Jimmy Neutron, a kid whose intelligence far exceeds anyone else in the entire town. He then sends out a message into space seeking for it to reach life out in the galaxy. As luck would have it, a group of aliens known as the eggyolkians have received this message and are now on there way to earth in order to capture the parents and feed them to their chicken god. Its entertaining and smart at the same time, the graphics are really nice for its time and the story line is a little far-fetched but its for the kids so bear with it. This movie has a good moral to as well as the kids learn to be careful what they wish for as they all begin to hate their parents. To their surprise they find that the parents have all vanished. But things take a turn for the worse as the children get out of hand and become sick from over eating and lack of care. They all go to the boy genius in hopes of him having a plan to find their parents. And so the adventure begins. Its a fun little treat for the kids and would keep them occupied for a while. Overall its an interesting film, if you got some younger people definitely give it a look see. Other than that you may not have the same kind of feel for it. But all and all I give it an 80% "},{"Title":"Dash it all people, I liked it!","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I will lying if I said it was the best animated movie ever, which it is not, but the worst? No, TitanicThe Animated Movie gets that dishonour. As far as Nickoloedean animated movies go, Jimmy NetronBoy Genius isn't as good as the Wild Thornberrys Movie which is in my opinion one of the most underrated animated movies ever, but it's better than Rugrats Go Wild though that was still pretty decent. I haven't seen the show in a good while, but I remembered liking it even if not an avid fan. So what about this film? I know there are people who dislike/hate this movie, but dash it all while I didn't love it I liked it. I thought it was a fun and entertaining, not to mention well animated film. Yes, with some dull spots in the plot and script and a slightly disappointing ending, but hey this is the sort of animated film where the pros outweigh the cons. Firstly it is beautifully animated, the backgrounds are audacious, the colours are lush and the character act and move convincingly. Secondly, the score is great, I love a good score in films and this succeeded in that department. Thirdly, while the plot is a little unoriginal and corny, I loved how fast it moved and how it drew me in. Fourthly, the voice cast is absolutely terrific, the standouts being Martin Short who perfectly conveys a comic approach to his approach, and Patrick Stewart who was absolutely brilliant as the lead villain. The voice actors are well served with what I thought was a sharply written script, and the characters I thought were likable. Overall, I liked it, not the best but not the worst. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"funny and colourful","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" this is a pretty decent cg animated movie from Nickelodeon.it's funny at times,has quite a bit of action and a mostly interest sustaining story.it's obviously geared towards kids,but adults will laugh at some of the jokes.it does have a few slow moments,but mostly it's pretty well paced.some of the character are a bit creepy looking,especially the teacher.but there's nothing that could be considered offensive.it's also very colourful,so the kids will love that aspect of it.most adults will be able watch it without falling asleep,but if not,the kids are perfectly safe watching it on their own.for me,Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Jimmy is A-OK","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Alright, so it was a long weekend and I rented several DVD's for the family, including JNBG. My 10 and 8 year olds love the show, I can tolerate it, sometimes. I must admit, though, I found the film to be better than I expected, always a good thing. First, the characters seemed to have a little more depth than they do on the show. Hugh is funnier and more interesting and even Sheen isn't quite the dolt he is on TV. Carl is still Carl. I found Ms. Fowl to be extra annoying. Still, it's more kiddie fare than it is family. There's less for adults to relate to than say, The Incredibles. While adults are important to the story, they aren't seen often. Jimmy's parents are more human and like real parents, though. As far as animation goes, it's a little too CGI, more like GameCube graphics. You can see how it improved over the years on TV. Overall, it's a pretty good movie. Another posting refers to it as a rainy day film, that's about right. I would recommend it, and that's coming from someone who grew up on Bullwinkle and other cartoons that relied more on cleverness and writing. "},{"Title":"Jimmy Neutron? Check. Boy? Check. Genius? Er...","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius was planned as a TV series (which has since taken to the air), but the movie came out first. This certainly helps explain why it fits so perfectly on the small screen, not least due to it playing like a cross between Dexter's Laboratory and Cubix.Dexter - er, James Isaac Neutron - is a little boy with a huge brain in the town of Retroville (a town so retro that the soundtrack includes versions of We Got The Beat and Kids in America) whose toaster satellite, launched to make contact with aliens, is more successful than he planned and brings an entire race of unfriendly aliens to Earth. And only one person can save us... step forward Jimmy Neutron.The movie's more concerned with entertaining children than catering to knowing adults, which is no bad thing; it's just not very exciting without any real attempts to be out of the ordinary in its plotting, characterisation or even in John Debney's Elfman-meets-David Newman score. BUT the movie gets better as it goes along, it's colourful, amusing and pacy, and Patrick Stewart's vocalisation of the king of the aliens is a campy treat; there are also some genuinely effective moments in the eighty or so minutes.In the end it's by no means a bad movie, but Nickelodeon can and has done better. Which doesn't mean I won't check out the series. "},{"Title":"Strictly for kids ...","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" ... from which it follows that it's a bad movie, period.Anyway do children REALLY enjoy fart-and-burp jokes?  I don't know, and there's probably no way of finding out, but I suspect not - at least, not in this context, not in what would otherwise be (for children) a pure escapist fantasy, not when they're watching it in a public cinema, with their parents sitting beside them.  The whole appeal of this kind of childish humour is that it's forbidden fruit.  If it's NOT forbidden fruit - if it's sanctioned - then it's simply boring, and (in the context of this kind of fantasy) it kills the mood.  At least, that's the kind of effect I suspect it would have had on me as a child.  It certainly has that effect on me as an adult.The animation is not simple or even (by, say, Pixar standards) particularly stylised.  It's just bad.  There's nothing clever or expressive or anything much about the way these overly-caricatured oblongs and ovals MOVE.  The title character is hard to take and neither he nor anyone else is real enough the adults are cardboard figures built to be contemplated by children, but the children are cardboard figures built to be contemplated by adults; as a result, we're constantly watching two sets of cardboard figures set at right angles to one another. "},{"Title":"Simple-minded, pandering junk.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Having seen The Powerpuff Girls Movie, I was suddenly reminded of this movie. I guess I might as well let it be known that I don't like Nicktoons. Nickelodeon used to have good stuff, but I've long since lost all respect for them. Jimmy Neutron is more of the same Nicktoon pandering garbage. Jimmy is whiny and unconvincing, and the only reason for any attachment with the audience is the fact that he's a geeky outcast that nobody loves. This makes him seem fake, like he's less of a character and more a bunch of stereotypes. The other characters are flat, two dimensional, stereotypical jokes. None of this would be too bad if the characters were bouncy and interesting. Unfortunately, they're not even half alive. Many of the characters are rude and unappealing. The villains, if you can call them that, are especially stupid. The humor is occasionally inventive, but many times it's boring, childish, and too straightforward. The message about the importance of your parents is simplistic, pandering, and crammed down your throat, rather than being worked into the movie cleverly. Even then, it's nearly drowned out by the segment that seemingly condones bad behavior. Late in the running, the movie tries to go for heart, but it feels forced and simplistic, sticks out like a sore thumb, and comes much too little too late. Finally, the animation, especially the background, has no sense of art or fun. Quite frankly, it's unimpressive. While one notch above the pathetically lousy Osmosis Jones and several notches above such fare as the Pokemon movies and the Rugrats movies, Jimmy Neutron is just one boring, sugary, pandering been there, done that fare. Even though the dvd is out, skip this dog of a movie and just go check out The Powerpuff Girls, which this movie is vastly inferior to. "},{"Title":"3.5 stars","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you've seen the previews, you have a pretty good idea of how the plot for this animated film works. The main character is a boy named Jimmy Neutron (his full name is James Isaac Neutron, but he is called Jimmy Nerdtron on more than one occasion) who is way smarter than any of his schoolmates or his parents. He has a robotic dog named Goddard and brings a shrink ray to school for show and tell. And part way through the film all of the parents are abducted by aliens.The preview looked entertaining, but the worry was that the rest of the film wouldn't hold up or the whole premise would get old. If this hadn't gotten nominated for a best animated feature film Oscar, I probably wouldn't have seeked out one of the last places it was playing on a Friday afternoon (in a theater with two other people, one of whom was my wife). The pleasant surprise was that it was great fun from beginning to end, and the soundtrack wasn't bad either (e.g., We Got the Beat by The Go-Go's). It isn't great cinema, but it's a great guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as detractors say, not as good as defenders wish","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If I have to chose between seeing a film because of its critical reputation or seeing it because it looks like fun, most of the time I'll take the fun one.  (Not having to chose at all would be the ideal option, but this isn't an ideal world.)  Since I'm an animation buff, I already had the Jimmy Neutron movie on my must-see list, and this week seemed like a good time to see it.  Yeah, it was fun.  The question is, was it ENOUGH fun?As befits a movie about a boy genius, JNBG shows off a lot of intelligence. There's a lot of wit, both visual (most of Jimmy's homemade gadgetry) and verbal (well, I liked the Blair Witch reference, anyway).  The characters and objects are animated like puppets, but it's senseless to complain about it since this was so obviously an artistic choice.  On the other hand, the outer-space sequences were genuinely wondrous.  (More about this later.)As for the characters and the plot, that's where things get sticky.  The story idea (aliens kidnap all the adults in Retroville, and while the kids have fun for a while they realize it's up to them to rescue their parents) is intriguing, but its execution feels like a genre exercise, giving the characters plot coupons rather than choices.  The characters themselves come off as either comic relief (Jimmy's friends Carl and Sheen) or plot functionaries (the villains, Jimmy's parents, and his nemesis-turned-ally Cindy Vortex), with only Jimmy himself showing much individuality.  (This is not intended as a criticism of the voice cast, by the way; everyone from Debi Derryberry on down does a fine job.)  Most of the character detailing occurs early on (Jimmy's preparations for school, Cindy's tai-chi-and-soda-pop exercises), but there's not enough of it.About those space visuals I noticed that two Hugo-winning artists, Bob Eggleton and Don Maitz, were credited as conceptual designers.  This indicates to me that more thought went into JNBG's visuals than its plot. (By the way, I don't mean to slight the other artists who worked on JNBG by singling out the two Hugo-winners, these are just names I know and I'm familiar with their work.  I suppose it's too late to hope for an Art of JNBG book by now, alas.)  The writers-director John A. Davis, plus Steve Oedekerk, David N. Weiss, and J. David Stern-have a substantial list of credits between them, but none of them appear to have much experience with either space movies or adventure movies.  Not that their conception of the movie was bad, but they let the plot swallow up the characters without giving much back in return.Still, even if JNBG is no Monsters Inc. or Shrek, it does compare favorably to Osmosis Jones and Atlantis.  However, if I haven't scared you off and you still want to see it, you might wait for its run in your local dollar theater.  "}{"Title":"I was forced to watch this.","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was forced to watch this crap with my school. God do I regret that. I did everything not to watch this unwatchable crap. But the teachers made me but now looking back I think of how stupid I was to even go to school that day. The only good nick toon there ever was, was The Ren and Stimpy show. Nick toons should go ahead and give up this crap sucks.Let's face it Nickelodeon can not compete with Cartoon Network. 1. Because the kid cartoons on Cartoon network are more popular. 2. They have adult swim for teenagers and adults. and three Nick toons banned one of the best cartoons ever made. So avoid Jimmy neutron with all you got because it SUCKS. I rate this movie a -10 our of 10. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the world's worst movie ever made. Nicoloden needs to stop making movies. You want to know why? Because they all stink. This is completely over-rated. It does not deserve a 6.0 rating on the IMDB. There were so many unfunny jokes that I don't understand why people thought they were hilarious. If you think this is bad you should watch the T.V show, which is just as bad as the movie. I wish Nicoloden would stop doing Jimmy Neutron stuff and start concentrating on there best shows like Spongebob and Fairly Odd Parents. Anyway I hope that I never get to see this movie for whatever reason ever again. 1/10. I wish I could just give it a 0 but IMDB doesn't have that rating to select.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time on this worthless piece of crud.","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Quite frankly, this movie couldn't get much worse, and altogether it stinks. The plot is very cliché and not very original. The characters will get on your nerves very quickly, especially Cindy and Shean. There is humor, but very little of it is even worth a chuckle. Most of it would probably only be funny to Nickelodeon-viewers. The only redeeming quality is that the animation is at it's finest; it can't get much better. However, seeing that that is the only good aspect, this unarguably ranks a D. I'm very surprised that it didn't go directly to DVD, or even be placed in the bottom 100. In conclusion, this movie is only to be seen by young children. No exceptions. Period. "},{"Title":"No use fixing this flop","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Jimmy Neutron may be a genius, but the people who made this movie sure aren't. This movie had never appealed to me, but I got free tickets to a sneak preview of it, and since I had nothing to do on the night of preview, I decided to go to it. How I wish I hadn't. One of the main problems with the film is the type of animation they decided to use. It reminded me of animation that's in several computer games, especially SimTheme Park. Sure, it would have suited a half-an-hour cartoon show, but not a full length movie! The characters are dull and unfunny. Jimmy Neutron, the title character, is cute at first, but then becomes annoying. Very annoying. The story itself is unoriginal and, well, lame. A boy genius who gets himself into many little adventures. Half the shows on The Cartoon Network are already about that! Young children may find it entertaining, but it's going to be an absolute pain for their parents to sit through. I wanted to walk out of the theater in the first 20 minutes of the film, but since my 5-year-old niece (who I took to the screening with me) seemed to be enjoying herself, I decided not to. But it turns out that she didn't enjoy it that much at all! When I asked her how she liked it she responded It was OK. In a year of many great animated films (such as Shrek, Atlantis, and Monsters, Inc.), this one is at the bottom of the cartoon barrel.  "},{"Title":"The TV show is better...","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Very average and quite boring CGI-cartoon tale about a whiz-kid who finds that his and his friends' parents have all been abducted by aliens. Martin Short has a small vocal role, but other than that the film is not particularly special. Worth seeing on a rainy Sunday, but the TV show is much more creative.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Ah...","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  JIMMY NEUTRON BOY GENIUS is a film that you expect to be another kids movie just like every other. But, this film is not just like every other. It is not very original in its idea, but original in the way it handles its idea. Not much in this film is based on reality. And the graphics look like they were designed by a third grader. And, other than that, the story takes a long time to get moving and is very hard to get into. The story takes so long setting itself up (and including stupid, unfunny, kid jokes) the movie makes itself dull. But, when things finally do get moving, it keeps you watching. It is creative in the aspect that it tried to be the next SHREK. But, if you want a movie you can watch with your family, as it is very hard to find one now-a-days, see JIMMY NEUTRON BOY GENIUS......3/5. "},{"Title":"Colorful and full of energy, but it's also forgettable and never takes off. ** (out of four)","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  JIMMY NEUTRON BOY GENIUS / (2001) ** (out of four)Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius is artificial energy. It's like drinking a pot of coffee or consuming sugary products-you get the instant buzz, but it wears off fast and the long term results are minimal. Instead, why not consume fruits and juices, which will give you sustained energy and healthy nutrients. Or, in this case, watch a movie that will entertain beyond the external exuberance.Jimmy Neutron is the sugary junk all kids love. With colorful images and high-spirited enthusiasm, what youngster would not like it? They will get a 82 minute thrill, but when the ending credits appear they will probably never think about the film again.The film does identify with kids well. We meet a boy genius, Jimmy Neutron, who has moronic parents and lots of homemade gadgets and gizmos. He is not the coolest kid on the block, but he is really smart and is kept company by a chubby friend and a mechanical dog.One day aliens abduct all the neighborhood parents. The kids jump for joy. Who needs those annoying, restrictive, old fogies who won't even let them go to concerts on school nights? But soon enough, Jimmy and the rest of the kids realize they need their parents, and it's up to Jimmy to lead the army of children to save their folks.Jimmy Neutron was first introduced in a 1995 animated short as Johnny Quasar. He's everything every kid wants to be creative, resourceful, genuine, and energetic. I might have enjoyed this character as a kid. But then again, I might have enjoyed this entire movie if I was10 years old. But I'm not. And I didn't.The movie is heavy on enthusiasm, color, spirit, imagination, and action, but it never puts those variables to use. It attempts to unitize its strengths on a comic level, but it lacks a punch line. Although there is plenty of silly material here-parents do the chicken dance, alien creatures do strange things, a massive chicken attacks the kids-but none of these things evoke laughs. The material is prime for comedy, but the movie never tells the joke.For instance, the kid's have an old granny, teacher with a very strange voice. At one point, this woman shrinks and becomes the target of a worm. This situation could be funny, but the ideas themselves are not. It's not enough to have a teacher with a strange voice-the movie needs to tell a joke about her strange voice. Laughs need perfect timing, and this movie's watch is off.And we don't really care about anything that happens in the film. Although, on an external level, the film will entertain younger viewers. This is the kind of movie that kids could watch once a week. Well, I guess that's one use for this movie. Parents, here's the thing you've been looking for to keep your kids occupied.  "},{"Title":"Stop making movies Nickelodeon!!!!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After seeing the sneak peek of this movie, all i can say is that this movie sucks. I mean Jimmy is cute at first, but by the end he is excrutiating to watch. The other characters are boring, and the plot is something that we've seen a million times on t.v. and movies. This movie stinks all together! Of course what should we expect from Nickelodeon who probably (and never will) don't realize they're lousy at making movies. Plus they also make a big deal out of their movies marketing them to death. But i think the situation was much more worse with this movie.Please Folks out there, don't take your kids to see this filth. It's a waste of good money as it is. Take them to Monsters Inc, or Harry Potter instead. Or just stay home and rent Shrek. Bottom line  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I had the opportunity to catch an advance screening of Jimmy Neutron last night and was more than happy I did. Not only is this movie a breath of fresh air style wise (I seriously dug the retro feel.) But it's also the first kids movie I've seen in a long time that didn't leave me looking at my watch waiting for it to end. The film never tries to fool you into thinking that it's anything more than a fun kids flick but it is so well done and sincere that most parents will enjoy it and find themselves laughing right along with their children. The animation was great in that great squash and stretch feel of the cartoons I grew up with. This is definetly one for parents that need some good, fun entertainment for the whole family who may be worried about the level of violence in that weekends other offering LOTR. The kids in the theater were I saw it really enjoyed themselves and so did I. "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Jimmy Neutron is a boy genius and way ahead of his friends, but when it comes to being cool, he's a little behind. All until one day when his parents, and parents all over Earth are kidnapped by aliens, it's up to him to lead all the children of the world to rescue their parents.If you're looking at this film, thinking that it's like any other children's film and only for children, you might be right or wrong. I guess it depends because I actually found this movie entertaining and light hearted. Yeah, some jokes are mainly for the kids but some are also funny for the older people.The animation, as you can tell, is not groundbreaking or great in any way but it did not bother me. You get use to it after a few minutes. The thing I like about the film is that it has some really creative and imaginative ideas on the whole story. The jokes are somewhere ranging to not-so-funny to laugh-out-loud-funny.Sure, you don't have to watch this film but if you would like to kill a few minutes on something fun and entertaining, give this movie a try. Maybe let your kids watch it with you and like any other animated movie, there's a moral, although it's subtle. "}{"Title":"Why Did The Academy Nominate This???","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Myself and many others I know were horrified upon finding out that Jimmy Neutron was nominated for the final spot on the best animated film award. While Waking Life was left out in the cold. Waking Life was original and thought-provoking, while Jimmy here was Nickelodeon selling more merchandise. Waking life was put together by animators working on store bought machines. Jimmy Neutron was put together by animators working on store bought machines, but with a 30 million on dollar budget.See how hollywood choses there award winners. Jimmy Neutron shouldn't be recomended to anyone who wants something different and intelligent. If you want a corperate movie for the brainless drone then my all means rent this one. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, the  worst movie ever!!!","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is the worst movie in the history of films!!! Nick really done it this time! I hate the show too! horribly done CGI animation, humor that is not a bit funny, UGH!! I hate this movie!!! The worst one!!! If you like cartoons go with the simpsons (series and movie) or family guy! I saw this in theaters and refused to buy it on DVD. DO NOT WATCH THIS!!! I wasted Money to see this. and I mean WASTED! This film is full of gags that don't make sense! If you like this, You're out of your mind! The director should be sued! He should be very very ashamed! the director is probably an 8 year old kid with down syndrome! Why does everybody like this! maybe all of you hardcore fans are 8 year old kids with down syndrome!The writers are also a bunch of 8 year old kids with down syndrome!Nick should have never made this movie! the animation also looks crappy!They should end the series! I advise you not to watch this! "},{"Title":"Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Not long after this film was finished they made a TV series of it, but this is what started it being known. If you think about it the cartoon is kind of copying the idea of Dexter's Laboratory, except the parents actually know he invents. Basically Jimmy Neutron is a boy genius who invents many cool and useful inventions for both himself and others. One day, all the parents of the town disappear and leave a note that they have gone on holiday. The kids at first love the town being empty, but they soon discover they have been kidnapped by aliens. Quite a good cartoon for kids, and some amusing moments, and I did watch some of the TV series. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Animated Feature. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Less than the sum of its parts","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I like animation, like kids movies, like sf, like goofiness, and I expected to like this film.  But though it looked good, it just never came together.  It's not horrible, it's just not anything I'd ever want to see again.The greatest flaw was that I found all the characters except Goddard merely annoying, leaving me with no one to root for.  But I also felt that the plot didn't make sense in its own terms.  The final confrontation with the aliens, for example -- why didn't Jimmy just use the same gizmo when rescuing the parents? why didn't the aliens just blast him into smithereens anyway?  However big he may be, surely that doesn't make him impervious to harm.  Still the plotting was the least of the problems I had with this film.  Overall, it just lacked charm. "},{"Title":"Nickelodeon! Stop making CG cartoons!","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I remember back in January 2002, when I saw the previews for Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius and it looked very good! I waited eight months and finally saw the movie, and I was so disappointed...The characters are some of the stupidest ever. Carl was fat, stupid and ugly and worships llamas (what the...?) and Sheen is mentally disturbed and worships his toys and treats them as gods, and of course Jimmy's the so called boy genius. (If he's such a genius, why didn't he just use his Hypno Beam seen in the short Ultra Lord Versus The Squirrels to hypnotize the Yolkeans or whatever the aliens were called?) And Jimmy's dad is stupid, and is a HUGE ripoff of Mr. Turner from The Fairly Oddparents (which I also pretty much hate). Miss Fowl is an ugly crow-faced screeching old hag. In fact, I'll now call her Crow Face.Anyway, the plot is funny in a stupid way. The parents of the kids are kidnapped by aliens and are being fed to a giant three-eyed chicken thing(?). Plus, the animation is awful as well. They have the entire bit of Jimmy's hair into one little piece of animation, with no detail whatsoever. The movie was just too episodic, meaning it seemed like a long episode of a TV show. As I had thought, there WAS a TV show made on it. Oh no. Did the plot of it have to be so similar to that of Dexter's Labrotary?The TV show is a slight improvement from the movie, with the same stupid characters I know and hate. When Pants Attack rivals any episode of Super Duper Sumos as the worst episode of a show ever. Honestly, hasn't Nick learned anything from it's awful CG cartoon  Butt-Ugly Martians? I'm just saying, Nickelodeon, stop making CG cartoons!!! They're awful!!! JN is a slight improvement over BUM. This movie should go on an episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000 or something. Now THAT would be good!This loser gets a 3/10. "},{"Title":"An excellent film...for a one year old who doesn't understand English!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am amazed that I was able to suffer through the one and a half hours of this...monstrosity of digital media. The movie, if it could be called such, is nothing but a compilation of cliches filled with ideas that some adults seem to believe pop children will love combined with underlying themes of high school (or rather, elementary) angst. The heavy-handed morals simply complete this entire farce of a children's film.The characters are flat - even for a cartoon. Each one is so stereotyped that they become caricatures. The plot can be summed up in a single sentence and the absurdity of it all - the notion that one can travel in space without specialized equipment, or overnight modify a three-ring circus into a space armada - insults even the 7 year old child who might have had the misfortune of seeing this...adult infantile film?That's right..this is mostly a movie, made by adults who have themselves not yet matured, about how they wished their lives might have been, crammed into the typical pop culture cage for palatability with the Hollywood executives.Please - save your sanity, and by no means attempt to view this so-called movie. "},{"Title":"Worst Animated Film of 2002","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My little brother dragged me along to see this film, I sat down, watched it, and I was bored silly. I don't see why Paramount finacied this atrocious film, The characters are un-interesting, the script is boring and the only thing which saves this film is the voices of Patrick Stewart and Martin Short, whom are the villians, damn. This is the result of a good idea poorly executed.This is a film which will enjoy the young people, for the rest, avoid it "},{"Title":"A boy with almost magical science","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Jimmy Neutron is a young boy who, like all animated Americans, lives in a middle class town with two parents, goes to school and gets great decadent yank food. Stop- and of course, he is a genius who can make a computer out of dust. The one BIG problem with this character is his abilities are more magical than scientific. The pathetic excuse of some 'big words' thrown in to confuse two year olds doesn't impress anyone. His inventions and ways of inventing them would be better suited to a slapstick badly made short, something like Those Scurvy Rascals, than a feature film, just drawing out the same tired joke. He is a genius. So what? That doesn't give him the power to make a new dimension out of bacon and eggs or fly to school in a rocket. The animation itself, as usual nowadays, is good, but more detail isn't necessary in a plot like this, so simple. The aliens are very, very, very simplified creatures, whose only purpose is to be the enemy, it seems. As usual situations get out of hand, and lessons are supposedly learnt. Just try telling that to him when he becomes President! "}]