[{"Title":"6.6/10? What absolute bull. Don't believe the low rating.","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"133 out of 158 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I heard bad things about this movie. I heard it wasn't well written and that Jim Carrey was a bad actor in it etc. DON'T YOU BELIEVE IT! It's not true. This movie is absolutely amazing. Jim Carrey did an excellent job at acting serious. He was 100% serious in this movie. He didn't try any facial expressions or noises he was 100% serious. He did an unforgettable role. He's even more serious than The Truman Show. The story is well put together and well written. Carrey losing his memory after a car crash in the river. The town people think he's someone that went to war and who has come back. Carrey must try to remember who he is. The people they know who he is are looking for him and will cause a lot of trouble if he doesn't find out quick. Fantastic, sweet and dramatic story. I recommend it to anyone. It is to be enjoyed by anyone. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey can play any role he wants!!!!","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"110 out of 141 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  By the end of this movie you will love the movies, love America, and love Jim Carrey. Every other movie staring Jim Carrey, no matter how serious, you could still see a little bit of Ace Ventura coming out. In this movie, it is a COMPLETE 180 degree performance. There were no outrageous facial expressions, gestures or body movements. It was just him, and he's awesome!The story was good too, of course. Peter Appleton (Jim) is a movie writer during the time of the communist witch-hunt and he gets black-listed, loses his memory and winds-up in this town in which he looks like a guy that was lost in the war. He adopts this life because he doesn't know any better and he falls in love there. When he realizes who he is and is called to testify on his own behalf, he realizes that he needs to stand up against the committee because, if a bully rises up, it's up to us all to beat them back down, no matter the cost.  "},{"Title":"I liked it too although I'm not usually a Jim Carey fan","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"76 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This DVD came in my last batch from Netflix, and I wondered why I had ever chosen it. Finally on a rainy Saturday, I put it on and was enchanted and moved. Jim Carey was great as were all the cast. The story seemed so very timely in light of recent national events. A land where dissenting voices are labeled unpatriotic and people of intellect and wide-ranging analysis are dismissed as elitist is positively frightening. The Majestic shows how we can get back to being our best selves and fulfill our promise as a nation that now seems so bleak to some of us. Caring about each other, our community, that is how we really come alive and make a difference. Building and striving for what is possible and making it safe to express and fulfill dreams gives me hope that we really can get back to where we belong if we'd only stop being so self-righteous, rude, and intolerant. I grew up in the party of Eisenhower but never felt that opposing ideas were unpatriotic. We need to be kinder to each other, recapture the courtesy of a lost era, be thoughtful and intellectually curious to be sure that we come up with the very best ideas and solutions we can in today's world. The Majestic is a wonderful reminder of what ordinary people can do when we come together and work to achieve something that uplifts a whole community. I heartily recommend it. "},{"Title":"Finally,a Jim Carrey movie I like.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"58 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have been a big fan of Jim Carrey since his In Living Color days. I always felt he had a bright future ahead of him,as talented as the man is.I very much looked forward to the man's film career beginning, but sadly,at least for me anyway,his big screen efforts have left a lot to be desired.Most of Carrey's films have been ridden with oversexed dialog and toilet humor.Finally,a much more toned down Carrey gives me something to smile about.His efforts in The Majestic are simply amazing. The slapstick humor is put aside,very delicately,and what we have is a very appealing fictional story,with Carrey making an excellent romantic and dramatic lead.If you go into the watching of this film looking for the outrageous hairdo of Ace Ventura,the hideous green mask,or anything of the like from his previous films,this will be a big disappointment to you,but if you go into it with an open mind about what he can accomplish dramatically,you will be most pleased.Things are looking up for Jim Carrey.Also,Martin Landau is great as always in a supporting role.Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Feel good","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"58 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a nice film. A movie that will make you laugh. I smiled most of the movie, and may be that was too long (146 minutes), I enjoyed it all. The story (a man with amnesia is seen as a long lost son in a small town) is not that special, but it has some nice things to avoid the bigger cliches. Jim Carrey is great as he was in The Truman Show. The movie is very well made, and in the end you will have a nice feeling about it. "},{"Title":"A film-writer accused of being a communist loses his memory in an auto accident and ends up in a small town where he is thought to be a missing-in-action World War II hero.","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite Jim Carey movies and I have watched it over and over. It really shows his versatility as an actor, not just a comic, and I loved the plot. An old fashioned movie with no bad language, sex or violence. It was extremely well cast and I really liked the old gentleman who lived in the basement of the theater and was so dignified. Every time I see him with his Dog I get a lump in my throat. Jim Carey plays such a caring role and his relationship with Harry is so warm and believable.The way he gets the town to rally around the Majestic is fun and wonderful. The woman who plays his lady-friend is beautiful and I wish I could see her in other movies. One of my favorite all time films. "},{"Title":"A throwback film in the Frank Capra style","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" That comment sums up the movie. If you happen to like Capra-esquire movies, you will adore The Majestic. If you think they are silly, sentimental and simplistic, you won't. It's just that simple.The movie plot runs on two levels. Jim Carrey, playing straight, is Peter Appleton, a B-movie screenwriter in 1951 Hollywood who is trying to break into A-pictures when he is accused of being a Communist by the House Un-American Activities Committee. As the witch hunt begins to unfold, he has a traffic accident that ends with him and his car falling into a river. He is carried out to sea only to be washed up on the beach below Lawson, California - with no memory of who he is, his past life, or how he got there.He is promptly mistaken for Luke Trimble, a local hero missing and presumed dead by the entire town, who like 62 other Lawson boys gave his life for his country in World War II. Lawson's sacrifice was recognized by President Roosevelt declaring the town a national monument and sending a bronze sculpture to commemorate its dead. However, the town's losses have caused Lawson to lose its heart and its way.The reappearance of 'Luke,' and Peter's actions taken in another man's shoes, revitalize the town beginning with Luke's father, Harry (Martin Landau, in a great role) and The Majestic, the theatre owned by the Trimbles, which Harry had closed in 1942 presumably on learning of Luke's death. While Adele, the doctor's daughter (and Luke's fiancée) tries to restore 'Luke's' memory, Peter and Harry refurbish and reopen The Majestic, and bring life back to the town. All is going well in 'Luke's' life... until the investigators for the HUAC show up with a subpoena a couple of days after Harry's death - on the day of Harry's funeral, in fact - and coincidentally after Peter's regaining his memory.Peter's agent also shows up. He has news. It has occurred to the HUAC that in Peter's case, perhaps they are mistaken; but they have to save face. All Peter, a man who has never had much in the way of personal convictions, has to do is stand up at an HUAC hearing in Los Angeles and read a prepared statement in which he abjures his membership in the Communist Party, apologizes for his error, promises to mend his ways and name names, and all will be forgiven. He'll get his life back. His A-list film, which the studio shelved, will go back into production. He'll get everything he ever wanted.But Peter has a problem. It's Luke, you see. He was not just a local hero. He was a Hero with a capital H, and Peter has been him for a few months, as Adele points out to him; and when Luke reaches out from the past to touch Peter, Peter is ready to listen.If you are a Capra fan, you can guess the ending and will approve. If you aren't, you'll say this is a mixture of schmaltz and hokum with just a dash of idealism and SO not realistic. And if you say that, I say you're wrong.Capra could have made this picture, with Jimmy Stewart as Peter/Luke, June Allyson as Adele, Edward Arnold as the head of the HUAC, and a whole bunch of MGM's old reliable character actors in the supporting roles. The movie is a throwback to a more innocent time when people still believed in heroes and dared to dream about more than just maintaining the status quo. On a scale of 1 to 10, I give it an 8; and I wish Carrey would make more movies like this. He's a better straight actor than he is given credit for. This is one of the movies you can tell will stand the test of time, and as such you should add it to your collection and your list to the 200 Greatest American Movies. "},{"Title":"Best Carey movie ever","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"32 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Like most people I know, I've seen Jim Carey preform in movies where the writers expected him to have a warped sense of humor or outlook on life, or a zany personality - or both. Sometimes I appreciated it, such as in Batman Forever or Bruce Almighty; other times I didn't, like when he preformed a butchered Grinch or when Ace Ventura made me sick with his humor. Still, whether I liked the movie's story, I admired the way his acting brought the crazies to life. The only exception I'd ever seen was him as the quiet, grown narrator in Simon Birch - until I found The Majestic. Here he doesn't have an outburst of anger, or a goofy-acting moment. He plays a Hollywood screenwriter, Peter - or Pete - Appleton, who thinks life is good and lives it normally. He's on the verge of making 1st-rate films, has an actress girlfriend, and is respected by all. But all that changes when he's blacklisted for attending a communist meeting, unawares, with his college girlfriend. He's now stripped of his girlfriend, who dumps him, and his career when his latest screenplay is examined by the FBI to see whether he is indeed a communist. Having too much to drink at the local bar, he makes the mistake of going out to drive afterward and crash-lands in a river, managing to escape the car but knocking his head so when discovered on the beach of Lawson the next morning by resident Stan Keller (James Whitmore, The Shawshank Redemption) he doesn't have a clue who he is or why he's there. The townspeople find him familiar, and shortly after he arrives former theater owner Harry Trimble (Martin Landau) is convinced that this is his son Luke, MIA almost a decade ago in WWII. The people, still grieving over the lost of 60 others, are delighted to welcome Luke home. He is content to live surrounded by people who admire him, Luke's girlfriend Adele, and work in the Majestic movie theater, unaware that he has both another life and a government agency waiting to catch up to him. This movie itself really is majestic. Someone I know who's always thought Carey overdid his roles saw this, and loved it and called him a good actor. I loved it myself. I thought it was odd how we barely met Pete's original girlfriend, who wasn't even shown breaking up with him, and the fact that the government suddenly had doubts that he was the communist spy they'd thought the day his trial was set, especially after they rejected his movie script as communist work and wrote his vehicle as belonging to a commie in the papers when it was found (and with the wallet picture found with it, why did nobody see its resemblance to Luke?). but I enjoyed everything about this anyway. This is by far the best Jim Carey movie I've seen. "},{"Title":"The Majestic Moose","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"39 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This installment from the Frank Darabont, director of Shawshank Redemption, The Green Mile and soon to come Fahrenheit 451, came back in 2001. This film highlights th actor Jim Carrey in a more serious role aside from his brilliance ion the realm of comedy. This film has a great message about standing up for what we believe in against any kind of oppression or tyranny even if it comes from our own government. This is told using a flavorful twist of identities, which of course is based primarily upon the old French Medieval legend- Return of Martin Guerre, and the growing concern of communism in the late 40's and early 50's. There are also some other historical aspects that need to be addressed. This movie came at the eve of 9-11, which led to a massive hysteria over, not Commies, but of Muslims. Interesting how the writer/director Darabont takes this lost character who takes another's identity and transforms him a hero by simply adding that Carrey had amnesia. He now has a great message to give to the courts and to the whole of mankind. At the time this movie came out, it seemed like the movie had little purpose and meaning. Watching it today, it has gained a new meaning and warning on our civilization(wasn't Darabont lucky). Unfortunately, I don't buy the argument and disagree. There are too many little details either missing or unlikely that hurt the story. Still, the originality, color, relationships, character development, angles, and plot development all draw to make this film highly enjoyable. This film receives 88.5 out of 100 points.  "},{"Title":"The serious side of Carrey","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I often wondered how Carrey would handle a drama and now I know. Totally enjoyed this trip through nostalgiatown as Carrey rejuvenated a town with his infectious personality. Heavily dramatic at times but always with an undercurrent of jollity running through it. I especially appreciated Carrey's dead on comments in the military graveyard.  "}{"Title":"Majestic-ally Well Done","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Majestic stars Jim Carrey as a Hollywood writer Peter Appleton who gets in a car crash and loses his memory. He is found in a town that has been hit hard by the war. The townspeople want so badly to have their boys back again, that they mistake Appleton for one of their soldiers.He comes back with a soldier's welcome and he believes for a while that he truly is their lost son. Eventually Appleton comes to grips that he is not who the people want him to be. This movie is well done by Frank Darabont (Shawshank Redemption/The Green Mile). Martin Landau was great as the grieving father of a lost son at war. This movie has some great moments and it has a well put together romance in it. Also, notice Matt Damon's voice is cameoed when reading the letter from the lost son. 8/10 "},{"Title":"old fashioned Kapra-Korn, well-done","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Carey is a man who literally re-defines himself in the mold of the small-town hero.  A recently black-listed Hollywood screenwriter, Carey, is leaving Tinseltown on a feel-sorry-for-yourself drunk drive and winds up washed up (literally and figuratively) on a beach having suffered amnesia. He's taken to a picturesque coastal California town and is mistaken (or is he?) for one of their boys lost in WWII.  And what a boy he was--handsome, caring, talented... and engaged to the local Drs. daughter.  Carey's character is confused and taken in by the love given by this town for their supposed returning war hero.  But is he that man?  Will he marry the girl he left behind?  Will the commie chasers from J. Edgar Hooverland find him and make him face the music?  Who is he, really!  This is a throw back to the Kapra-Korn of earlier years.  This is a movie that unabashedly creates a small town America that never was so polished and gleaming.  But despite the cornball-ity of the whole thing, the sincerity of Mr. Carey's acting along with a fine ensemble cast pulls it off.  It successfully explores the questions of just who are we, as inviduals and as a society?  Can we measure up to the ideals that we hold for ourselves and for our nation?  When is expediency--discretion, the better part of valor?  Is there a nobility in self-sacrifice and in the angels of our naive and better natures?  I like movies (and books and things) that ask questions and explore territory that is often neglected in this fast-cut, MTV film't age.  Sure it's corny. More than a bit unrealistic, but the sincerity of script and cast pulls it off. What is the greatest generation?  Any one where enough of us face the music... and dance. "},{"Title":"Majestic by name, majestic by nature.","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Carrey plays a Hollywood studio screenwriter, scripting B Movies when suddenly accused of being a communist in the Macarthy era of the 1950's. His contract and current picture are shelved until the situation is resolved, his girlfriend leaves him and Carrey hits the bottle.Following a drunken car accident, Carrey awakes as an amnesiac and is cared for by the citizens of a small town who believe him to be one of their own - a soldier lost during WWII who has now been miraculously returned to his loved ones. Carrey believes this and begins naively to become part of the town and forming relationships with those within and a clean slate.This film has a premise with a little bit of Martin Guerre, and a pinch of The Smallest Show on Earth (The Majestic of the title is a run down movie theatre which Carrey helps to restore). This is a suitably old fashioned picture that sits snugly in it's 1950's setting, with a good performance by Carrey in the lead. It doesn't quite reach the dizzy heights of Darabont's previous of Shawshank and Green Mile (could it be expected to?), and it does get a touch too much God Bless America! towards the end, but on the whole this is a beautifully, carefully crafted picture that takes its time to tell its story and is rewarding to watch. "},{"Title":"Tastes Like Saccharine","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can see why this movie appeals to so many people. It is an all-American feel-good movie with a simple message. The writers must have attended the Feel Good School of movies and then thrown in everything from their textbooks into the script.The movie is set in small-town USA during the 1950s. It inhabitants are all kind, good natured, hard working, community driven people. There is not a single person in this town who is capable of a bad thought. Luke's fiancée Adele is the sweet, pretty (blonde), smart and devoted girlfriend. Luke's father is a gentle old man filled with love for his son and his old movie theater. The mayor is a friendly, community oriented leader. Heck, even the concession stand lady is sweet and lovable. This is such an idyllic portrayal of a town that it comes across and completely unbelievable. This kind of town cannot possible exist on this Earth.The key poignant moments such as the opening of the theater, Luke's father's death, Adele's talk with Luke at the cemetery and the speech at the HUAC hearing are so over-dramatic it makes you want to wretch. The dialogue is taken straight out of the Big Book of American Clichés is is absolutely cringe-worthy. The movie's themes of freedom of speech, heroism and hope are so simplistic that I felt insulted. A 5 year old could process more complex thoughts.In addition, the freedom of speech theme comes completely out of nowhere and completely shifts the focus of the movie with 30 minutes to go. It seems like a last-minute add on, thrown in as an easy way to wrap the movie up. When confronting the HUAC in court, Jim Carey simply invokes the First Amendment, tells the committee to go stuff itself and then WALKS OUT of court to a standing ovation. What? Are you serious?! The scene was so ridiculous that I was practically on the floor laughing.This movie is a complete waste of time for anyone who likes a movie that provokes thought, any thought, even just a little one. If you like to be spoon-fed feel-good Americana, then this is the perfect movie for you. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful and moving","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pete Appleton is a blacklisted screenwriter in 1950s Hollywood. He arrives in Lawson (typical small town America) having lost his memory in an accident, and is mistakenly identified as Luke Trimble, the son of cinema owner Harry, and missing in action in the war 9 years earlier. Knowing no better, Peter accepts that he probably is Luke, and slips into Luke's life, starting with the town adopting him as a returning hero.Frank Darabont has produced a movie which stands shoulder to shoulder with The Green Mile and The Shawshank Redemption it is leisurely, gentle in many ways, always engaging, concerns the triumph of the spirit, and has some tremendously affecting, emotional moments.It is worth saying that the blacklisting issue is revisited - the audience always knows that Pete has been wrongly identified, and the discovery of his personal truth drives the last act - but the issues addressed are universal even though set during the McCarthy hearings.There is a large cast, all of whom are excellent. Jim Carrey's Pete is an absolutely straight part - it is unfortunate that one customarily needs to make that clear with regard to Carrey's films - but, to me, this film belongs to Martin Landau, with a performance which brought me to tears several times.I recommend this excellent film. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey in a Capra-esque film","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I admit I only saw this film recently, many years after its release. Unlike some early reviewers, I wasn't surprised that Jim Carrey could do a dramatic role, as I'd seen a very early film of his, Doin' Time on Maple Drive, as well as The Truman Show and Man in the Moon. This film is directed by Frank Darabont, who has directed two wonderful films I've seen - The Green Mile and Shawshank Redemption. Here he channels Frank Capra for a feel-good film that takes place in the 1950s. A blacklisted writer, Peter Appleton, gets drunk, has an accident, and washes up on the beach of a town called Lawson. And he can't remember a thing about who he is. In Lawson, he is mistaken for a World War II soldier believed dead, Luke Trimble, to whom he bears a resemblance. Luke's grief-stricken father Harry (Martin Landau), having not seen his son for some years, accepts Peter as Luke, and Peter believes that's his identity.The town is excited that Luke is back, and Harry decides to bring back his movie theater, the Majestic, to its former glory with Luke's help. Luke becomes involved with the town and its people; and Luke's old girlfriend Adele (Laurie Holden) is back on the scene. Little does Peter know, but the FBI is looking for him. One of his old films jogs his memory, and Peter realizes that he's not Luke after all. And he's wanted in Los Angeles to testify about whether or not he's a Communist.This is a beautifully done film, released three months after 9/1/2001 and very relevant when seen today. It's about standing up for what you believe in, the power of love, and what's really important in life. Jim Carrey is marvelous as an ambitious young man who finds his heart in Lawson; Martin Landau gives a magnificent performance as Harry, a man who finds a new lease on life.The Majestic stands as a symbol of a time when we walked into glamorous theaters to attend movies; when we sat wide-eyed in the dark; when films were more of a family affair; when life was more high touch than high tech; and when a person's principles and integrity were more important than anything else. It's good to be reminded of all of that once in a while. "},{"Title":"My favorite Jim Carrey movie","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I never thought of Jim Carrey as a romantic actor, but I fell in love with him after seeing 'The Majestic,' I wish he would make more of this kind of movie. Laurie Holden was perfect as his love interest. I had not seen her before this, but enjoyed her later in 'Bailey's Billions' with Dean Cain. I do enjoy films with an historical background, and I think 'The Majestic' introduces a new generation to the Hollywood Blacklist and the army-McCarthy hearings, which were aired on live TV when they were happening. I used to come home from school and follow all the principals at the time. Most folks don't know that the late Robert Kennedy was one of the attorneys working with Senator Joe McCarthy before McCarthy went too far in his accusations. Another thing I loved about this movie was the background music. I would like to have a soundtrack of it. I own the DVD of this movie and suggest you watch this movie if you get a chance. If you like Jim Carrey playing nutty characters, you might be disappointed. However, if you would like to see a warm, romantic Jim Carrey, you will love 'The Majestic.' "},{"Title":"Truly 'Majestic'!","Date":"29 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Frank Darabont's 2001 box office bomb, 'The Majestic' is truly 'Majestic' in terms of storytelling. Darabont, who made the most powerful film in recent-cinema history, 'The Shawshank Redemption', proves his caliber yet again.'The Majestic' is not about a mistaken identity, or McCarthyism of it's time. It's about sheer Magic, and freedom of speech. It redefines love, expectations and above-all pride in yourself. About a 151 minutes, the film unfolds with flourish. This truly is an under-rated film of the early 2000's! Darabont's direction is magical. A Master Storyteller! Michael Sloane's Screenplay is wonderful, with clap-worthy dialogue. David Tattersall's Cinematography is top-notch. Music by Mark Isham is good. Jim Page's editing is flawless.In the acting department, Jim Carrey excels. The Iconic Star delivers a subdued, controlled and memorable performance from start to end. Martin Landau is fantastic. Laurie Holden looks gorgeous throughout and delivers a likable performance. David Ogden Stiers does well. James Whitmore shines, as always. Bob Balaban is passable. Others lend able support.On the whole, 'The Majestic' is a classic. A winner all the way, a film that has it's heart at right place. From this writer, Two Big Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Hollywood Writer Amnesia Old Movie theater Glamour Patriotism The most underrated movie of the last 20 years","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Majestic (2001) Directed by Frank Darabont (Shawshank Redemption/Green Mile). In this Capra-like drama set during the 1950's Hollywood blacklist. A young, ambitious Hollywood screenwriter loses his job and his identity, only to find new courage, love and the power of conviction in the heart of a small town's life. Peter Appleton is a script writer during the 1950's who is suspected to be a Communist among many Hollywood film people (which is not true). Along the way, he gets into a freak car accident and suffers amnesia, then ends up in a small California town. There he lives in a rundown movie theater where he learns the magic of experiencing a movie in it. Soon, the Communist hunters find him and call him to testify before a Senate hearing committee. This is kind of sweet simplistic movie like Hollywood used to make in the great days of CinemaScope color films. It's that kind of big film. Great Colors Great Fantastic Cinematography and for me the main hook of the film was its relation to the old movie theater (the Majestic) where most of the movie takes place. So you get a mystery about a somewhat lost Hollywood writer. You get an old theater removed to its classic state. You get the films glorious colors and a great plot and story. The story is sentimental but who cares-it gave me total escape into a fictional world which I seldom get. This helps us recall the golden age of Hollywood and film. This could be Carrey's finest role. We see a more toned down Carrey giving all many smiles in this very appealing fictional story. Carrey makes an excellent romantic and dramatic lead. Carrey deserved an Oscar for his performance in the Majestic. The film is long at 146 minutes but it is a beautifully executed film. One of the most underrated films of the last 20 years. I would pay a lot of money to see this on the big screen. I can't believe I missed it in 2001. (I was not a great fan of the other kind of Jim Carrey movies) 5 Stars "},{"Title":"Just perfect, should be rated 10-)","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having seen the mediocre rating this film has garnered on here I began to watch it expecting nothing more than an average film and a forgettable way to spend a couple of hours on a Friday night, how wrong was I! What I ended up with was an absolute gem of a film, from the quietly emotional performance of Martin Landau to the very restrained yet brilliant portrayal offered by Jim Carrey, every actor was cast to perfection and as the film moves gently along it takes you on an ultimately uplifting journey. I would recommend this film to anyone who is bored of the constant stream of action blockbusters or who has never seen Jim Carrey do anything other than gurn his way through a film, if only more of his performances were laced with the kind of down to earth humanity he shows in this picture our perception of him as an actor would be quite different, my only complaint is that it took me 8 years to find this film but all good things come to those who wait I suppose-) Do yourselves a favour, find a copy of this film, open a bottle of wine and sit back with someone you care about and just let it wash over you like a soft breeze on a summers day. "}{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What can I say about this movie that it does not say for itself? I love this movie and I saw it in the theater and I have it on DVD. The story is really good and Jim Carey plays the part of Luke perfect. I am use to seeing him in silly comedies. But in this movie he plays two different people at once and its just one of those movies that I think every body likes. I think that all of our leaders in this country should watch the end of this movie. Every now and then a movie like this comes along and takes me by surprise. I recall when I saw it in the theater, I left the movie very happy with what I had just seen and I can't say that has happened to me in a long time. Really good films like this are rare. Plus the whole family can watch it and get behind it. "},{"Title":"A nostalgic trip into movie theatres of the past","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most people that I suggest this film to usually come back with Jim Carrey, I don't think so.  After all, Pet Detective, The Mask and shudder Dumb and Dumber don't leave the best taste in most peoples mouths.  But then there's The Truman Show, still a bit Jim Carreyish but an excellent film all the same.  In The Majestic Carrey shows that given the right vehicle he can indeed carry the show without the slapstick antics.  The movie itself is directed by Frank Darabont, the director of two of my personal favorites, The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile.  The film itself follows one man's loss of his identity; his subsequent adoption of another mans life and the eventual melding of the two into one better person.  The supporting cast in this film is amazing; it is very pleasant to watch a film in which you find not just one or two characters that you learn to love but easily a dozen! I cannot suggest this film too strongly; I enjoyed it from beginning to end.  "},{"Title":"This is the film I think Frank Capra would have made out of the story of The Return of Martin Guerre.","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic, with Jim Carrey, apparently got poor reviews when it was first released, and didn't do much box office. Nevertheless, my brother suggested I catch it, and I'm glad that I did. Had I still been an active film critic when it appeared (I've published over 200 reviews mostly from 1968-80, including many in the Boston Phoenix), I would have given it a very favorable review. Yes, it does get a bit sentimental and maybe too syrupy for some viewers. Maybe I'm just a sucker for a positive statement -- but I was thoroughly engrossed and moved.This is the film I think Frank Capra would have made out of the story of The Return of Martin Guerre (and remade as Sommersby). It has the small town sense of community so brilliantly created by Capra in It's a Wonderful Life, and the passion for justice and American idealism of Capra's Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. A review posted on this site sees the film as a vehicle for an attack on the McCarthy hearings and the infamous Hollywood blacklist. While the film certainly contains that element, I see the film as much more about the transformation of a character, and the political subplot is more a vehicle to accomplish that. It's a film that has yet to find its audience, but I hope it will succeed in doing so, just as It's A Wonderful Life was not fully appreciated as the masterpiece that it was until many years after its release.In addition to the strong and intriguing story of a man who suffers amnesia after an accident and finds himself thrust into another persona, the film also has marvelous cinematic qualities in the photography, music, and settings. Carrey's testimony at the committee hearing is breathtaking not only for its content, but for the way it is depicted on film.And the love story is also one that will make you weep.This is a very rich film, with multiple layers and meanings, and a true-blue wholesome core that has rarely been seen since Capra's days. I wholeheartedly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Leaves you without words and welcome tears","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not enough words to comment on this film. Put simply, Darabont still is and will be one of the greatest directors in history, and time will grant reason to this comment. Jim Carrey simply shows the GREAT actor he is, it was about time he received roles and direction like this, he is among the greatest now. The movie overall might be a little long, but not one scene, in my opinion, is wasted, it all builds up and simply could be considered as a work of art which would deserve a lot more recognition.Should become one of the 250 greatest films ever made.  "},{"Title":"The Majestic is truly one of the best movies I have watched.......","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Believe me when I say I have watched a lot of movies in my 30+ years. Working the shifts I do for the past 4 years, I rarely get to go to the movies.  I just ordered The Majestic on PPV, and I was so sorry I didn't get to see it on the big screen...  What a fantastic, wonderful, entertaining, romantic and emotional story it is.  I started crying soon after Peter gets his memory back, and I couldn't stop.  If you've seen the movie, you know what part I am talking about.  If you haven't seen it yet, PLEASE do yourself a favor and watch it!!! I didn't have any tissues, and I couldn't leave to get some, because I would miss some of the movie.  I now have a partially wet T-Shirt and I can't wait to buy this on both DVD & VHS.And I honestly can't say enough about Jim Carrey's performance... It was incredible.  What a great actor he truly is...  I can't wait to see him in more dramatic movie roles.  I will be sure to make the time to go to see him on the big screen.  I know it will be well worth it.  "},{"Title":"Finding hope","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although The Majestic is certainly a film with an agenda, it is more importantly a concert of finely tuned instruments playing a sensitive, moving composition that never fails to entertain. It hits all the right notes too, even if the mildly subversive elements of this cautionary tale tend to masquerade as delicious slices of wholesome American nostalgia.First, I should warn you this is NOT a Jim Carrey movie. If you want to see Rubberface goofing around making artless observations about bathroom habits then go watch Ace Ventura or The Mask, or something equally subhumorous...this is not the movie for you.Here, Carrey actually acts, and by the way, he's really good at it. It's 1951 and Jim Carrey finds himself through a series of accidents in a small southern California town with his memory wiped clean. But to the townspeople, his face seems strangely familiar. This town really isn't like every other small town though...from this place, 62 young men sacrificed their lives during the course of WWII, and the friends and family they left behind have been coping with an enormous loss ever since. Because this film was released after 9/11 it resonates in ways much more profound than the filmmakers could have intended. You feel the impact in the heart more than the head.In the best role of his career, Martin Landau takes one look at Jim Carrey, and sees his only son Luke, missing in action and presumed dead for 9 and a half years. Landau lives above the Majestic, the long neglected movie theater closed down after the war. In an act of tremendous optimism, he decides to reopen the Majestic, and the whole town comes out of their rut and pitches in with the restoration. Besides a father, Luke also discovers he had a beautiful fiancée (the very talented Laurie Holden, from The X-Files) and soon enough they rekindle a gentle courtship. Things seem to be shaping up nicely for Luke if in fact that's who he really is.And that's where the plot takes a turn for better or worse.We live in a fearful age, and the same is true in The Majestic...then and now there are lingering concerns about our liberty and freedom resting in the hands of the powerful and possibly corrupt. In the early 1950's the threat was communism, and the powerful were seated on the House UnAmerican Activities Committee. Without revealing too much about the conclusion, I will say that when Jim Carrey's character is subpoenaed to testify before the committee, he has to choose between his honor and what had been his life. These scenes in their audacity make this movie, and in spite of all the heavy drama, there are a few very funny moments.The Majestic is the summa theologica of Frank Darabont, the man responsible for good films such as The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile. He says that in Hollywood, the story has died. I don't think that is true though, at least in this case. Because this film is not a mournful requiem, it isn't the story of just a man, or a romance, or even a family. It's about us, about ordinary people living in dangerous times--like the townspeople in the film. And through a familiar-faced stranger they found a hero, and a hope they thought had died many years before.The question is, can we do the same? "},{"Title":"The Majestic is a fabulous, warm, feel good, family movie.","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a great early departure for Carrey. Getting away from his characteristic funny-man mystique, Carrey pulls off his dramatic very well, I think. Set in the 1950's days during the Marxist witch hunt in Hollywood, Carrey ends up in a small town where the locals think him to be a returned war hero, although he has no idea where he has come from because of a trauma wound to his head. Donned Luke by the locals, he goes through the motions, trying to remember his life and reclaim his position in the community. Luke struggles as he helps to rebuild the local theater named The Majestic which boosts the spirit of the town. Luke later begins to remember who he really is and struggles with how to break the truth to the small town, especially the girl that he has learned to love. The Majestic is a wonderful family movie for the whole family. Dealing with the loss and regain of life, love, and happiness, The Majestic is a movie about never losing hope and what a community can accomplish when they come together. What one man loses, he regains, while what one man regains, he later loses as well. There are some wonderful role reversals of several characters throughout the film. I really enjoyed how the town was so eager to turn against Luke as he was implicated by the incoming FBI agents, which is so characteristic of human nature. The politics of this historic event (blacklisted Marxists in Hollywood) in our past are clearly depicted. Especially as the newly self-identified Peter Appleton rises to the occasion and stands for what is right as he puts down his false-accusers. As the end of the movie comes full-circle, the viewer is left pondering on many of our current social issues. When bullies rise up, the rest of us have to beat them back down, whatever the cost says Luke, in a love letter to his girlfriend. The Majestic is a beautiful movie that I would recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"By far Jim Carrey's best movie...","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" he proved what a good actor he was in this role. As much as I enjoy The Truman Show his performance in The Majestic was much deeper and I think much more moving. Too bad it's not as recognized as his other roles in lesser movies. I also loved him in Earthgirls are Easy. It's a silly movie, but you get to look at Jeff Goldblum and Geena Davis so who cares how silly it is...lolOkay, I can't think of anything else to say, but I can't post this until I have enough lines of text, which is kind of annoying, but what can ya' do?;-) "},{"Title":"A feel good movie through and through","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very rarely do I enjoy a movie from start to finish, I'm always left with a nagging feeling that something just doesn't add up. The Majestic is not one of these films. I enjoyed it so much that I was compelled to write this review, so that others may read it and decide to watch it too. The acting is stunning - but it's the story and dialogue that grabs hold and pulls you in. In terms of the style and tone, Jim Carrey's performance is more along the lines of The Truman show, without the usual Jim Carrey comedy. If you are a Jim Carrey fan, you will love this, if you're not a Jim Carrey fan, you will LOVE this. 10 Stars. "},{"Title":"Finally A Great Movie","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I rented The Majestic.  We loved it.  We do not like a movies with special effects but no plot.  This movie was one of the best ones we have seen in years.  A great old fashioned, W.W. II era film, without the special effects that try to make up for a lousy movie.   The writer actually had a great plot.  We give it a 10 and an A plus. "}{"Title":"This is one of the best movies I've seen in a very long time.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find it very difficult to believe that this movie has not received better ratings.  I was completely captivated from the very beginning.  I was pleasantly surprised by Jim Carrey's performance and look forward to seeing him in more movies of this type.  This is one of the BEST films I have seen in a very long time.  A VERY ENTHUSIASTIC TWO THUMBS UP!!! "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review The Majestic (2001)","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a pity that this film did not make it to the local cinemas for public screening. I recall watching the trailer in a theatre, and was eagerly anticipating it, but it never came. The major reason was that after being convinced that Jim Carrey could do drama (The Truman Show preceded this), I couldn't wait for The Majestic to open its doors. Good thing I managed to get hold of the DVD at library@Esplanade.And I wasn't disappointed! Carrey plays Peter Appleton, a Hollywood screenwriter in the 50s who works for HHS Studios. His story has been filmed and is screening at the theatres, the love of the life is an actress casted in the movie, he has one more work in the pipeline, so everything seemed to be going for him. Until he was accused of being a Communist by Congress, and his entire love and work life turns upside down.While on a drunken stupor, Peter meets with an accident, loses his memory and ends up in the small town of Lawson, California. While he can't remember who he was, the entire town seemed to know him, as Luke Trimble, a teen who had served and died for his country in WWII. And many of the young lads of Lawson did. Harry Trimble (Martin Landau) couldn't believe his eyes when he sees Peter, thinking of him as his son, and so did everyone else in Lawson.They throw a hero's welcome for Peter/Luke, and celebrate his bringing of new hope to the sleepy town. Skeptical at first was Luke's childhood sweetheart Adele Stanton (Laurie Holden), but it's not before long she casts her doubts aside and falls for Peter/Luke all over again.The charm of a small town is heavily contrasted with that of Hollwood's, with everyone knowing everyone else in the former, to the coldness and business like manner of the latter. Everyone in Lawson experiences positive energy given Peter/Luke's presence, and Harry decides to refurbish and reopen The Majestic, the town's cinema, where he and Luke lives in the apartment above. Perhaps it is this sequence of restoration running in parallel with the rekindling romance between Peter/Luke and Adele that is my favourite in this movie.But like a fairy tale, all good things must come to an end, and Peter/Luke eventually rediscovered who he was when he chanced upon his own movie being screened at The Majestic. Soon enough, his old life catches up to him, and he's left to choose to fight the fight and stand up for what he believes in, or throw in the towel and his integrity along with it.It's kinda interesting to have real events, like WWII and the anti-communist movement in Hollywood frame the background of what essentially is a love story, and a story of discovering oneself. And to that, Carrey did no wrong. While Truman Show had shades of some comedy (probably as a cushion to the transition), The Majestic is all serious drama and romance, and credit to Carrey for successfully pulling it off. While Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind had been my movie of the year 2004, I seriously think that The Majestic could have been a contender of mine for 2001. The number of cameo voices in this movie is astounding too, from Matt Damon to Garry Marshall, Sydney Pollack and Rob Reiner too.So do yourself a favour, especially if you're not a Carrey fan. Your impression of him might change after you've seen him in this movie. It's filled with many touching moments in this 2 1/2hr movie, and brings back the splendour of a time where movies were a grand escape from the mundaneness of life. "},{"Title":"The very best movie, story and accompanying music........","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am an 83 year young man, who saw this movie, when it first came to the rental market and have seen it four times so far. Tonight, when I viewed it, when it got to the end,where Carry and Adele Stanton are kissing on the R.R. Station platform and the background music I Remember You with that Great introduction about Tahiti, I replayed it four times, as my feelings were so touched that I teared up all four times from sheer happiness. I can sincerely say that after all the movies that I have seen since 1927 and all the wonderful melodic music that I have heard and reheard, I can say that if I only had one chance to see a movies for the rest of my life and no others, I would name The Majestic as that movie........... "},{"Title":"I didn't get to see the whole movie but what I did see was super great!","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I wished now I would of been able to get in on the whole movie since the last hour and a half was so Good! And that is to say the least. I am a military veteran and with part of the movie being about the military, I really enjoyed it. Normally I am not a Jim Carrey fan, but this movie made him really a standout as an actor. He was made for that role. I really liked this movie and will add it to my personal movie gallery, for sure.I did notice that the railroad engine pulling the passenger cars was not of the time ere of the movie. I hate to say that since the movie was so good, but in the time era, the railroad engine should of been a steam engine since diesels did not take over until around the middle 1950s. You see, I use to be a railroad clerk for the Frisco Railway Company here in the Midwest and some of the old heads would talk about the good old days of steam and when the diesels took over. But that does not keep me from liking the movie, it is a super good movie. It kind of brought back some memories for me since I am 62 years old. Thank you. "},{"Title":"An amazing movie, so unique atmosphere","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Majestic impresses me every time I watch the movie. Only rare directors can make movies that has such an unique atmosphere as in The Majestic. It feels like you actually were in that small town of California yourself. I also liked the music and the work of actors. It's relieving to see Jim Carrey doing something else than twisting his face. And how charming Lauren Holden is! Also, it's easy to agree with The Majestic's criticism towards McCarthyism and limitations of free speech in the 50's. The Majestic is a must-see! "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of all the slapstick comedies that Jim Carry has done, the best film he has done in my opinion is a drama about family, courage, and honor. The Majestic was over looked in the theater, and that is a real shame because not too many movies deal with the kind of courage that it deals with broadly in this film. Jim Carrey really Shows great dramatic chops, Martin Landau is great as always, and should have gotten an Oscar nomination for his role, and Laurie Holden gives a great performance and holds her own with the boys. I did not think had it in him to play such a dramatic role but he prove me wrong. This is well worth a look and well worth you consiteration.See it.  "},{"Title":"Good job, Jim Carrey!","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Carrey did good in this not comedy role. He was very dramatic and lifelike which caught me by surprise. I think this movie will diversify Jim to the point where he'll be able to take any role and be able to run with it. He was just that good for a funny guy trying to do something else. The cast was good (especially the actor who played Harry Tremble) and there were many memorable moments and quotes throughout the picture. The time-frame in the movie was accurate as if I were an old documentary or hearing an old story from one of my relatives. It is a movie that you will leave feeling good on the inside. A good 4.5 out of 5 for this wonderfully done film. "},{"Title":"The Frank Darabont magic","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you liked 'Shaw shank' and 'Green Mile', you'll love this one! Frank Darabont uses his successful mix of nostalgia, friendship and wonderful music to enchant his audience.'The Majestic' is an old movie theatre, and the whole movie is made in the same way; the old way. James Stewart, Frank Capra, they all come to mind. The storyline is simple a guy loses his memories and finds a better life.Jim Carrey tries very hard to be as good as Tim Robbins in 'Shaw shank', and shows qualities you've never seen before. Martin Landau is perfectly cast as his father. Some of the Shaw shank cast - e.g. James Whitmore (Brooks), 83 years old  - have fine supporting roles, the Darabont fans will love this.And when you think the story is over, it actually just begins; Like in 'Mr Smith goes to Washington', Jim Carrey stands up for his rights, and thereby defies the jury that wants to burn him as a communist, as communists needed to be burned at that moment in time.As in all great Hollywood movies, happy endings are a must. So Frank Darabont gives us a very happy ending, with the aid of the wonderful music of Louis Armstrong. I Loved It !  "},{"Title":"Watch This Movie!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reading some of the other reviews of The Majestic I've come to the conclusion that if Frank Capra were making films today, they'd bomb.  I've seen most of Capra's films, and they are usually about idealism, decency, & innocence, with a huge helping of cornball thrown in...exactly what The Majestic has.  Today's audience demands umpteen car chases and gun fights with every film or they say its boring.  They want moronic sight gags and bathroom humor or they say its not funny.  They want over-the-top special effects that are totally unbelievable or they say its a waste of time. Well too bad.  This is one of my favorite all time films (right up there with The Quiet Man).  Sure it is not fast paced...and it is very corny at times...but it has one of the best casts I've seen in a long time...and it has what all those hit films of today often lack  HEART.  I love this film.  It is a keeper.  Like It's a Wonderful Life it will develop an audience as the years pass and others discover it.  I wish I had seen it in the theater, but I was put off by all the negative reviews.  Shame on me. Its too bad the film did not do well at the boxoffice, because now all we will get in the future is more stupid car chases, more crude bathroom humor, and more phony CGI special effects.  What we won't get is intelligent films that can make us cry, laugh, and root for the characters.  Thank you Mr. Carrey for this film.  You and the cast were terrific.  I will enjoy this film for many many years to come. "},{"Title":"Tells you how life should be","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If more people in real life would have an amnesia and could learn what's really important in life...what a gorgeous planet earth we could have... The Majestic!A really good title for this film.This film tells me how much inner value a person can have if he realises that money roles the world,but feelings role life and destiny. Jim Carrey plays a writer who has all he needs,a good job he (thinks)loves,money,a relationship ( an honest one,he thinks!),good (he believes)social life and friends..and than-out of nowhere,he loses all of it.In his lucky case he suffered from amnesia.But he still went for love and real happiness instead of (like today's..)money and the illusion of happiness after he found out who he really is. This film tells me how life should be...be happy whatever you do, be happy wherever you are and love whoever is around you...And to keep that;miss the big money if necessary! Jim Carrey played his role as writer Peter Appleton very believable (again).!!! "}{"Title":"Disappointing And Uninspired","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, when I saw James Whitmore in this film, I should have known that some sort of old school leftist message would be hammered into my head. The message was certainly hammered home, but even as propaganda this film fails miserably. The premise of the movie is intriguing, and I expected at least to be entertained, especially with the multi-talented Jim Carrey in the lead. Instead of fully developing the interesting concept of an old man thinking an amnesiac is his long-lost son, the script rapidly erodes into a miserable mess. Taking the predictable and heavy-handed position that commie witch hunts were wrong, we are asked to believe that a snarling band of un-American committee congressional members would hunt down a dangerous small theater owner and the lefty writer who appears to be his son. The scene portraying Carrey's appearance before the committee is absolutely ridiculous. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All of my life, I have watched and loved movies. There are very few that I can claim to dislike, and many that I claim to love. But, in all of my years of watching movies and going to theaters, never has a movie touched me like The Majestic did. In their promotional ads on television, Jim Carrey said that he wanted to be a part of something special, that would leave you to walk out of the theater and feel better about life. He succeeded. When the lights come up at the end of the film, you look around you at how beautiful things are. At least I did. The theater was stunning, and peaceful at the same time. Walking out into the fresh air makes you feel more alive. When I think back on the movie, the only thing that comes to mind, is 'Wow' and a smile.It is a beautiful film, and one that I will cherish, and as soon as possible, bring into my home as a permanent addition. "},{"Title":"I am so glad to find that I am not alone. This film is awesome!","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jim Carry is an amazingly talented actor. That being said I don't usually like his movies. I have never been real big in over-blown slap stick humor. But when I saw the previews for this picture wild horses couldn't keep me away. And I am so glad. I laughed, I cried, I cheered, what is a truly magnificent script, and a raft of the cream of character actors involved. Carry was way beyond anything he had ever done, and I liked this serious side of him. Martin Landau is one of Hollywoods very undervalued actors, and yet magnetic on the screen. David Ogden Stiers, Jeffrey De Munn, Bob Balaban and Ron Rifkin all great actors that so advanced this lovely story. And if you were not moved by this film then you really have a heart of stone, and lack humanity. Because it was not a Carry comedy it did poorly at the box office, but is earning its rightful place today. And for all the people that remember those grand old picture palaces of the art deco period, it is like going home again.A simple must see. "},{"Title":"Cheesy lines, horrible acting, ridiculous plot","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember seeing this movie with my parents as a child, I didn't remember too much about it other than that it was about a man who lost his memory and that my parents didn't particularly care for it. When it came on TV the other night my boyfriend and I decided to watch it. It started out as a seemingly legit story of a rich and successful couple living in 1950s Hollywood. However, the plot quickly twisted and absolute ridiculousness ensued.After an intense car crash on a bridge and being knocked out by a cement block, Jim Carey ended up being washed onto a beach near a small town (how he was drowned in the raging the river he fell into is beyond me).Then everyone in the town said he looked familiar and it wasn't long before a man claimed him to be his long lost war veteran son. (I donno about you but I can tell who my family members are by their walking style from a mile away, not to mention mannerisms, facial marks, etc). Anyways, this man claims that he is his son and soon everyone jumps on board, including his sons fiancé (who after 9 years is still unmarried).Next, ONE DAY AFTER HIS RETURN his father is like omg we're gonna re- open the theatre and its gonna be just like old times! No time to recuperate, or take in his new life and everything that's going on. It was just silly. Long story short, this film was full of cheesy lines and scenes, ridiculous acting, and unrealistic circumstances. It was awful. "},{"Title":"Majestic in it's own right","Date":"19 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard for me to give something a 10 out of 10 but this movie comes very close. Why it took me so long to see this movie is beyond me, but I am glad I finally got to watch a true great piece of cinema. Jim Carrey easily fills a dramatic role, much to most people's surprise. I can think of every movie I've seen him star in and, although most comedies, there were always glimmers of drama that he delivered that would draw in an audience. Think his speech about being a nobody in Dumb and Dumber, think of him telling his on screen son that he wasn't lying in Liar Liar. Think of The Truman Show, and tell me he doesn't have talent beyond comedy. Great supporting cast, of course with Martin Landau leading the front.Now something more personal, for this vet of the new war. I loved this piece because it sent a different message, if only I saw it. It showed that not only the people who actually fight in a war, are the heroes. It helped show that everyone involved in any war should be considered a hero. I personally was touched by the mentioning of the Bill of Rights and reminding people, even today, what soldiers like me and many others still fight for. "},{"Title":"The Jim Carrey I've been waiting for!","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I finally watched this (10 years after the fact) and now I wonder why I waited so long. I got the chance to show Ace Ventura to my hubby last week, after which we talked about how Jim Carrey's career has gone and how often he has had to redo the same stuff. The conversation brought this movie to mind and, thanks to Netflix, now I can be satisfied - Jim Carrey is truly the actor I was hoping he is. I caught glimpses in Liar, Liar, but it wasn't enough to let me see what I really wanted. The Truman Show was also really close. But The Majestic was my chance to see Jim Carrey really act, not just clown around. There was no sign of any previous characters, just Jim Carrey being an honest, down-to-earth kind of guy. Even in the lighthearted scenes, it was just Jim being light-hearted, not maniacal or ridiculous. I enjoyed his warm, generous and enjoyable performance... This is the man I want to see more of! "},{"Title":"In a place like this, the magic is all around you.","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the only serious role I've seen Jim Carrey play, and I think he did a fine job. His character Peter Appleton/Luke Trimble didn't have to rely on rubber faced mugging or sappy comedy to deliver an intriguing story set in the early 1950's. One of the interesting hooks the picture employs occurs about half way through. Right up until the time Doc Stanton (David Ogden Stiers) pulls Harry Trimble (Martin Landau) aside, I hadn't considered that Peter and Luke COULD have been the same person. Up till then, it seems like a full blown case of mistaken identity, with a whole town willing to accept the premise of a long lost son returning home.It's too bad so many reviewers on this board are too young to have grown up in the Fifties in small town America. I've read the criticism about how syrupy sweet the town of Lawson was portrayed and how it would have been impossible for a place like that to exist. Now I know as one mellows with age, hindsight takes on a special glimmer of nostalgia. The thing is, as a kid growing up in the Fifties, it felt a lot more like I was living in America than it does today. Fourth of July parades were special occasions, and American flags waved enthusiastically on sunny streets in the middle of town. I don't think it's such a bad idea to keep that memory alive, even if it takes a Jim Carrey movie to do it. "},{"Title":"Truly Magical","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the tradition of Frank Capra comes this enchanting fable, an ode to small town values, American ideals, and even movies themselves. I have long been a fan of Frank Capra, his movies are timeless, but often deemed old fashioned. Few even try to imitate him today. The director, Frank Durabont, for the most part succeeds. Some have complained that the film is too long. Others were unimpressed, perhaps because they had their standards too high (this film did come after the top notch films Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile). This film has a solid cast, Carrey gives a surprisingly earnest performance, and Martin Landau is heartbreaking. As an added bonus, we even get Bruce Campell in a small cameo. I really enjoyed this film, and I think if you go in with an open mind, you will too. My vote 7.5 out 10. "},{"Title":"Mr Smith Goes to Los Angeles","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an absolutely charming and heart warming movie. The story is well documented in other comments, so I won't duplicate that information.I will say that this movie gives you the same heart warming feeling of a host of old Jimmy Stewart movies, and some mystery thrown in to boot.Carrey is brilliant both in the role of the amnesiac who is being convinced that he is Luke Trimble, and the Hollywood writer who must confront the Senate Committee on Unamerican Activities.You'll wind up wishing you lived in the small California town that he came to know as home.The closing credits do a marvelous job of They Lived Happily Ever After.There is absolutely nothing objectionable in this movie to keep kids from watching it. Unless you are a complete sex and violence junkie, you will thoroughly appreciate this film. "},{"Title":"Don't know why everyone doesn't love it","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay now I see people giving this movie a 6 out of 10 and thats ridiculous. I'm not hear to tell you you're wrong but this movie is great. It captures life in a town rundown by the war and death if thats not enough to invoke at least the slightest pity from people please check your pulse. I know that you already know hes not Luke but who cares its about the hope and prosperity of a town being restored by the idea that their boys who died defending the country for. If thats not good enough the awesome speech displaying the rights of all Americans in words strewn with emotion by the great Mr. Carrey is. at least for me. I'm not always easy to impress but this movie is in my all time favorites for good. It makes me want this country be like it was in the 50s again. "}{"Title":"A Majestic Travesty","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Majestic is one of those few movies that somehow escape notice when it is released in theaters but everyone agrees after seeing that it's one of the great movies, even if they missed it in the theater. This slipped through the usual glut of Hollywood movies, but it has so many facets, so much to say, combined with a delightful story and a wonderful cast to fill it out.Most people expect certain things from the headliner of this story, Jim Carrey, who's made a career of physical comedy with such favorites as Ace Ventura Pet Detective and The Mask, but The Truman Show showed his true acting potential, giving a range that hasn't truly been seen yet. As Peter Appleton, the amnesiac protagonist, he comes across as genuine and real as he moves through the movie, avoiding the comedic talents Mr. Carrey's known for and playing it straight. Many agree that this might not be his best work but it certainly is up there.But while the lead actor is great in the role, Mr. Carrey couldn't have sold this if not for a story which, despite the time it's set in, still echoes in the present. Many of the themes are timeless, drawing the audience in despite the decades that have passed and the generation gap. Without any spoilers, the story starts with known events of the age, embroiling the protagonist in the insidiousness, forcing him to escape, and in this, he begins a journey to find a new self he didn't even know he needed. By the end of the movie, Mr. Appleton is different, changed, by the people he's met along the way. There's subtle humor and romance intertwined through the story, while also touching upon the sense of loss the country felt after World War II to acknowledge, nay, honor the sacrifices made in that war.The rest of the cast comes across believably in their roles and make you care for those you're meant to, to loathe those you should loathe. Laurie Holden, as the confident Adele, shines on screen, particularly when paired with Mr. Carrey. As Peter's would-be father Harry, Martin Landau brings the character to life, letting the viewer feel the pain Harry goes through, the joy when he thinks the son he lost in war has returned home, and the quiet peace in Harry's final scene. Without the support of a great cast, The Majestic wouldn't have worked.In all, watch this once with an open mind and no preconceptions of the actors in it or the type of movie it is. This is one movie I can never pass up watching, even though I know it by heart and have seen it hundreds of times already over the years. This is not Oscar material, but it's a simple, well-crafted movie nonetheless, harking back to a different time when story, not effects or controversy, was what drew people to the movies. "},{"Title":"Jazzy hit for folks who value freedom, hope, and the triumph of good vs. evil","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie.It has a cast of wonderful actors who you may recognize at a glance, but probably won't know by name. It has a enjoyable soundtrack, lots of lively jazz (up tempo with sparkling piano solos) and Paper Doll by the Mills Brothers plays at one point. The plot is solid; mainly feel good, though it makes a number of good points along the way. Bruce Campbell has a small cameo that is pretty fun. He plays a B-Grade actor in the movie with in a movie Sand Pirates of the Sahara.Back to the movie and why I liked it, nay loved it.It speaks to the basic good in humanity. Jim Carrey plays a man who has no idea who he is and an entire town takes him in with open arms. They are pretty sure they know who he is, but nothing is definite. What he represents might mean more to these people than who he ultimately, truly is. A small town that has lost too many of their young men to the Second World War, the possibility that they have gotten one of their boys back gives them hope, heart, comfort, joy. He rejuvenates the whole town.This movie also speaks to the darker sides of the human spirit.It's a fearful time, especially to be anyone working in Hollywood. Jim Carrey plays a the part of a screenwriter who is wrongly accused of being a Communist, during the days of the Hollywood Blacklisting. His life as a movie man is most certainly over, he is innocent of the charges but may end up in jail- his only hope is to give an oath to tell the truth and then lie, calling others in his industry (many of whom he's never even heard of) communists. He is given a boiler plate I __ name __ so that they may have the opportunity that I have had to purge myself of my communist ways. It's a witch-hunt atmosphere where fear feeds on itself and things can only get worse.Jim Carrey is great in the movie. His character knows initially who he is, then he has amnesia, then he rediscovers who he is- only to find out that he is no longer the man he thought he was. Throughout the movie he has picked up some admirable qualities, strength, courage, conviction, wisdom, passion. Doing what Luke (the man he at one point thought he was) would do, he takes a stand against fear mongering, stands up to a very biased Congress, speaks truth, asks questions, and resolves not to let the bullies of the world take over. That's not the America people like his amnesiac doppelganger fought to defend.It's a passionate picture and you can't help but to feel impassioned as you watch it. And at the end you feel good, like you have just won in a battle of good over evil. A very good movie. "},{"Title":"Jim Carreys the day","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I finally got to see this film tonight, long after its release, and as a big Jim Carrey fan, I was tremendously impressed with - and gratified by - his performance.  I love him as a comic, there's no question he's a genius in that department, but I'm always pleased to see him do something 'real' - something where he displays genuine emotion, honest feeling, and in The Majestic, he does this brilliantly.  Sure, the film is too long, too 'corny' in spots, blah blah blah, but ultimately the sheer force of Carrey's talent (and his deep commitment to the material) makes it work. Kudos as well to the great Martin Landau, who turns in yet another rich performance, giving his scenes with Carrey true poignancy. "},{"Title":"A Feel-Good Hit","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, it's about the importance of the first amendment, and our obligation to live up to the ideals for which so many fought and died, and the true nature of heroism.  Not to discount the value of those messages, this movie was also about other important things.  Such as the importance of having something to believe in, and the power of symbolism, even when the symbol isn't what it's perceived to be.I liked the movie a lot. I was willing to overlook the many cliches, especially since they made a point of poking fun at some of the very cliches employed.  The goal of the movie was to make me feel good about being in this great country, and to motivate me to stand up for the rights of others to believe whatever they need to.  It worked. "},{"Title":"Terrific movie","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think some people miss the point about this terrific movie, perhaps the best film I've seen Jim Carrey in. He certainly proves to me that he's an actor, not just a silly comedian.Here's the thing that most people miss about this movie when they complain about the whole mistaken identity deal. Folks, the point is, maybe the townspeople KNOWS Carrey isn't who they think he is, but because of the town's massive lost of boys during WWII, they NEEDED him to be Luke. And Carrey's character, who has lost everything, WANTED to be what they needed of him because that would mean he was wanted and needed. Don't you get it? The whole amnesia thing is IRRELEVENT because the truth is PEter probably never had amnesia. "},{"Title":"Frank Darabont's neat little period fable","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Darabont's latest The Majestic is a neat little period fable set during the Mc Carthy era.  The story concerns itself with the plight of a screenwriter in the 1950s, who is blacklisted after it is found that he attended a Communist meeting during his college days.  His world falls in, he has a car accident on a stormy night and his consequent amnesia leads to an identity crisis.  Having been washed up near a village far from his hometown, his is mistaken for someone who disappeared from that village and tries to rediscover a life for himself before eventually his past catches up with him.  He finally overcomes adversity and manages to remake a name for himself in the unforgiving Hollywood of the fifties. While obstensibly about the impact of the Mc Carthy era on the life of a prominent screenwriter, this is also a movie about the love of the movies, epitomised in 'The Majestic' movie theatre.  Rarely has a film captured so neatly the joy and the magic of the movies.  Some viewers may be reminded of scenes in Last Action Hero as I was. The Majestic is a film full of delights, not least the splendid period detail, which reminded me of Back to the Future.  The smalltown values are very much to the fore.  Jim Carrey evolves here as an actor and perhaps surpasses all his previous work. I first heard about The Majestic before it was released in 2001 as a guynow a friend I met from Mendocino who worked on the film told me about it when he came to Wexford on holidays.  I resolved to see it and it certainly didn't disappoint. This is a movie made the way they don't make them anymore and I don't think we'll see its like again for a long while.  As as film reviewer, I was really impressed and would give The Majestic three out of four stars. "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly Enjoyable","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have no complaints what so ever about this film.  It was really enjoyable to watch even though it did run a little long, nevertheless even now I wouldn't know what to cut or erase.  The pace was just right and it never went to fast or to slow.  Everybody was great, especially Jim Carey.  It took me a while not to picture him as Ace Ventura or the guy from The Mask, but as the movie went along, he became the character and he played it well.  The acting is great and at the end of watching this feel it will leave you with a feel-good-about-life sensation. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!!!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was by far Jim Carrey's best work in a dramatic role since The Truman Show and I personally think it's a crying shame that he was not at least nominated by the Academy for his efforts. Jim Carrey has shown an amazing amount of depth coming from Ace Ventura to Truman Burbank and The Majestic. Martin Landau was superb as Luke's father and David Ogden Steirs was also wonderful as Adele's father. This film should have won for writing directing and for Jim Carrey not to mention best picture. Easily the best film of 2001 and certainly of Jim Carrey's career to date. I give it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Upbeat film, makes you feel good.  Great performances.","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Terrific film.  Great story of finding self.  Positive, happy film; no violence or ugliness that is usually seen in today's films.  Great performances by Jim Carrey and Laurie Holden.  Film makes you feel good. Highly recommended for all age groups, although young ones may not understand Hollywood Black List (although a little history a good thing).  "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film by default. By no means have I been a Jim Carrey fan, save his moments as Fireman Bill. However, I was pleasantly surprised by his restrained performance in The Majestic. The story could have lapsed into the banality we've seen before about a man who loses his memory, but what raises it above the average slop is the film's absolutely wonderful relationship between Carrey and Landau. Completely unexpected. "}{"Title":"Predictable, emotionally loaded, over acted, perfect !!!","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warms the heart as a movie should, along the same lines to the classic movie Its A Wonderful Life' with Jimmy Stewart. I love them both for their sheer unadulterated efforts to make you feel good. You know more or less exactly where the movies going but the fun is to just let the feel good factor wash over you .... and pray you guess the right happy ending. This as expected ensues and leaves you wanting to hug up close with that someone special... "},{"Title":"Gentle, pleasant film of small US town in the early '50s","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed the film The Majestic, it created a good atmosphere of life in a small US town getting back on it's feet after World War 2 when many of it's young men were lost.The characters were well acted and typical of the time, with the Town Mayor, the Doctor, staff at the local Cafe/Diner.The restoration and the re-opening of the Majestic movie theater of the title will warm the hearts of lovers of picture palaces, although with TV coming along, (and shown in the film,) one wonders how long the Majestic survives after the film ends.The sub plot of the main character being suspected of communist activities bring back memories of how the US was so concerned about the communists at that time.Music is used a lot to create the atmosphere of 1951, although in one scene there is a dance to the music Cherry Pink and Apple Blossom White, I thought this was released in the late 50's or early 60's, but I am probably wrong.The camera work was very acceptable with a lot of use made of shots where the characters are in the background but face the camera and just add to the effect of the scene.The sound was fine, and the stereo balance good, the voices coming from different speakers during a scene where the main character is recollecting events in his head comes over well.It's a nice light print with well balance color. The film did not have bad language, sex or violence, so a pleasant change from much of what's showing these days and worth seeing.And there is a happy ending....... "},{"Title":"don't let these idiots deter you","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   Don't ever avoid renting or watching a movie because a few people who think they're god tell you too I hate these people. This movie wasn't boring it wasn't an action, sci-fi or horror movie it's just a drama. It's a nice little movie with a nice little story. I thought it was fairly original and the acting was great. Jim Carrey is one of the greatest actors of all time. Jim is a screen writer and gets black listed for being accused of being a communist so he gets drunk and takes a drive then ends up going off a bridge, hitting his head, losing his memory and winds up in a small town where everybody thinks they knew him before after missing from action in War 9 years ago. The whole communist thing clashing with him losing his memory with this small town didn't mix well but beyond that the movie is enjoyable and has some fun scenes like when Jim regains his memory or the piano part. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Carrey, truly one of the best!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've gotta say. This was a great movie, carried to the top by mr Jim Carrey. What a performance! He never stops to amaze me! I've always associated Carrey with twisted comedies and a body language with no alike and never thought i'd be able to beleive in him as a serious character. But i've flipped upside down, inside out. Now I can't see him as anything else but as a serious character! If he doesn't get recognized this time i don't know what will!/mike  "},{"Title":"I hate Jim Carrey but...","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have rarely liked Jim Carrey's comedies I find them dumb and patronising. However when I see him in serious stuff I think he has real talent as an actor. The Truman Show and this, The Majestic, are excellent movies with terrific performances from Carrey. He should do more. While Kapraesque (is there such a word?) the film stands up as its own take on life and identity, while taking a swipe at the McCarthy era.Martin Landau gives his usual solid performance and the script and music are both great. It surprised me that Carrey can maintain such good work while still doing rubbish for money (at least I hope that is why he does rubbish) you are in for a treat if you catch it on TV sometime. "},{"Title":"Loved it (spoilerish)","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  About as Capra-esque as it gets, but who cares? Great movie about film-writer Carrey who, after an accident, is mistaken for a war-hero. We all know which way it is going (with his true identity exposed and a nice 'Mr. Smith' kinda ending), but great fun all around. Another fine delivery from the director of The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile. 8/10. "},{"Title":"What a breath of fresh air!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic was such a breath of fresh air! It was a nice change to see a film that was not trying to keep up with the Joneses in the special effects, sex, or vulgar language categories. The Majestic was actually a film I didn't mind watching with my pre-teen daughter.This film was a light-hearted romance that actually brought tears to our eyes. Jim Carrey did an outstanding job of showing what a diverse actor he is...and the rest of the cast made you feel like you have known them for years.I give The Majestic two thumbs up!Thank you! "},{"Title":"Awfully corny.","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love Jim Carrey as an actor, and generally I think he is good at picking his roles. So I went into this hopeful. And when I first started watching this movie, I thought it looked promising.But gradually it just turned more and more cheesy and corny. At one point I honestly thought it was an elaborate parody of a feel-good film spiraling into the silly, but that was not the case. This film is so horribly sweet that if you're more than, probably 16 years old or something like that and somewhat critical when it comes to films, you won't be able to take this garbage seriously. It could probably have turned out to be a good film, but I guess they wanted to sweeten it up. It's obviously trying to be a new Shawshank Redemption, and it fails miserably. I would not recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"What a waste of money, talent and time","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Why is it so difficult to find a good movie? Well, part of the problem is the fact that the Hollywood film makers still underestimate their audience.Ironically, the same throwing together of plots and story lines which is shown at the beginning and the end of The Majestic is precisely what has happened here throw in a large dose of heart-felt drama, wonderful romance, characteristic characters with a heart of gold, a hero without unforgivable faults and the hook-handed odd one out who at the end belongs to the gold-hearted bunch after all. And an overly perfect ending... Now the only other thing we need is a Name (Carrey) and a politically correct theme (communist hunters can be mistaken). And let's see now if we can make some money out of it...The point of departure (a screenwriter loses his memory and ends up being the lost son of an entire village) could have evolved into an interesting movie, but ends up in boring and unbelievable predictability. An entire village with faultless loving people! A screenwriter whose supposed father has a cinema theatre! A guy who gives up film-making to work as a ticket seller! Yeah right "},{"Title":"Top top movie","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I hired this as it was the only non violent looking movie I had not seen, then when I got it home realised it had Jim Carrey in it. Oh well, it was raining, nothing else to do. Gave it a crack.What a top movie. Jim Carrey was nothing like he normally was. He could be another Tom Hanks if he tried. After all, Tom Hanks wasn't funny either.I watched it three times after each other, each time having a little cry. My housemates came home from various parts and I started it again. Even my housemate who normally only watched horror movies loved it. And I saw him cry too.Unreal movie. Don't let Jim Carrey turn you off. "}{"Title":"Mcarthyism, Miller, and the Constitution","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Majestic is an awesome movie, and though it comments on the Witch hunts of the 1950s, it kind of has some relevance today as well, especially when you look at how the constitutional rights of Americans are being stripped away in a similar way in the name of national security and hunting down Al Queda terrorists. In a similar way that Arthur Miller used the Salem witch hunts to make a political statement about Mcarthism in the 50s, this movie could be seen as using the Mcarthyism of the 50s to comment on the rights of Americans being stripped away today, even though it came out before this whole mess really started to come to the constitutional rights thing. "},{"Title":"Sappy piece of garbage","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a long-winded piece of garbage. No surprises, no sympathy  for the characters, highly unoriginal, too sappy. Jim Carrey is an underrated actor, but he was miscast in this role. Not worth renting or watching for free unless you don't value your time. "},{"Title":"One Of Jim's Best Movie","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With a very slow-paced and a lengthy, this movie will simply not be enjoying by everyone, but to me this is - Very Good Movie.Set in 1950's, a screen writer Peter Appleton (Jim Carry) accused of being a communize and at the same time met with car accident which lead him no memory of himself before being mistaken as the long lost son of a man in the small town.The story follows Jim and how he built relationship with the town (He now thought that he is Luke, a local soldier missing 9 years ago in the wars) and his dad and girlfriend to rebuilt The Majestic, the movie theater; while the police are trying to hunt him as thought he was communize fugitive.This movie Jim makes it damn good and damn convincing as you have seen him in The Truman Show that you wouldn't see any comedy side of him in here. Overall the movie has a great storyline and great acting which make it worthwhile to watch.Recommendation YES! Watch It.Rating 7.5/10 (Grade B) "},{"Title":"Doggedly, upliftingly, stylishly and cohesively self-believing, so carries all before it","Date":"8 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Interesting that Frank Darabont should direct this at-times almost overpowering homage to small-town America, given his Hungarian refugee background, albeit with residence in the USA from a very early age. One is put powerfully in mind of the limitless love and admiration for the British way put into wartime films by Hungarian Emeric Pressburger, in his superb film-making outings with Michael Powell. There is a lot of the Canterbury Tale or A Matter of Life and Death ambiance in The Majestic, even if the primary homage is apparently being paid to the films of Italian-born Frank Capra, another immigrant in America from childhood. Admittedly, this is (for once) a film that Darabont did not write as well as direct, the task in this case being for Michael Sloane. And, just to get it straight, this is not the romantic comedy it is unfortuitously described as, and it is a hundred times better than the box office flop some have written it off as.The line between proud and touching homage and pastiche is narrow indeed, so a great deal of what keeps this film (just) out of the latter category comes down to the acting. In the starring role, Jim Carrey (mostly) not being Jim Carrey is refreshing in the extreme, but the real plaudits go to some superb portrayals by older actors.Watching this film for the third time in my life now (and having largely forgotten the plot details), I was again stung into tears with the emotion of the Carrey character's rescue by and first encounters with - in fairly quick succession - the picturesque small town, and specifically its senior citizen Stan Keller (played by the late James Whitmore), veteran cinema-owner Harry Trimble (the co-starring Martin Landau, who puts in a marvellous performance), Doc Stanton (David Ogden Stiers) and Sheriff Coleman (Brent Briscoe), and then Mayor Ernie Cole (Jeffrey DeMunn). This description of the immediate setting up of our image of the town sounds traditional and structured to the point of syrupy cliché, but somehow avoids being so, and is instead a remarkably moving tribute to basic human kindness and decency. This is only added to as we meet up with black First World War veteran Emmett Smith (played by Gerry Black).This is a first contrast with the world Peter Appleton really inhabited prior to his accident and memory loss, in which the shallow and pointless razzmatazz and cynicism of Hollywood is just now coming into uncomfortable contact with the unpleasant, aggressive, intolerant hostility-cum-brutality of the Unamerican witch-hunts.But back out there in what the makers would like us to see as the true(r) USA - neither profit-oriented at the cost of reality, nor mean and politicised and paranoid at the cost of reality, there is Lawson, California, where our amnesiac hero finds himself washed up (literally). The town has a yawning gap in its age pyramid due to the War, which means that many key roles are played by people(mostly men whose sons, though with a few women whose boyfriends) have made the supreme sacrifice, or at least paid a very high price. They and their town are scarred, despite their patriotism and belief that the right thing has been done. Lawson is indeed a beautiful, comforting, secure, sedate place in which (nearly) everyone is kind, nearly all of the time, but part of the reason for that is underlying pain and loss, and there is a stagnation there that means that 1951 for these people - even when they do let their hair down - is much closer to Glen Miller than it is to Bill Haley.The arrival (or return) of Carrey's Luke Trimble doppleganger is the trigger for the town to move on, risky a step into the unknown as that may be. And here the film is far less formulaic than it might at first appear, thanks to its being suffused with tension. We the viewers know that, through absolutely no fault of his own, Appleton-Trimble has raised such high expectations among the townsfolk - so much hope and need has been pinned on him - that at any moment sad reality is likely to be returned to with a bump - and of course this is all the more the case given that he may well not even be the person he is taken to be. Luke's girlfriend (superbly played by the now-very-familiar Laurie Holden) is among those waiting to be convinced, but she falls back in love anyway, and this too is serene and touching, and all the more so when augmented by doting photographic touches, as well as the somewhat Aaron Copland-like score from Mark Isham.It would be a sad world indeed if we laughed or yawned at, or derided as ludicrously out-of-date and implausible, a world in which people help each other, fall in love, love their families, believe in things, believe in their country and are prepared to die - or suffer loss - in its name. And happily The Majestic does not encourage any of these negative responses, instead going into surprisingly sophisticated and multi-layered battle with meanness and cynicism and apathy, behind the shining suit of armour that is faith in decent small-town America. It is a pleasure and privilege and moving delight to see such well-crafted work so convinced of its own message, and the whole approach reaches a crescendo in an admirably chilling and authentic-looking Committee testimony scene. This film will surely not suit everybody, but some will be impressed and moved enough to have it change their lives at least a little. "},{"Title":"Majestic Film.","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Majestic (2001) Dir Frank Darabont / Cast Jim Carrey, Martin Landau, Laurie Holden, Bob Balaban, James Whitmore Memories of Hollywood glory days even within the midst of corruption. Jim Carrey plays a struggling filmmaker forced to testify in the House of the Un-American Activities due to suspected Communist communication. After being fired he rampages on alcohol before driving off a bridge. When found he is believed to be a war veteran figured for dead. Martin Landau plays his father who wishes to re-open a theatre called the Majestic. Quite predictable hinting on too many formula elements. Director Frank Darabont previously made The Shawshank Redemption, and here he delivers a credible 1950's setting. This is not the great film that the previously mentioned film is but it does hit the right notes with its historical points. Carrey is wonderfully sympathetic within a life that he accepts because others do. Landau is excellent as his father who aims to reconnect with his son and unify themselves through the theatre with others. Laurie Holden plays the love interest in a familiar role that never seems to elevate. Other roles are standard including Bob Balaban portraying an annoying finger pointer with the charge against Carrey and Communist activity. It is a reflection on a time when cinematic magic was truly something majestic. Score 8 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"long slow and sappy","Date":"23 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 1951. Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey) is a Hollywood B-movie script writer on the rise. He attended an antiwar meeting during college and he's blacklisted. His contract isn't renewed and his movie is pulled. He begs to testify in Congress willing to make up names for them. He wakes up with amnesia after a drunken crash. Stan Keller brings him to the quiet town of Lawson, California. Dr. Stanton (David Ogden Stiers) treats him seeing something familiar in him. Harry Trimble (Martin Landau) believes him to be his MIA son Luke. They live above the rundown theater The Majestic. Adele Stanton (Laurie Holden) was Luke's girlfriend. The town was devastated after losing sixty young men during the war. The first half is a slow ponderous story but I like the nice fable. I'm willing to accept it. It's got an old-fashion sentimental feel. However the movie just won't stop. It's long and slow already. The ending runs on. The hearing turns too preachy. It becomes very sappy. It turns from nicely sentimental to sickly sweet. "},{"Title":"Great patriotic and poignant movie","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jim Carrey did a fantastic and believable job in his dramatic role as screenwriter Peter Appleton in this touching patriotic movie. I love this movie and have watched it many times, often inviting friends to watch it. Invariably, they are also delighted and overwhelmed by Carrey's acting and that of the artfully performing supporting cast. I am disappointed that the reviews at the time of the movie came out were quite good but the box office earnings was poor. Perhaps the public did not believe that Jim Carrey could perform a movie role without being silly, comedic or vulgar. But he can, and he should have gotten much more recognition from Hollywood for his superb acting in this deserving cinematic effort without his usual tactics. I believe he did an Oscar performance. Jim, if you ever read this, please do more dramatic roles like this. Don't cheat the public from your talent and ability, which is to make us believe, make us enter into your world as we did in the world of Peter Appleton and Lawson, California. "},{"Title":"The whole movie was really majestic","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Frank Darabont ,This guy is just an awesome man .. I think that this movie without that man would be a normal romantic movie like many movies we see nowadays .. just empty and all about kissing nothing else but this movie is different .. the director made a comparison between the life you got when you live with people you love Or a town with people you all know and they really love you and on the other side , life is full of many complicated things and religious .. And there's a really powerful message that even bad things happen just for your own good .. you don't know what will happen .. Jim Carrey , He proved to me that he's an actor with high capacities and he's really good with the emotional scenes .. For those who feel that their tears are always ready to go out .. this man in that movie will make you cry till you die crying .. the screenplay was not bad .. but the whole movie is about frank  the director  he took a normal romantic film and made it an unforgettable picture with hard meanings . "},{"Title":"If Capra Had Written Martin Guerre Misses the Mark--A Bit Too Sacharine for Its Own Good","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Majestic is a throw-back to fantasy films of a by-gone era, such as those directed by Frank Capra and Henry Koster. Not only is the storyline itself similar to Hollywood fantasies of the late 1940's and 1950's, several scenes ring of old movies. Townspeople often gather in front of the main character and his girl. In some sense, the film is like a film within a film, in which the people of the small town are like the audience and the characters like those on stage. The Majestic is an inadvertent realization of the world is a stage, but unfortunately, as things play out, the central theme is applied like a bull-dozer. Only in a few scenes do we see the character exhibiting blood, sweat and tears, at the beginning and near the end. For much of the middle, he's almost too happy, things working out too well. There's an old adage of storytelling which says only trouble is interesting. Unfortunately, the trouble takes a back seat to the elation.The premise could have been concocted straight out of a Frank Capra screen concept. A b-movie screenwriter in 1950's Hollywood, Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey), is accused of secretly harboring communist sensibilities and therefore could be spying for the USSR. His career in film is essentially at an end, and he's being summoned to Washington to testify in front of the House Un-American Activities Committee. He then takes a trip with his only friend, a little stuffed monkey, up the California coast where he gets into a horrible accident on a bridge. He's washed up on the beach like a crew member of a ship lost at sea. An old man discovers him and helps him to the nearest town, an unassuming small town on the California coast called Lawson which rings similarly to Bedford Falls of It's a Wonderful Life. Appleton suffers from amnesia and doesn't who he is. He sees pictures in the town windows of local young men who fell overseas fighting in the Second World War.He happens into a local coffee shop where another elderly gentleman, Harry Trimble (Martin Landau), recognizes him. He's convinced it's his son, Luke Trimble, who went missing-in-action during the war. The local towns folk then reacquaint themselves with who they believe is their long lost soldier, one of the few who has returned. They decide to hold a large celebration in his honor. He even meets Adele Stanton (Laurie Holden) who had been Luke's fiancé. She is absolutely drop-dead gorgeous and yet for nearly a decade she's not hooked up with any other men, which is one of the many problems with the storyline.Since the town believes he's a hero, he goes along, even though some aspects don't seem right. Although he can't remember, there is a sense that Appleton knows that things aren't they way they should be, which is the best aspect of Carrey's performance. Trimble takes him home and shortly thereafter proposes they re-open the local movie theater which has laid dormant since the war. Of course the name of the theater is The Majestic, and it gives Appleton, now Luke Trimble, a new sense of purpose and direction. At the same time, the FBI has decided that Appleton must be a communist spy since his disappearance from Los Angeles.The central problem with this film is that it lacks balance. The joy and elation of the townspeople enjoying the return of their long-lost hero goes on for about as long as an endless dance sequence from a musical. Almost no one in the town questions that Luke Trimble is a war casualty and has returned in the flesh. I was expecting to see more doubt among some of the townspeople. I also wanted to see the darker sides of both characters, Appleton and Trimble, but both seem too perfect. Maybe a curse word from Appleton which would never have been on the lips of Trimble, or visa-versa. Only one towns-person is not happy to see Luke Trimble but not because he doubts it's really him but because he was a rival before the start of the war. It was also difficult to buy the idea that Adele Stanton was not with another man, and that when she started spending time with him, she thought something was wrong. It would have made more sense if she was with someone else and then flabbergasted concerning Luke's return.The script really needed several more rewrites with added confrontations between Carrey and doubters. Only one character reveals late in the film that he knew Trimble wasn't Trimble. Aside from him, the joy of most of the town upon celebrating the return of Luke was just a bit too saccharine and forced. When they begin to renovate the movie theater, the entire town pitches in to help. I half-expected them to start singing Kumabya. It reminded me of those old Bing Crosby movies where the cast is trying to solve a problem and everyone decides the solution is Hey fellas! Let's put on a show! Again I expecting a bit more blood regarding his return similar to the story of Martin Guerre, a returned war hero who turns out to be an impostor. Only when the FBI catch up with him is there some meat to the story again, but this occurrence is about 80% through the film. The film was 75% in the bliss department and only 25% in the trouble department with too many additives and preservatives. If trouble is what makes a story interesting, The Majestic needed to reverse the numbers. By film's end, Appleton/Trimble had not gone through hell and back to make me feel like he's really been through something which significantly causes him to change. In It's a Wonderful Life, George Bailey goes through hell to get back to heaven. With Appleton/Trimble, it was more like a short-cut. "},{"Title":"Whatever the case might be, 'The Majestic' is a brilliant homage to the films of the 1950s with enough heart and soul for two films.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Frank Darabont is one of the better filmmakers to ever grace the big screen, however his resume is fairly small. I'd like to think the reason is the whole quality, not quantity' angle, but as we saw with his stint on AMC's 'The Walking Dead', that's not always the case, meaning the studio execs have tried to intrude on almost every single one of his projects. That being said, Frank Darabont has given us some of the best films ever made, one in particular usually makes the #1 spot on many Best of All Time' lists.I'm of course talking about 'The Shawshank Redemption', which was based on a Stephen King short story. King and Darabont would go onto collaborate on a few other films in the future, including 'The Green Mile' and 'The Mist'. Time and time again, Darabont has shown us what true filmmaking is and can be. Darabont got his start writing 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors' and the 1988 version of 'The Blob'. Darabont then forged a good relationship with Steven Spielberg as he went on to write a bunch of the episodes of 'The Young Indiana Jones Chonicles'. He also re-worked the screenplays for 'Saving Private Ryan' and 'Minority Report' for Spielberg. Then, of course, 'Shawshank' and 'The Green Mile' hit big on all levels, winning awards and praise from virtually everyone.While the horror film 'The Mist' is not included in this set, which is a shame, Darabont's less popular film 'The Majestic' is. I firmly believe that 'The Majestic' is one of the most underrated films ever made. It's a beautiful piece of filmmaking with a genuine story, great characters, and an amazing performance from Jim Carrey, who doesn't do his usual comedy schtick, but delivers a very endearing and emotional performance of someone who is lost on multiple levels with his life. There are already perfect reviews of both 'The Shawshank Redemption' and 'The Green Mile' here, which you can click on their respective titles to view those reviews, but if you'd like to know my opinion on those, I believe they are both some of the best films ever made and continue to grow with each viewing.However, let's get back to 'The Majestic', which stars Jim Carrey, Martin Landau, Laurie Holden, and Bruce Campbell. Carrey plays a man named Lule Tremble, who is a writer for feature films in Hollywood in the 1950s, where every script is changed by old studio execs trying to make a quick buck. He heads out for a long drive after his script is changed to a virtually unrecognizable piece of fluff to clear his head, but ends up crashing his car along the coast. He wakes up with sever amnesia, where he can't remember a thing about who he is or his past life. It turns out that the town he crashed near had a guy who looked exactly the same as him and was feared dead in the war.Now everyone in town is trying to make this complete stranger remember his life in the town, when in fact he's never actually been. Soon enough, everyone in town try to put the pieces back together for Luke, including setting him up with his old flame and rebuilding an old movie theatre. The side story here, which I feel that bogged the film down a bit was that of the government trying to find Carrey's real character, who was a protester during a communist rally, which back in the 50s, was a serious crime. Jim Carrey delivers on of his first dramatic performances here as he struggles to try and fit in and make all the super sweet people of this small town happy, even though he is not the answer to their feared conclusions. It's not his fault, because he sincerely doesn't remember.This movie along with possible 'The Truman Show' were possibly the sole films where we realized that Carrey was more than just 'Ace Ventura', but rather an actor capable of much more. Darabont really nailed the time period of the 50s as well, giving us a very warm and almost fairy tale like ambiance with white picket fences and bold colorful period clothing. I think this film didn't do as well or hold the same value as the others is that most people didn't expect such a dramatic performance from Carrey nor such a dramatic film as a whole. I think people were expecting a straight out comedy, rather than an endearing film set in the 50s. Whatever the case might be, 'The Majestic' is a brilliant homage to the films of the 1950s with enough heart and soul for two films. "}{"Title":"The Majestic a Jewel and a testament to talents that make a fine movie","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So few movies tell a story we can relate to in way we have never seen. The Majestic tells the story of the post war era where the country had to rebuild after having lost many lives and spent many resources. In a small town where many of their sons were killed in the war one special one apparently returns. There are many of the baby boomers who can say they remember these story's and heard of the losses of their families. If you ever travel thru small towns in the mid west you will see the history of this. The markers, the graves, the remembrance of it all. The entire cast is amazing, well suited for every part and the ensemble pulls the whole show together. Jim Carey, Martin Landau pull you into the a world, a town, a people, a family. It is a gentle story, about the hearts and hopes of people. It is kindly told, the way a parent tells a bedtime story to a child. Slow, simple with great meaning. Perhaps this is why I really like it so much. It warms my heart, gives me hope and makes me realize that the really important things in our lives are each other. It reminds me of my Grandfather telling me a story. There is wonder, honesty, entertainment and a moral. This is on my 'Must See' list but going in you have to know what it is to appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Get Out Your Handkerchiefs.","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There's a little bit of something for everybody in this sentimental and heart-warming, thoroughly commercial, tale of the rise, fall, rise, fall, and rise again of Jim Carrey.It 1950 or so. Carrey is a screenwriter in Hollywood, now accused of being a communist by the House Unamerican Activities Committee because years ago he attended meetings of the Bread Instead of Bullets Club at UCLA, with the intention of being near a girl he was interested in.Blacklisted by the studio, he gets drunk, drives a long distance, has an accident, and loses his memory. He is thence taken by a sympathetic old chap to the nearest town -- I forget whether the name was Meadowville, Smallville, Homewood, Arcadia, Camelot, Brigadoon, or Cloud Cuckoo Land, but it's one of those idyllic towns that only exist in The Twilight Zone -- in which impossibly amiable people all mistake Carrey for a World War Two hero whose body was never discovered.The unwitting Carrey is fêted, re-introduced to his old girl friend, has love lavished on him by his ailing father, Martin Landau, and brings the bereaved community back to life, symbolized by the reopening of the defunct MAJESTIC THEATER, towards whose refurbishing the entire community has contributed. It's opening night is a blaze of color and neon glory. The awed mayor -- my co-star, Jeffrey DeMunn -- buys the first tickets.However, the obsessed hunters of HUAC are in hot pursuit and manage to track Carrey down, at which point his memory returns and he realizes he's not Luke, the winner of the CMH, but just another blacklisted screenwriter. The confrontation, the presentation of the subpoena, takes place just after Landau's funeral, in the town square, surrounded by residents. Man, the predators went out of their way for this commie on the lam. There are half a dozen big black Buicks with those vertical grills that look like fangs in an angry mouth. The hunters have some of the most misshapen faces ever committed to celluloid. The worst part is that Carrey, now believed to be a communist agent, is shunned by the community that loved him so much. Even his girl turns away in disgust.I said there was a bit of something for everyone. We can start with the popular tale of Martin Guerre, done and redone cinematically several times. Then there is Frank Capra and his adoring but fickle crowds. Then there is the letter from the REAL hero, who evidently did die in combat, that is a shameless rip off of a very moving letter that was written by a soldier to his wife. It's read aloud in, I think, Episode Two of Ken Burns' magnificent documentary on the Civil War.The climactic scene has Carrey called to testify before the HUAC. He's expected to read a statement, after a no-more-than due humiliation by the legislative Inquisition, confessing that, yes, he was a communist, but he apologizes -- and furthermore, here are the names of some other Reds I've known. This long, drawn-out courtroom scene ends appropriately with a rip off from Woody Allen's The Front. But, despite Carrey's pre-testimony anguish, there's never a doubt about what he will do.The beautiful photography of the little coastal town is impressive. My God, do I want to live there. Everyone friendly. Nice beach. No garbage in the streets. No graffiti. No minorities at all except one perceptive and sympathetic black usher at THE MAJESTIC THEATER.But the film is repulsive because it thinks that you and I are so stupid that we don't see the skull beneath the skin. The movie (and the wistful music) tugs at our heart strings. It brings tears to the eyes. But it does so as mechanically as peeling an onion does. It plays the audience like a funereal organ moaning out Oh, Mein Papa. The story is so desperate that it will do almost anything to get an emotional response. It will drop an entire story of an amnesic young man bringing a renewed spirit to a dispirited little town, and it will thrust us into a political story in which good is innocent Jim Carrey and evil are the guys with the heads straight out of an Ivan Albright painting.The performances are fine but they can't overcome this shoddy material. The writer, Michael Sloane, and the director, Frank Durabant, ought to be ashamed of themselves. The Twilight Zone did both kinds of stories better. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, wonderful movie","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Beautiful, wonderful movie. The whole movie has a 40s/50s feel to it, an innocence and warmth generally lacking from modern movies (the fact that it is set in the 50s helps). Shows more than just emotional depth, is an exploration of the importance of freedom of speech too.Sensitive, deft direction from Frank Darabont, whose previous two movies were The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile.Sensitive, convincing performance from Jim Carrey. While more known as a comedic actor, his dramatic performances are generally first-rate this, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, The Truman Show, Man on the Moon.Great supporting performances from Martin Landau, Bob Balaban and Laurie Holden, amongst others. "},{"Title":"That old amnesia plot strikes again! Star-vehicle for Jim Carrey force-feeds the audience good intentions","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Square and simple-minded filmmaking. Jim Carrey plays a troubled b-movie screenwriter in 1951 Hollywood who suffers amnesia after smacking his head following an auto accident; he washes ashore on a picture-postcard coastal town full of lovable codgers and all-American townsfolk who believe he's a soldier thought dead after the war (the fit and well-scrubbed Carrey hardly looks like a battle-scarred war veteran!). Director Frank Darabont, working from a dewy screenplay by Michael Sloane, aims for no higher ambition than tugging at viewers' heartstrings; the two men pile on the presumed-need for warm nostalgia in attempt to make an emotional connection with a mass audience, when actually just some smart writing would suffice. There isn't a wet cinematic cliché that Sloane doesn't try to resurrect, while Carrey (reeling it in for prestige) drifts through the picture staring at everyone's top shirt button. The film isn't a disaster--it's handsomely made, and the car crash is amusingly carried off--but it's a ringer, a substitute for Preston Sturges. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Why no acknowledgment of the Civil War soldier letter that was the source of part of this script?","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The letter the main character (voiced by Matt Damon) reads on a train ride back to LA near the end of the movie, which was supposedly written by the WWII character Luke to the female lead, Adele, is a near copy, sometimes verbatim, of one found by Ken Burns as he was researching his series, Civil War. I do not think this fact was acknowledge in the credits and I was disappointed. Hence, the 5 point rating here. This production team should know better. It is not copyrighted material, true, but is is easily found with the simplest search. (Google Sullivan Balou) and should have been acknowledged.Otherwise, I liked the movie even if it was a bit schmaltzy, It was a good effort to make some first amendment points. I only wish it had been a bigger hit with the young set. "},{"Title":"A great film about a dark time in US history (political witch hunts)","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, yes, this film was predictable at times. But that doesn't change the fact that film is pretty much a masterpiece, and by far Jim Carrey's best performance.Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey) is a Hollywood screenwriter who is accused of being a communist by the HUAC because of a club he attended in college as a horny young man to impress a chick. He is put on the blacklist and loses his job at the studio. He decides to go for a drive, but gets in an accident and ends up in the small town of Lawson, California, where he is mistaken for a long-lost war hero. During this ordeal, he eventually learns what it means to protect our freedoms as an American, and how you need to enjoy life every step of the way. Carrey proves in this film that he REALLY CAN act, and Martin Landau and Laurie Holden are great too. A great film you will love for its message, even if it does get a tad predictable at times.3.5/4 "},{"Title":"A hit in my book.","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems to me that Hollywood far too frequently fails to provide entertainers who arrive on its shores as comics and comedians with roles in which they can adequately display their innate acting ability. Such was the case with Steve Martin, and so it was with Jim Carrey until The Majestic came along. In this film, Carrey plays the principle character of what is obviously a very contrived script. But by playing the part straight, avoiding all the gestures and distorted facial expressions that have become his trademark, Carrey manages to turn what could have been a campy/cheesy parody of a Frank Capra file into a feel-good movie that is timely in its message, and makes me wish the world I currently live in were more like his character's world. Carrey's co-stars do an equally excellent job at convincing the audience to believe in their characters, as well. The timing of the climactic scene in which Carrey testifies before the Congressional committee investigating the Hollywood script writer seems nearly flawless to me, and in the end we learn the boy gets the girl and they live happily ever after. "},{"Title":"A true American film","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jim Carrey has always amused me with his quirky characters and how he can transform himself into silly but hilarious roles. But it wasn't until I saw this that I ever saw him as a serious actor. If this is the first Jim Carrey film that you see, you would never know that he is a comedian. Movies about the movie industry draw me in right away and this is no exception. A young Hollywood writer is off to a great start in his career. He has just written his first film, he has a movie star of a girlfriend, and life is good. However, that changes in a second when he is falsely accused of being a communist and as a result is fired from his job. After drinking too much, he goes for a drive and ends up falling from a bridge into a river. When he wakes, he is taken in by a nearby town who are mistaking him for a war veteran named Luke. His father is certain this is him and as a result they reopen a worn down movie theater that Luke was very fond of at one time. As I was watching, I couldn't help think of Luke, I am your father. Please excuse my inappropriate Star Wars reference. This has exactly what a movie should have strong characters, romance (without sex), suspense, and an excellent message. Sadly, this is one of the least known films in the careers of both director Frank Darabont. But I encourage you to see it and although quite long, I think you will get something out of it. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't see how anyone could not like this movie. I went to see it in the theater when it first came out and love it more every time I see it.They should make more movies like this instead of the crap they pump out. Its great to see several old school actors in this film that were around during the Hollywood blacklisting.Its a wholesome, family movie yet deals with some very serious matters. I can't believe movie critics were so harsh on this fine film. They should find another career. BTW Jim Carey is excellent in this movie. He should do more serious roles. "},{"Title":"A must see film on your bucket list...one of the best!!!","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is everything a good, brilliant film should be. Fantastic acting, great storyline with a strong back-bone. Jim Carrey is brilliant as the main character who is a victim of a 'witch hunt' after the 2nd World War believing him to be a Communist. The town of Lawson sees him arrive after an accident leaves him with amnesia. They believe him to be one of 'their lost' sons from the war. Jim Carrey's 'father' played by Martin Landau is superb and the chemistry between them in the movie is very moving. The pain, grief and pride shown by many of the characters in the film at the loss of 65 of 'their' young men during the war is so tangible it makes feel you are there; right there feeling the sorrow and remorse of what has happened. However, the relationships between the characters, their unresolved need to be able to move on with their lives and with the belief of their returning 'hero' Luke'. Jim Carrey's character Pete, is brilliantly played and scripted. Jeffrey DeMunn is honourable as the father who has lost two sons in the war and your empathy with him, again, is felt in every part of the film. Lauri Holden plays the 'love' interest in the film as the girlfriend of the hero 'Luke'. This film is not sloppy, sentimental nor 'wet'. Its 'true grit' of what a town like Lawson must have felt after the war. It is also rather poignant there are town's in Britian today who will also feel the same. One to watch and one to remember. "}{"Title":"Carrey can play basically anything.","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think Jim Carrey is a much more diverse actor than he's given credit for. He's A comedian yes, but he's also good for both biopics (Man on the Moon) and dramas (The Truman Show and others). (I'm still waiting for Mission Impossible 8 with Carrey as Tom Cruise.) I remember watching this when I was younger, and I only really remembered the movie theater part, but this movie is amazingly more complex than I recalled. Laurie Holden is beautiful as Adele and while I didn't much like the love triangle going on with a dead guy, I'll let it slide this one time. Some of the other cityfolk were great, like James Whitmore and Brent Biscoe. Matt Damon did the voice of Luke Trimble and I kinda fangirl'd a little at that. (Bruce Campbell and Cliff Curtis in the film-in-a-film were awesome.) Overall it's a very solid film, even though it was really long.EDIT Now that I think about it, they didn't really explain how he was so good at piano. / "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey In This Capra-Inspired Drama","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Frank Darabont created this Frank Capra-inspired drama based on a screenplay by his friend and one-time schoolmate Michael Sloane.The Majestic is a film that features Jim Carrey and Laurie Holden. Also,it features a supporting cast of Martin Landau, David Ogden Stiers, James Whitmore, Bob Balaban, Jeffrey DeMunn, and Hal Holbrook.It is a story about Pete Appleton, a screenwriter in the Hollywood of the 1950s. Pete's on top of the world with his first motion picture Sand Pirates of the Sahara just released to theaters and his romance with a beautiful starlet heating up. However, his triumph turns to dismay when he's called before the commie-hunting House Un-American Activities Committee and advised by a studio lawyer and his agent to play ball with the witch hunters. Depressed by the film industry's weak-kneed reaction to the hearings, Pete gets drunk and drives his car north along the California coast, where he crashes from a bridge and wakes up on shore the next morning suffering from amnesia. Wandering into the nearby small town of Lawson, Pete is mistaken for Luke Trimble, a lost hero of World War II who, like most of the area's young men, never returned from the war a decade earlier. Luke has soon reunited with both his father and his one-time girlfriend, and finds that his reappearance has given the citizens of Lawson an emotional boost that's sorely needed. When he refurbishes and reopens his family's decrepit movie theater, the Majestic, Luke revitalizes Lawson just as his memory of his true identity begins to reassert itself. Jim Carrey gets the best role of his own career and plays it with tenderness, valor, bravery and deeply moving conviction. He is positively captivating.This is a kind of uplifting movie that one many would enjoy despite the fact that it is it's too manufactured and deliberate to be persuasive.It could have easily been trimmed to get it under a more reasonable two hours, but this is otherwise a very enjoyable film that was overlooked when it was first released. "},{"Title":"easy going, warm hearted, moving above all else....touching","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I hadn't heard of this film before I bought it but reading a couple of the reviews on here I decided to give it ago but didn't expect much.Overall I found this movie to be easy watching, touching and moving. Its very straight forward and an easy to enjoy film with a plot that keeps you enthralled. The characters are warm hearted espessially Martin Landau who for me is excellent, he gives a gentle performance and I found him effortless. Jim Carrey proves he can be subtle and in this movie he really allows himself to open up and show a different heart felt side to him that's really inspired and moving.My only flaw is that at times it feels to mushy and the characters are to light hearted which is a little bit sickly sweet but this doesn't takeaway from the fact that this is a excellent, inspired film... "},{"Title":"Better than most carrey","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" By the end of this movie you will love the movies, love America, and love Jim Carrey. Every other movie staring Jim Carrey, no matter how serious, you could still see a little bit of Ace Ventura coming out. In this movie, it is a COMPLETE 180 degree performance. There were no outrageous facial expressions, gestures or body movements. It was just him, and he's awesome! The story was good too, of course. Peter Appleton (Jim) is a movie writer during the time of the communist witch-hunt and he gets black-listed, loses his memory and winds-up in this town in which he looks like a guy that was lost in the war. He adopts this life because he doesn't know any better and he falls in love there. When he realizes who he is and is called to testify on his own behalf, he realizes that he needs to stand up against the committee because, if a bully rises up, it's up to us all to beat them back down, no matter the cost. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had thought about watching The Majestic before, but I had heard it wasn't very good. I let that scare me away from watching it for a long time. Tonight, I finally got around to watching it on Netflix. It was available on instant stream, so I figured I'd go ahead and give it a shot.I feel a little ambivalent about the movie...I think it was better than a lot of people give it credit for, but still not as good as I might've hoped. I really liked the beginning, I felt almost as if I were watching a novel come to life. It had a very slow pace that I kind of enjoyed, but then it felt like the movie was in a big hurry to end itself toward the latter half of the film.How did I come to that conclusion? Well, the same night that Peter/Luke (Jim Carrey) figures out who he really is, is also the same night his father Harry (Martin Landau) has a fatal heart attack. Then, at Harry's funeral, Carrey's character confesses to his love interest, Adele (Laurie Holden), that he is not the man she thinks he is. Right after that happens, the government baddies show up to take him away. It's just a little too bing, bang, boom to me. The movie takes such a long time to build itself up, only to let itself end far too rapidly.I thought the performances were very good, and Carrey does surprisingly well, too...Although, I saw him slip into his shtick a few times, for the most part, he stays pretty true to his character.Overall, I wouldn't say The Majestic was a bad movie, but I wouldn't go so far as to say it was great, either. I think I'd feel comfortable in saying it was pretty good. I don't know if I'd necessarily feel comfortable in recommending the movie to everyone, but I think that as long as you don't mind seeing a predictable happy ending, you won't mind watching this movie. For me, I felt a little conflicted about the ending. I didn't want to see what would've been more likely to happen, which likely would've been too dark and depressing, but I also felt like I was feeding into the whole audiences love a happy ending thing, which is fine, except for when a happy ending isn't always what a movie calls for. I'm not saying The Majestic fits in this category, but perhaps an ending that wasn't too dark and depressing nor the best case scenario also known as the Happily Ever After ending could've been envisioned and perhaps utilized more effectively here. Although, in all fairness to the movie, I'd rather see the happy ending they chose than the bleak one they could've gone with, so I do think they made the right choice. I just wonder if maybe a third option could've been thought up? "},{"Title":"Four good stories and a miscast hero","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The important thing is that I enjoyed this film. It has 4 entertaining stories of unequal qualities that involve the character played by Jim Carey.The first story is about a screen writer whose unimpressive work is a B-movie that has a swashbuckling hero sword-fighting with a stereotypical villain to rescue a damsel in distress. It's the 1950's and our writer loses his job in the anti-communist witch hunt. There is no real character development in this sub-plot. It is just there to set up a memorable film-within-the-film and to introduce the subject of the Hollywood blacklist.The second story tells of the screen writer losing his memory and then ostensibly rediscovering his identity as Luke, the long lost war hero of a small American town. This is the major part of the film and it is very well worked. The supporting characters are more than mere walk-ons. There are strong parts for Luke's father, the town mayor, the doctor and his daughter who was Luke's fiancé, and a jealous rival. Jim Carey only needs to play surprised at their revelations which seem consistent and in their own way convincing. The utopia of Luke's hero status is reminiscent of the utopia of the film Pleasantville, and just like in that film it will be shattered.The third story is about restoring the town's derelict cinema, the Majestic of the title. It is an obvious nod to the classic Cinema Paradiso but without the magic of that film's pathos. Luke's memory loss was the foundation for the second story but it drains the third story of drama.The fourth and last story has great potential but it shows up the film's weakness which is its miscasting of Jim Carey. The first story provided the set-up for two arrivals the B-movie arrives at the cinema and triggers Luke's lost memory of who he is, and the witch hunters from Washington arrive on cue. In classic Hollywood style there is a confrontation in court between the power figures and the lone individual with right on his side. This too has shades of Pleasantville except that the confrontation with McCarthyism and the Hollywood blacklisting was a real, not a fantasy symbol issue. Jim Carey lacks the pondus that this role needs and his awaited decision to do the right thing, which we always know that he will, is hesitant and more confused than idealistic. Carey is memorable as a clown and does a fair job of distancing himself from that stereotype for this film. But neither his efforts nor the script he is given make him credible as a moral saviour. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I must say for starters that I really liked this movie. I must say it was a very unconventional and the plot was very, very jarring.While trying to be as unspecific about the details of the plot as possible, it basically follows the story of a Pete Appleton, a Hollywood screenwriter, who after a car accident in which he falls into a river causes him to suffer amnesia, ends up washed up on a beach-side town and is recognised as somebody who has died in World War II.There is a very particular style that the director uses really well. This movie, which is set in the 50's with a lot of time spent talking about the movies that were being made at the time, imitates the style of film that was being made at the time. A convoluted plot that seems to lend itself to a romantic comedy, the tone is feel-good, light, non-violent, non-edgy and with a heavy romance element that was so innocent that it harked right back to the era where a kiss was seen as vulgar.However, the events that take place in the movie are seriously dramatic and tension-building and it seems like the movie is going to end in a very dark place despite all the, obviously deliberate, colouring of the light elements thrown in. Its an interesting contrast and left me feeling a bit uneasy all the way through.As you can tell, the tone of the movie was all over the place, but this didn't make the movie worse, in fact it was one of the best qualities. It certainly pulled my emotions around somewhat and kept me engrossed.Jim Carey and Laurie Holden were great and the supporting cast were excellent, especially Martin Landau as Harry Trimble. I also loved Gerry Black as the usher.My only gripe is that I was generally a bit unaccepting of the over-the-top crowd scenes and I didn't find the ending to be completely satisfying, even though it fit right into the underlying style of the film. But of course we all have to make up our own mind. "},{"Title":"lovely","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jim Carey is a comedian i give him that he is funny and original and almost always a joy to watch in movies. I really enjoyed seeing a different side of Jim Carey, he was passionate and deep and i really felt for this character. The character Harry Trimble was so real and i instantly fell in love with him. I really just thought this movie was so well written and all the characters were just amazing. The speech at the end is just so true and you can feel yourself standing behind him one hundred percent. The only thing i did wonder about is at then end of the movie it pans out showing pictures of Jim Carey and Harry and a wedding photo of Jim Carey and his wife but it doesn't show any photos of Pete Appleton's family before he went to this town. But regardless it was a very good movie and i enjoyed watching it. "},{"Title":"Nice little movie","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Running out of overnight options, I decided to look for some weekly's I never got round to seeing. Man is that hard work. Settled on 2 movies for the kids, and 2 for me and wifey. The first we got around to seeing was The Majestic.The Majestic is set in the US in the 1950's where the Government is extremely fearful of the threat of communism spreading on it's shores. The Feds are on a witch-hunt, looking for any possible people who may be spreading the communism message and even those showing interest in it. Upcoming Hollywood writer Peter Appleton (Carrey, in his finest work since Dumb and Dumber) is one such suspect, and when his career looks shot due to a pending enquiry, Peter one night drives out of town to deal with his frustrations. Due to a strange sequence of events, Peter falls into a river, bumps his head and gets amnesia. He is awoken by a local the next day, who takes him into town for some breakfast and time to work out what happened. Peter can't remember what happened in the accident, let alone the last 30+ years of his life, so stays and tries to work it out. Very quickly though an old man notices him and is sure Peter is his son Luke, who was believed to have died in WW2. He looks the same and seems to have several similar characteristics, so everyone goes along with it, even though Peter (who doesn't know who he is don't forget) isn't so sure. Before long Peter has embraced who everyone thinks he is and starts to relax into his surroundings. Is Peter really Luke? Is Luke really Peter? Does Peter really exist? Does Peter just look like Luke? Is Peter dreaming? See it to find out! I really enjoyed it because it kept me guessing, was set it a nice little town and it had a nice little story. Carrey does a nice job and is backed up by a solid cast, especially the dad, and more hey it's that guy guys than you could poke a stick at. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Movies I've Ever Seen","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you've read a bad review on this movie, don't believe it! I was not a big fan of Jim Carey before this film but now I certainly am. He, along with everyone else in the film are excellent, but the story itself, while a tad bit far-fetched, is what did it for me. If you can get over that one small flaw, this is a movie that will lift your spirits and make you feel good about the country we live in. Although the movie is very long, it held my attention all the way through. If you aren't usually a fan of feel good movies, give this one a try anyway. This film is just one more reason why a bad movie review should be ignored until you have the chance to judge for yourself. "}{"Title":"An Unexpected Gem with only Two Flaws","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I acquired a DVD of this movie about two years ago. I am usually not over fond of John Carrey. And I watched 15 minutes of The Majestic and then gave it up in disgust. Fortunately, I did not trash it or give it away.Then it seemed to be just another rather over-sentimental chocolate box design melodrama based on nostalgia for the early 1950s. I myself am quite nostalgic about my own non-American 1950s as a child but I don't generally like the stuff being spooned down my throat (figuratively speaking).However, yesterday I noticed The Majestic in my movie collection and decided to give the film a second chance. Wow! It turns put to be a real gem if you can get past the first ten minutes or so. This time Carrey shows his real talent, instead of the mindless jinks he gets up to in most of the other movies I've watched him in. He is assisted by a superb supporting cast of whom only one or two are well&#x96;known outside of TV series.Let me say initially what I still do not like about the movie. First, it need not have been so long. This was mostly as a result of too many pregnant pauses and over-stretched intimate scenes between the hero, the heroine and the old man who imagines that he is the hero's father. Second the near fatal flaw which has prevented the film achieving full marks of excellence is the awful soggy background musical sound track. It reminded me too much of that in the 1960s Peyton Place TV series. Indeed, it has overtone of a soap opera (which The Majestic is definitively not). The music track was as irritating intrusion and as awful as the canned audience laughter in an otherwise good TV sit-com. Nothing else was bad, in fact all other aspects of the movie were outstanding.The plot partly revolves around a dilapidated and unused cine theatre in a small town on the Californian coast. It calls to mind works such as the Ealing Studios 1957 comedy The Smallest Show on Earth where a young couple inherit and try to revive a decrepit old theatre and Italy's 1988 Cinema Paradiso. Also the film's small town setting calls to mind Frank Capra's 1946 It's a Wonderful Life. But the actual plots are entirely different. The Majestic is shot in Southern California in warm evocative colours and each frame looks like a Norman Rockwell magazine cover. In contrast to the background music track the borrowed music used (for e.g. a jive dance scene) is contemporary and pleasing.The plot involves a young script-writer producer - Peter Appleton (John Carrey)- who learns he is to be summoned to appear before the notorious Un-American Affairs Committee. Many folk in Hollywood were obliged to do so during the McCarthy witch hunt period where every other intellectual was regarded as a clandestine, unpatriotic, communist spy. Peter's studio bosses decide they have to can his latest work-in-progress and let him go until the matter is resolved (to get off the hook he may have to sign a statement that he renounces his alleged membership in the Communist Party and finger a list of other Hollywood personalities whom he has never met).To drown his sorrows he and his stuffed monkey mascot have one too many drinks in the Bongo Congo bar. He then decides to take a spin along the coast road in his convertible Mercedes. But in an effort to avoid a possum on a narrow one lane wooden bridge he, monkey mascot and car end up in swift flowing river. Pushed by the current Peter bangs his head on a stone pier of the bridge and is stunned . The next morning he is discovered on an ocean side sandy beach cast up by the tide. The old man who finds him as he regains consciousness then brings him into the small town nearby for breakfast in a diner and for some medical attention to his head wound. Now this is not the first movie I've seen where somebody loses their memory nor where they are the victims (or beneficiaries) of a mistaken identity.Will leave it at that, Peter is mistaken for a young town denizen, Luke Trimble. A GI who has been missing in action during the recent World War II, and is presumed dead since his body was never found. Luke even has a tomb in the town's memorial graveyard. Peter is incredibly like the missing Luke and is re-discovered by Luke's old father, who is the owner of a disused cine theatre,The Majestic, and is fully convinced that Peter is his son.This situation is fertile with the many predictable and quite a few unpredictable outcomes which are the stuff of good melodramas. The movie's makers have fully and successfully developed such opportunities. Over nearly three hours they have neatly handled and resolved the plot and its sub-plots in a manner which would make Shakespeare himself proud of them&#x96;but for the two flaws I have already mentioned.The film was produced by Castle Rock , which has also made a number of Stephen King based-movies including The Shawshrank Redemption and The Green Mile. So it is not surprising that at least two of the main actors have appeared in other Castle Rock movies. Altogether The Majestic is a highly entertaining melodrama for a wet week end or for an evening when the fare on regular TV sucks. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey shows us the meaning of growing as an actor.","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a very unforgiving world, Jim Carrey goes against the grain, and plays a character that is completely opposite of what we've come to expect from him. But just as every other actor who's ever dared to grow as a performer, he was, or course, shot down.In my own opinion, as an avid movie watcher and an actor myself, I thought Jim Carrey did an excellent job in a movie that otherwise would have been average.  No he didn't scream Smokin! and he didn't talk out of his butt; why is this a problem?  The movie has a concrete story, a very well played supporting cast, and a great lead.  While most people believe Jim Carrey did a terrible job, I feel that he brought more to this role than most could.I highly recommend this movie to people with an open mind and who would like to see a talented(yes he's crazy, but that doesn't mean he doesn't have talent)actor push himself to an entire new realm.  Give it a real chance and you won't be dissappointed.Arcamian "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say that this is probably the only Jim Carrie movie that I like. Many of his other films I found to be incredibly stupid excuses of what was considered comedy. I was not disappointed in his work here. "},{"Title":"not quite majestic, but still good","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i watched this movie despite my friends' warnings...  it's not the usual jim carrey movie (very little humor)... but i still enjoyed it. the movie did seem extremely long though...but i think it was necessarily considering the plot required that... there was a lot of character development necessary in this movie.  the ending was superb, i can't imagine anything better.  (although the welcome for pete at the end was a bit bizarre).  all in all, this was a good film.  i enjoyed watching it but it's not the type i would want to see again.  ever.  so i give it 7/10.   "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Carrey does it again in this incredible well written movie.I agree at some points it may seem a bit long but all in all worth a look.I thought this was Jim Carrey second best movie after the Truman Show yes its hard to say because he has also done dumb and dumber + liar liar but this was a very interesting movie from the start. Never really looked elsewhere I was interested all the way.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"`The Magic is all around you, the trick is to see it'.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this was a very special feel-good movie with lots of good messages.  The more experiences one has lived through, the more they would get out of this movie.  I think to  understand loss, one must have known love; to understand courage, one must have known fear. To start with, I was beginning to think Hollywood couldn't make a movie without filling it with smokers and foul language.  I liked the fact this movie was relatively free of such things.  I know movies imitate life, and sometimes that okay, but movies also serve as a role model for our children to a certain extent. My favorite in the movie was Harry Trimble (Martin Landau) for a couple of reasons.  First, I think he hit the nail right on the head when he said `.there's magic all around you, the trick is to see it.'  I think that's a good philosophy to live by.  What's wrong with looking at life through rose-colored glasses just a little. The second reason I liked Harry was he makes us appreciate the love that should exist between a parent and child.  Having served with and around the military for over 40 years including two years in Vietnam, I saw both fathers and sons die in Vietnam.  To really appreciate such a loss, one must really appreciate the love and value of a loved one.  For instance, think about all the hours spent raising, loving, and caring for a child reading with them most every night, sickness, soccer practice, homework, playing catch, braces, etc. and I could go on but I think you get the message.  To lose someone so dear must have caused tremendous pain and grief.  With Harry, he gets a second chance at life.  I can't help thinking what I would give to have a second chance to talk with Grandma once more on her front porch. I was also impressed with Jim Carrey (Luke/Pete).  I used to think Jim was just another comedian trying to act.  But when I saw him in the movie `Lair, Lair', I realized he was capable of doing some serious acting.  My favorite part of him in this movie was when he gave the speech in front of the committee.  I thought it was real.  Having taught for several years at a military school, I recall when I first started teaching.  I was not born with a gift for gab.  I feel Jim (Pete) came across just as I might have, trying to find the courage and right words in front of all those people. The speech also reminds us that we all need to think about what we're fighting and dying for.  Remember all those nights reading with your child. Is the cause great enough for him or her to die for? The best I save for last.  I thought Adele (Laurie Holden) was the glue that held this story together.  She is so beautiful and your heart goes out to her when she first walks into the diner and realizes Luke doesn't recognize her.  Imagine the sense of loss and heartbreak.  My favorite part of the movie with Adele has to be the one of her in the red dress at the dance. Can you imagine having to leave that to go fight a war?  Now that would take more than courage, I think! In summary, The Majestic goes down as one of my all-time favorites.  Sure, you could find holes in it if you tried hard enough.  But for me, the movie was full of magic, all you had to do was look for it.  I might add that the soundtrack is full of feel-good music.  My 8 year old grandson is inspired to play the piano after listening to it.  His favorite is the `Boogie Woogie Stomp' by Jim Cox and he loves to sing along to Nat King Cole's Orange Colored Sky.  I recommend everyone see this movie and remember to look for the magic - An Old Soldier  "},{"Title":"everybody knows jim for his comedic roles, but this movie...","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...was an entirely different movie, especially for him. you wouldn't really think ol' carrey was capable of something like this, especially after movies like the mask, ace ventura, dumb and dumber, and liar liar, but he was surprisingly very good in this movie. i thought he was going to be in serious dramatic roles in his movies from now on, since watching this movie, but with bruce almighty and some new comedy starring him, nevermind!this movie is one of my top 25 movies i've ever seen (around #14)********.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"!","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i know this has gotten mixed reviews on this board but i thoroughly enjoyed it. i'm not a huge jim carey fan, but i've got to say he was great in this as he was in the truman show.seems most comedic actors are much better when they get serious. take a look at robing william in moscow on the hudson. "},{"Title":"Good work of Dabaront and Carrey","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cinema director Frank Dabaront shows us (another time) his talent to direct movies like he already made with Shawshank Redemption. I have liked most of the things of this film good atmosphere (similar atmosphere to that of Shawshank Redemption), good music, good direction, Jim Carrey's titanic intervention and also Martin Landau's human intervention that almost made me cry of the very that Landau made it. The only thing that I find difficult of believing of this movie is the script that seems too surrealist (Carrey falls of a bridge, he loses the memory and in a town they take it as a hero of war....). In spite of everything it is it a good movie and it clears us some the most commercial cinema in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"One of Jim Carrey's best.","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fine movie and one of Jim Carrey's best. Yes, it's sweet. Yes, it's emotional. Yes, there's a fantasy element along the lines of It's A Wonderful Life. But, the movie works and it works well. Looking for a feel good movie? Here is is. Enjoy!!!! "}{"Title":"a bit twist, but still a good movie","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Carey played a young script-writer in Hollywood, Peter Appleton that thinks he got both career and love of his life. Until one day, his name been blacklist from Hollywood because he been accused joining a communist. After been dumped by his girlfriend Peter Appleton drove his car and somehow his car fell from a bridge onto the river and hit his head hardly and lost his memory. until an old man and his dog found his and brought his to a small town and there where it all started when Harry Trimble(Martin Landau) thinks Peter Appleton is his sons that been reported lost in action back in war. This is a great movie to watch a good directing by Frank Darabont and script-writer by Michael Sloane and a well performance by Jim Carey. This is a totally different movie from all Jim Carey movie before and I gave this movie 7/10. go and rent it !!!!!     "},{"Title":"worst of times, best of times","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  if any of you are writers, like for real writers, not someone who wants to be a writer, but one that is no matter how hard you try not to be - this movie, in a hollywood format, releases a breath of fresh air amidst all the smog of hollywood imitators and the man.this movie seems for the most part, like any other nice, safe, cozy drama. almost like something made for lifetime or oxygen or whatever other made for women channels are out there. it's rare nowadays that the average person and who that is i don't know, but for sake of argument gets to think with the movie they are watching. the red scare with all the king's men prancing around accusing and passing the blame like adam to eve to the snake, is so relevent to modern man's demise in substance. and this movie takes it home to the heart. Everyman is like peter, jim carrey's character, who just wants to survive. but Everyman wishes he could be like luke trimble, the man peter is mistaken for, the man who stands for something, and that something is not just looking out for his own skin.people have forgotten the road of ideal, and taken the road or pragmatism, and this movie shows itself, in a nice hollywood format, that the former road should not be passed over for the latter. and you mix in somewhat of a wierd love story, yet proving people's innate desire for love maybe a little stretch...if this movie can't make you say, hey, maybe there's room to improve, then maybe you are too far gone, taken by the mindless entertainment america too often succumbs too, all to not be alone... if you're the average joe schmoe, that is. for everyone else, i wouldn't know. good movie to watch. rarely do i think a movie is worth the money i paid for to rent it, and even though i didn't pay any money, it was still good. ; "},{"Title":"One more movie about amnesia thing, and NOT one more movie about it.","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like in summary. One more movie about the amnesia. When you got troubles in your life, get drunk, car accident, you lost your memories bla bla bla... When you wake up from nightmare and find out it is worse. It's REALITY. Soon you got your new life without memories who you are, and where you came from. Hero of this movie got lucky, he got his new life as a brave young soldier, who's all acquaintances, even his new(old) dad are living in a small Podunk. He's a hero of the day, the one who brings joy and confidence to town. Hero came back or smth. But... One day OLD life, memories, comes back. He's not hero Luke anymore. He's Pete. Dreaming about his old life in big town. Little problem - he was accused being communist, and he has to do his old life to come back is to lie in court he WAS one. And ruin other ppl life's accusing them being communists too. That moment Luke he was came back. Self-determination, who is he now, Luke or Pete? What is right, and what is wrong? Finding yourself, become a man you really are, that what this movie is about. "},{"Title":"Incredible Film","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never got the chance to see this in the cinema but recently bought the DVD and was very impressed. This is a top quality film from Frank Darabont, not quite as good as Shawshank but pretty close.I felt Jim Carrey deserved at least an Oscar nomination for Truman Show and Man On The Moon, but this seals it, Carrey deserved an Oscar for his performance in the Majestic. Not even a suggestion of his famous humour, just genuine, emotional, heart on the sleeve acting. Even a 'struggling against great odds' story that the Academy loves. Surely they can't hold Ace Ventura against him forever, how many films like the Majestic must he make before they recognise his talent?Overall a wonderful film, if you haven't seen it then go out and rent it, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Almost great","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the first questions that come to my mind after seeing a movie is rather or not I had actually seen a good film. Usually, there can be a clear-cut answer, but in the case of movies like A.I &#150; Artificial Intelligence, I did not know for sure. In some cases, I am seeing a decent movie, hoping it could be more. In other instances, I actually wish the movie was less.All of this leads me to The Majestic, a 2001 Jim Carrey movie. In the end, here is what I feel I had seenGood acting. Good cinematography. Good characters. Good situations. The common word there, obviously, is Good. Notice that I did not say Great. That is where I hoped it could be more.Here is a film in which Jim Carrey plays his part basically straight. He is a fairly normal person in the real world. Well, as real as it was in 1951. Carrey is not acting over the top like The Grinch, or an unusual and outrageous person like Andy Kaufman (Man on the Moon). In The Majestic he is also not playing someone in an unusual situation, like The Truman Show. For that reason, I thoroughly enjoyed Jim Carrey. Nowhere in The Majestic was he trying to simply go for laughs. In fact, now that I think about it, I don't recall ever once simply bursting into laughter.Certainly the star of the show, Carrey did not ever try to steal the spotlight away from anyone. He lets them all shine, and many of them do. Other than Jim Carrey, the other actor who deserved plenty of recognition is Martin Landau. He is very absorbed into his role. And, at a pivotal time in the picture, Jim Carrey makes the perfect decision regarding Martin Landau. I applauded him for that.The downside of The Majestic was that it was a little too long. It had to be able to tie up the loose ends of all that was happening, and there is almost too much going on. Carrey's amnesia, and his relationships with everyone in the town, was adequate enough to fill up a movie. But, having the additional aspect of him facing the accusation of being a Communist during the McCarthy era, provided another complicated portion that required too much extra time.Using my four-star rating system, The Majestic easy gets, ***. I will someday enjoy watching it again.The DVD did have its flaws. No commentary, no bloopers, and no documentary. "},{"Title":"very enjoyable, Darabont returns to emotional truth","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    A strong, patriotic comeback for Frank Darabont following the mainly phony The Green Mile.  I saw this movie in the theater during the holidays and it was a wonderful experience.  Some members of the audience were smiling at each other in the elevator afterward and commenting on what a good movie it was. They were right. It was that kind of movie.    Some critics got it--Ebert, notably--but many bashed it terribly--Susan Stark comes to mind.  In so doing, the latter did a great disservice to the viewing public. (Joe Leydon did a similar disservice with regard to Donnie Darko).    This movie does not cheat the audience.  It delivers a warm, smart story.  At a time when so many movies are leaving the audience out in the cold, this one rewards people who wanted to be touched.  I offer thanks. "},{"Title":"I freakin' Loved it! ~!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was incredible i loved it from beginning to end.  At first i didn't want to watch it because i had to for school.  It turned out to be one of the greatest top 5 movies in the new millienum.  I love the serious Jim carrey thing it really goes well, plus he was adorable in this movie.  I think the acting was beyond great and the story line hit right out of the ball park.  I recommend this movie to family movie nights or just to watch when you want a feel good movie that makes you laugh and smile.   "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey?  Away from comedies? No way...","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***Starring Jim Carrey, Martin Landau, and Laurie Holden.Yes way.  A man who was recently blacklisted accidentally crashes his car into a river, supposedly drowning him.  He wakes up one day with amnesia, and walks into a town, whom the people might just find him as a hero.  The movie is very well acted (Jim Carrey could've been up for an Academy Award) and is fit for the whole family.  The chemistry between the actors work perfectly. "},{"Title":"I must say, the comparisons to Capra were a little forced.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If It's a Wonderful Life is NOT the only Capra movie you've seen, you'll realise he doesn't spend very much time at all looking at small-town life, and even if it IS the only Capra film you've seen you'll realise that Capra was as nimble and as sure-footed as ... well, a goat. He would NOT (in his prime, or perhaps ever) have made something as turgid, and for the most part as dead, as this.From the moment Peter Appleton bangs his head to the moment when the two separate plot strands (finally, FINALLY) curl around and meet one another, there's not a single scene with any life - okay, to be fair, there's maybe one or two, but it comes to the same thing. Unconnected scene after unconnected scene, we're thinking to ourselves Why are we being shown this? I mean, why THIS? And why is it taking so long, and why is it so curiously dull?(Some spoilers follow.)And yet there's also too much material. I have no quarrels with the overall shape of the story; I can see the connection (not meant to be obvious at first) between Luke fighting in Europe and Peter standing up to HUAC, and I must admit I enjoyed basking in the two consecutive moments of triumph towards the end, even if they sit ill with one another (the ending, so far as the plotting went, needed a LOT of work, just as the rest of the movie so far as the pacing went needed a lot of work). But was the father and son stuff really necessary? Neither director nor writer really seemed to think so, since the moment the father looks as though he might get in the way of the plotting, he's packed off with unseemly haste - that is to say, he has a sudden heart attack, which DOES get him out of the way, but results in yet more material that's purely utilitarian in purpose, and NOT utilitarian in the sense of providing pleasure. Then there's that story conference at the end, where we hear a voice-over ask while the camera focuses on Jim Carey's face But has our hero suffered enough? and we groan heartily as we realise that we're now going to have to endure some supposedly clever self-reference, on top of everything else.I'm being harsh on The Majestic because it COULD have really been good. Frank Darabont, despite the impression I may have conveyed, is actually a good director; he just needs to divest himself of his habit of staring in the same rapt way at EVERY SINGLE MOMENT, as though they were all equally important or interesting. This worked well with The Shawshank Redemption, which had a crackerjack story, moulded into perfect shape by Stephen King long before work on the film began. It hasn't worked nearly so well since.Some film-related nit-picks the aspect ratio of Sand Pirates of the Sahara is exactly the same as that of the rest of the movie 1.851. This is ridiculous. A black and white B-movie of 1951 would NOT have had so wide a screen. (By way of comparison, even the lush, expensive A-movie with which The Majestic opens - An American in Paris - did not have so wide a screen. Its ratio was 1.371.) In almost all other ways as well, Sand Pirates of the Sahara is a pretty poor pastiche. And what was wrong with the suggestion made at the story conference at the end, involving the dog? Why shouldn't the hero of Ashes to Ashes go blind? Why shouldn't a blind man have a guide dog? Why, in short, does Peter Appleton describe this idea as about the dumbest thing he's ever heard? "},{"Title":"A film with a script!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, we've seen this movie many times before.  It is reminiscent of Kapra-Korn.  This is the docudrama (I guess, for lack of a better word) version of It's a Wonderful Life! in a way.  Based on a heinous era in American history (when hasn't there been one?), the film tells a story.... what a concept!!  A movie with a story.  Goodness!  They can still WRITE in Hollywood!!!  When was the last time you saw a film with a story?  If you are getting tired of watching nothing more than bodies, boats, buses, planes, and buildings blowing up, (as I am) then you might be at least entertained by this piece of fluff, as I was.  Not only is this film about the '50s, it IS a '50s film.  It looks, feels, sounds, and even tastes like a '50s flick.  (I could taste the jujubes (sp?) when they were mentioned in one scene in the lobby of The Majestic.)My one fault with the film (the mediocrity of the movie is not a fault you can't fault something that just is) is I tried to place some kind of symbolism on The Majestic, the movie theatre, on what was happening in the film.  Uh-uh!  No go!  It's not the Cinema Paradiso, friends.It's hard to love or hate this film.  As someone else wrote here, it just IS.   "}{"Title":"Underrated.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic was definitely an underrated movie. Jim Carrey really shows that he can do more than comedy and he puts an exclamation point on that statement with his great dramatic performace in The Majestic. It really is just a great movie that also has some good performances by some lesser known actors & actresses. The plot line also makes this an interesting film and many other aspects improve it even more. Go out and see it! "},{"Title":"Mr. Carrey is one of the great dramatic actors!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe that the  press didn't hail this as one of Mr. Carrey's and Mr. Darabont's best films to date. Maybe they are still a little sore over their indiscretions. Mr. Carrey is one of the greatest dramatic actors of our time. Time will be kind to this film. "},{"Title":"Excellent work... well done...","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic was a wonderful screen play. It really made Carrey shine and show how much of a complex actor Jim can be, which I believe the public has been waiting for, for a long time. Jim Carrey has always done comedies, as we all know, but The Majestic shown a different side of Carrey, showing us how talented he really is. He can act as comedy...all the way to drama and romance. The Majestic had bits of comedy in it, but alone it was a wonderful dramatic, sweet film about an L.A. movie writer, who crashes and wakes up in a small California town, where he is mistaken for a man of war who had been believed to have died. The town is overwhelmed when they 'think' that Carrey is someone else, a man who was a great part of the town. The Majestic is a must see and NOT a disappointment. I give it an 8 out of 10 stars. If u disagree with my comment, e-mail me. "},{"Title":"One Word Summary-Wonderful","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Carrey did it again! It won't be long until he has an OSCAR to sit along side his GOLDEN GLOBE. In THE MAJESTIC, Carrey plays a screenwriter who is attacked during the MacCarthy era. He decides to just get in his car and drive, after having more than a few drinks. He goes off a bridge and the story really begins. He is found on the beach near a small and nearly forgotten Southern California hamlet. Upon waking, he has no memory of who he is. The kind old man who finds him, thinks he has seen him somewhere, but isn't sure. He takes Carrey into the town where it becomes clear he is a ringer for a young man who died in WWII. Not knowing who he is, seeing what he thinks is himself in photos kept preserved by his Father, played by Martin Landau. He takes on the task of giving the town it's life back. First step? re-open The Majestic, the movie house his 'father' had let fall to ruin after his son's death. (Did I mention his son's body was never found?) But, alas, after meeting the love of his life and bringing the town back to what it had once been, all good things must end. Carrey regains his memory. I'll not give away any more of the plot for those of you who have yet to see this film, but I think it is worth watching over and over again. It is about self discovery, loyalty and most of all, self respect. It's high on my personal list of MUST SEE FILMS.  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey is one of the worlds greatest performers!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Carrey can be a wacky character like Ace Ventura or a can perform in hilarious skits with his Fire Marshall Bill character. He can make Bio-Pics like Man on the Moon(great movie). He can be believable in one of the most creative movies of all time , The Truman Show. In one year he can satisfy kids with The Grinch and his hardcore Dumb and Dumber fans with Me, Myself and Irene. Cable Guy was a great dark comedy and he probably loved playing Riddler in Batman Forever. Another film he did, Liar, Liar was a comedy and a great family film. I think Majestic is a very great old school drama. It has a lot of heart and anyone who enjoys film should like this. Hardcore Carrey fans may not enjoy this since he is not using his comedic talents. I loved this because i can be a fan of his and enjoy the performance. This movie was unique and Jim Carrey deserves props from every movie fan on earth. Truman Show is my favorite movie of his and he never sucks. So with saying that he doesn't suck. This movie does not! Go check it out. If you like this , check out Robert De Niro in Guilty by Suspicion. They both have a lot to do with Communism. "},{"Title":"A Return to Good Acting","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  > The majestic is definitely among the best movies I've seen > recently. > > I was so pleased to see actors truly acting and the director allowing the > actors to act and not trying to camouflage them behind screens of special > effects and CGI. > > Jim Carrey's performance was reminiscent of a Frank Capra-era Jimmy Stewart > (particularly Mr. Smith Goes To Washington). Likewise, Martin Landau and > Gerry Black played loveable, memorable characters with style and > prowess. > > I recommend this movie very highly. "},{"Title":"Majestic ... No, But very enjoyable","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  I do wish Jim Carrey would get some recognition for his wonderful acting talents.  He is obviously being penalized for his early comedies.  Why is that?  We don't still hold Tom Hanks prisoner to Batchelor Party and Splash.  I am here to say that Jim Carrey is every bit the actor that Hanks is ... minus the recognition.  This movie and The Truman Show and his turn as Andy Kaufman prove this.  The director Frank Darabont has a wonderful ability to create very private moments between characters in his films.  The Green Mile and Shawshank Redemption have many minor classic moments.  This movie adds a couple of more.  I also appreciate his efforts to feed the old regime in Hollywood by casting James Whitmore, Hal Holbrook and Martin Landau.  David Ogden Stiers turns in a nice quiet performance as Adele's dad.  Speaking of Adele, this is the downfall of the movie.  Laurie Holden does not have the strength to give this role the presence it needed.  She can not hold her own with Carrey despite his efforts to let her.  A stronger female lead makes this a better movie.  Bob Balaban turns in another strong supporting role.  Overall, very watchable, but could have been much better.  "},{"Title":"Ssssssssmokin'!!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here's the exact opposite on the spectrum to 'The Mask' which I also loved.  But I kept wanting Jim Carrey to do something whacky.  And, ya know, even though he didn't, I really enjoyed this movie.  It helps if you pretend this isn't Jim Carrey.  Which isn't hard to do since he pulls off the part stylishly.  Oh jeez, its Jim's twin brother.  I knew it!!  The more serious and dramatic one.  Honestly, if he's going to start doing drama, I'll just have to get used to it.  Cuz as much as I hate to see him all grown up, Mr. Carrey has wonderful talent.  I think I could sit through many more films like this one.The supporting actress was beautiful, talented, and held her own next to Jim's great performance.  There was definately some on-screen chemistry going on there.This was a great 'feel good' movie and I watch it many times. 9/10 pts.  1 taken for some predictability. "},{"Title":"A Splendid Movie!!","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With the exception of the Truman show, I have never been a fan of Jim Carrey's, but I must admit that he was great in this movie. This movie is for the real movie lover, it is a little long, but it is time well spent.  A somewhat light hearted, feel good sort of movie that will involve you with it's characters, it's stunning sets, and give you a little history lesson in the Red Hunt that swept Hollywood in that time period.I not only recommend seeing this flick, but buying it, for it will quickly become a family classic "},{"Title":"The return of Jimmy Stewart","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic was a video choice, one of those 'I don't know what to rent.'  I picked up the dvd, not expecting too much.  That was probably the best way to watch it.  It was good, not amazing, it might not stand up to repeated viewings, but definitely worth the rental price.The entire way through the film I kept thinking to myself that this was a Jimmy Stewart film.  It had a 'Capra' tone to it, in both it's look and plot.  Carey does a good job, and the supporting cast is excellent.  The film has a great look to it, with all of the period acurately shown.Would I strongly recommend it, yes.  But don't expect any high speed chases, strong sexual content or deep laughs.  Instead plan to ease back into some Capra and Stewart. "}{"Title":"Satisfying","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that Tom Hanks would have made ten years ago. It's too bad he didn't get a shot at it because the everyman role of Pete/Luke is the type of role that Hanks cut his teeth on. In any event Jim Carrey does a fine job in a very understated performance. The real stars of the movie are all the great character actors playing the local townfolk of Lawson. I found this movie a great way to spend a quiet Sunday evening. "},{"Title":"Do You Like a Good, Old-fashioned, Movie With High morals?","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Where has this movie been?  I first heard about it from a friend.It is an excellent film.  I thoroughly enjoyed it!I do not usually enjoy Jim Carrey, so I ,at first, hesitated to view the film.  But I am certainly glad that I did.  He was a delight to see in this one.  I highly recommend The Majestic.DO NOT MISS IT! "},{"Title":"Darabont delivers again, Carrey surprises","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I saw this film, it had both good and bad going for it.  The Good Frank Darabont, one of my favorite directors.  The Bad Jim Carrey, a comedian I'd tired of.  I'm glad to say, the good was only slightly under par, and the bad was, refreshingly, not bad at all.The conflicts, the contrasts of this film are its true strength.  It's a clash of two American dreams.  In one, friends become names on a blacklist. Films are meant to fill pocketbooks.  Self-preservation is the bottom line. In the other, strangers are given the shirt off one's back.  Films fill the heart.  Sacrifice transcends all.  The incorporation of the red scare is what's most ironic and uplifting.  While Hollywood and Washington tear each other down in fear of Communism, we find a small town, ultimately far more American, and at the same time, very communal.  It seems to support itself not through profit but through helping hands & shoulders to lean on.  And yet it does this out of unity, mercy, patriotism--all of America's greatest ideals.Sure, like the small town Carrey's character washes up in, the film is a bit old-fashioned and cheesy, but these are simply its traits, not its flaws. In fact, the cynical criticism the film has received is not unlike the true antagonist of the film an America out of touch with itself.Darabont is no disappointment here.  Good visuals, a great cast doing a great job, and as is his trademark, a beautiful, uplifting look into years past.  I'm only sorry he didn't write the film as well.  Were he to, this film might've rivaled Shawshank as his greatest.As I said, I hadn't been fond of Carrey since the first couple of his mindless comedies (i.e. Ace Ventura).  Everyone seemed to want more, but it had gotten old.  He did, however, hint at something greater in Truman Show, and he delivers in The Majestic.  Subtlety will probably never be his strong point, but he's learned to tone down and channel his expression well.  Our expectations of him actually work to his benefit, as we can enjoy him even at points when we'd otherwise dislike the character--I caught myself chuckling a few times when it probably didn't merit laughter.Overall, this film is not quite as great as its idea, but it's still wonderful.  More than likely, this film will earn a spot among my personal favorites.  (9.5/10) "},{"Title":"Wish I had seen it on the big screen","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I truthfully was hesitant to see this movie due to the fact Jim Carrey was in it, knowing I've never seen him in a serious role. I didn't think he could honestly pull it off! Boy was I wrong about that! I have to give mad props to the entire cast. This movie was truly a feel good movie (where the good guy wins). It is for anyone who wants to be entertained. I could sit through it with my father and us both enjoy it, and that, especially nowadays is particulary hard to conquer for a man 62 years old! If you haven't seen it, SEE IT! Granted, it's not THE best movie I've ever seen, but it does deserve recognition! The message of the entire flick is a great one... one that we don't hear a lot - but don't listen to me - go find out for yourself!   "},{"Title":"Nostalgic, warm-hearted, and enjoyable","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film tries working on four levels, and succeeds on two of them, gets an incomplete in the 3rd, and a nice try in the last.  It is a wonderful feel-good light drama about the good and bad of what Hollywood gives to America, and the games the power people play freely with the lives of others (on this note, the two studio conferences actually voiced by accomplished directors, are utterly hysterical gems). The Majestic is also a marvelous depiction of the great American small town, and a realization of just how much we have give up in the name of progress -- the cast, led by vets Whitmore, Landau, Stiers, and DeMunn are just wonderful in this regard.  As a romance, it gets an incomplete.  Laurie Holden is never particularly convincing in her character despite great support from Papa Stiers, so the director wisely lets the true romance be between Carrey and the town, with Holden reduced to suitable window dressing.  The nice try is the attempted lesson to be learned when America turns into a bully.  I must assume that the film was already filmed when the War Against Terrorism broke out, but the lesson of not allowing our fears to turn America into a police state has never been more appropriate.  But Balaban plays the Roy Cohn surrogate so broadly and ineptly that the menace never seems to have enough teeth.  Also, from a pacing standpoint, I think we spent too much time watching Carrey feel out the town before he mistakenly accepted his new identity enough to put his heart and soul into rebuilding the Majestic -- a nostalgic valentine well-deserving to be the American equivalent of Cinema Paradiso. This movie is not for the hard-edged, hyper-critical, and misanthropic -- they are welcome to watch Requiem For A Dream or Traffic again if they wish.  However, if you want to enjoy yourself for two hours and change, you can do a lot worse than The Majestic. "},{"Title":"A FEEL GOOD MOVIE, WHERE THE GOOD GUY WINS","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really wondering if Jim Carrey could pull off a serious dramatic role. After seeing The Majestic, I am convinced he can.  He and the rest of the cast have made a movie that is reminessant of the quality of movies seen in years past.  This movie is clean enough to watch with your grandmother.  I hope to see Jim Carrey in other serious roles, only if the script and movie is of the quality of this movie. "},{"Title":"Worthwhile Effort","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film, and enjoyed most of its 143 minutes. The length is justified because we deal indeed with a three acts comic drama, with characters interesting enough to develop.  The plot line is a combination between stories about lost war memories (a la 'Martin Guerre'), love for cinema (as in 'Cinema Paradiso'), Hollywood McCarthy era witch-hunting, and some court drama. Actually Hollywood is at its best when it leaves for a while aliens, space ships, and monsters and looks at itself. This is why the scenes around 'The Majestic' theater in mid section of the film where the ones I enjoyed most.  I liked less the retorics in the last third of the movie. It is incredible in my eyes that even the best discourse about the American Constitution would have saved the day in the period of the anti-communist paranoia. It is also hard too believe that the small American town at its own could have distinguished so easily between right and wrong, at that time. But, that is a Hollywood movie, and the so predictable happy-end was, I guess, inevitable. A few words about the actors. There is a good deal of good acting in this film. Jim Carrey's part is certainly the one we are to watch, in one of its first non-comical roles. He is no Tom Hanks (yet?) and falls back sometimes into grimaces, but overall he delivers a good solid act, in line with the all film - not a masterpiece, but a worthwhile effort leading to an enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Nice thought","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie largely because I wanted to see my faith in Jim Carrey as a straight actor justified. Sadly it wasn't, but the movie eventually turns out better than the first hour or so promises. A writer who is also a victim of McCarthyism loses his memory in a car crash and becomes a small town hero. One suspects the movie may have been a labour of love for some of those involved in it, a fitting tribute to all those people in Hollywood who were affected by the McCarthy era. "},{"Title":"A Fabulous Feel-Good Movie About the American Dream","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an all american movie, about the american dream. I think that line describes it well. Although I normally do not fancy this type of feel-good movies, I will have to make an exception for this one. In some way, this movie touched me on the inside. The plot is really nothing special, and to say that the movie is unpredictable would be a flat out lie. But what makes this movie special is the acting. All actors are convincing in their roles, but it is the sole effort of Jim Carrey that raises this movie to the skies. He is absolutely amazing, and certainly deserves an Academy Award-nomination. All these factors makes The Majestic a fabulous feel-good movie about the american dream. "},{"Title":"This movie delivers!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film delivers what it sets out to deliver, and although some critics say it's too long (over 2 hrs), I didn't find it so - because I was so absorbed in its content.  Those who might be expecting Carrey to be doing his rubber-faced, hyperactive, super-cool, Ace Ventura act, or anything like it will be disappointed, cos it's not that type of film.  JC allegedly admires Jimmy Stewart, and wants to emulate him - in this movie he succeeds; and can't be faulted.  This film is not Escapist fare, but Realistic, and makes you think.  The McCarthy Era in the US was traumatic for many in the movie industry, and this film pulls no punches.  Also, what happens when a Regular Guy loses his memory, and how does he regain it?  This is a four-star movie (insofar as I'm concerned) and is recommended viewing. "}{"Title":"How life should be.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't know if it is right to talk about giving Jim Carrey any awards for his role as Peter/Luke in this film, but I feel that it is perhaps his strongest and emotional performance to date.  Carrey shows here that he can handle the serious parts that require him to be believable and versatile rather than funny, and that he could take on bigger roles than this.The Majestic is set in the early 1950's and is a heart warming tale of blacklisted film writer Peter Appleton (Carrey), who after a car accident finds himself in a small town and mistakenly assumes the identity of Luke Trimble.  Luke has been missing assumed dead since World War 2, and the belief that he has come home lifts the drearyness that hangs over the townspeople.I thoroughly enjoyed The Majestic.  So what if it is sentimental?  So what if it is a little unrealistic?  What is good about the film is that it really makes you feel good, it plays the strings of your emotions like a harp.  The closeness of the characters in the town and the solid performances by actors such as Martin Landau (Harry), Laurie Holden (Adele) and Gerry Black (Emmett) make you want to live in a place that still bonds together and has a feeling of community.I recommend this film to anyone with a soul.  It's not the greatest movie, but a thoroughly enjoyable one - very uplifting! "},{"Title":"A noble effort on everyone's part that just didn't find the right audience","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Synopsis Peter Appleton is an ambitious screenwriter in 1950's Hollywood, dead intent on making a name for himself. But after an obscure association with communism comes out during the time of the McCarthy era, Appleton finds himself blacklisted from the kingdom he yearns to work within. But after an unfortunate accident, Appleton finds himself struck with amnesia in a sleepy California town where he's mistaken for Luke Trimble, the long lost son of a theater owner, missing in the trenches of World War II. As he begins to adjust his life as Trimble in this small town, he ends up discovering the real truth about who he is, and what he is about to become.The Review It's no doubt that Jim Carrey is a truly great actor who can expand beyond his range of usual dick and fart characters. From the urinating in a beer bottle Lloyd Christmas in Dumb and Dumber, to the ridiculously stupid antics of the Grinch. He proved a breakthrough performance with The Truman Show, which was a summer blockbuster, and turned in a spot on performance in the underrated Man On The Moon, a film overlooked by all including the likes of the academy. In The Majestic, Carrey's third shot for Oscar favor, he turns in a fairly good performance in a film that just doesn't hit the right notes with it's audience. The problem with The Majestic, is it isn't in love with itself, it's not the thin mask of Frank Capra's spirit residing over it, and it's not the picture perfect look of the place, but it's two movies wrapped into one. It's a character driven, small town drama on one hand, and a political, freedom of speech drama on the other, and it can't quite make up it's mind. Because of this, audiences are left pondering what kind of film they saw, not to mention the considerable length of the film (2.5 hours). The cast is very good, but the film doesn't seem to hit the right notes. The production design, cinematography, editing, and direction are well done, but unfortunately, the film doesn't take off like it needs to.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey gives a great performance of an even greater script.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched a screening of this movie earlier tonight.What I liked most about it was how entriguing it was. Not boring even for a minute. You can never tell that this is the same Jim Carrey that performed in wacko movies like 'The Mask', 'Liar Liar', 'The Grinch', 'Ace Ventura' and many others.Characters are full in depth, in the end of the movie you feel like you know each and every one of them. The movie is heartwarming, the script is well written, and the acting is divine.9.99/10   (Hey, nothing is perfect in life.. D)  "},{"Title":"A great film! A must see.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie just a few days ago. I walked out of the theater delighted! This movie is a must see in the chaos of all the hyped up movies that have been thrust out there this last Christmas season. I did read the previous review and agree with some parts. (It did tend to be slow on the early arch of the story, but picked up nicely) In this day and age of spectacular effects, flying and magical places, this movie might seem less. It isn't. I found it gentle and sweet, yes a bit predictable, but refreshing. The period feel of the movie was wonderful! I have been to the town where some of the outdoor sequences were shot and it fit well into the thread of the story. Jim was wonderful and shows that he can be serious. But comedy IS serious too, so it didn't really surprise me that he could do this so well. Hats off to you Jim! The rest of the cast supported him nicely. For a wonderful movie, that doesn't throw the story at you, I give it high regards. It's nice to see the outdoor sequences on the big screen, but will be ok on DVD in letterbox format. A nice, gentle heartfelt movie with honesty and caring. Be prepared to take your time here. Mark Isham's music was AWESOME! "},{"Title":"A Good Old-Fashioned Movie","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say I wasn't in a hurry to see this movie for fear that Jim Carey would be over the top in it, but just the opposite.  If anything, Jim Carey was very understated.  This movie was very slow and quiet, everything that was needed to develop the characters and give you time to get to know and care what happens to them.  A welcome change of pace.  Very Capraesque. "},{"Title":"Incredible! (SPOILERS)","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the second time this Christmas season, the critics have dropped the ball, panning The Majestic despite its being a very good movie. (Vanilla Sky also got dissed by critics, but it too is impressive.)Jim Carrey proves once again that he is a fantastic actor, adding this to semi-serious roles in The Truman Show and Man on the Moon. Likewise, Frank Darabont adds a third solid directorial performance, branching out from behind the walls of Stephen King's prisons. The supporting cast, filled with I know I've seen him or her somewhere before!-type character actors, is equally adept. Technically, the movie is very solid, if not unspectacular.Of course the critics and many on the IMDb have lambasted this movie, generally for the schmaltz factor. But seeing as how it's a send-off to the Capracorn classics of the 1930s and 1940s, schmaltz isn't really a factor at all, unless it were to be completely overbearing, which it is not.Going in, it is helpful to think Capra. Because the movie really does combine that famed director's best elements The lone everyman fighting a corrupt or unjust system, patriotism in the forms of dying for the country and studying its founding documents, and a final, climactic, triumphant speech.And The Majestic pays off in spades. Jim Carrey's performance as the everyman is no Jimmy Stewart, but it is still an A+, Oscar-worthy performance. He fights the corrupt and unjust McCarthy unAmerican activities committee. But on his way from being accused to standing before the committee, he has an amnesia-inducing accident. He washes up on the shores of a small town that mistakes him for one of its sons who was lost in World War II.Not sure of who he is, Carrey's character accepts the adulation and helps rebuild the town's historic movie theatre, the Majestic. With it, he rebuilds the town's spirits, which had been shattered after losing dozens of children in the War.But when his memory comes back - coinciding with his fathers death - revealing he is really a blacklisted Hollywood screenwriter accused of being a communist. The town - including the fallen soldier's fiancee and now Carrey's girlfriend - turns on him , and he is arrested by the FBI.Now he has to decide whether to capitulate and renounce being a communist or stand before the committee and fight for what he knows is right.The movie is full of patriotic gestures, including a moment of silence for the men lost in WWII, and Carrey's epic speech before the committee is reminiscent of Mr. Smith Goes to Washington. The respect and adoration given to the Constitution is tantamount to any of Capra's movies, and Carrey's homecoming to the same small town is It's a Wonderful Life in a slightly different setting.Yes, it's sappy. Yes it's schmaltzy. But so was Capra. And his films are regarded to today as cinematic classics. Indeed, Mr. Smith is still watched in high school government classes to this day, and what adult hasn't watched It's a Wonderful Life at least once?The Majestic is nothing more than a Frank Capra film with different cast and different director, filmed in color. Carrey adds a few touches, and Darabont's style is more flashy than Capra's, but nonetheless, it is an optimistic and satisfying film about triumphing over adversity. It's a film that should go down as one of the first films to help America recover from the Sept. 11 attacks.But thanks to narrow-minded critics and cynicists who believe optimism should be relegated to black and white, The Majestic will go down as one of the most underrated movies of the decade.10/10 "},{"Title":"A Touching Story","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jim Carrey once again proves that he can do both comedy and drama in this film. Set in 1951 Carrey plays Peter Appleton a Hollywood writer who is blacklisted by a former girlfriend who says he is a communist which during the McCarthy hearings was a kiss of death. Losing everything from his job to his girlfriend, he decides to drive off as far as he can go on a tank of gas. But during the ride He accidentally falls off a bridge and into the river and wakes up on a beach near Lawson, CA. Suffering from amnesia, he walks into Lawson where and old man (Martin Landau) mistakes for his son Luke, who is M.I.A. during World War II. Not remembering anything Peter believes him. The movie then goes on to show how the town is rejuvenated when everybody thinks he's Luke and He helps reopens His father's old Movie house The Majestic. But it goes downhill when he regains his memory and FBI agents track him down and tell him he has to testify before a congressional hearing. The movie can be very emotional at times, (especially the final scene with Carrey and Landau.) It also gives a history lesson of how unfair the McCarthy hearings were. That along with a touching love story make the Majestic one of my top 10 t "},{"Title":"In a year of slim movie pickings, a real gem.","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am surprised that there are so many jaded viewers out there salivating over ripping apart this film. I'll admit that the Majestic is lighthearted fare, yet there seems to be a general disdain for movies like this nowadays; films which do not push the limit in some way and perform simply to entertain. The Majestic works on a level as an ode to the great American love affair with film, in some impossibly distant and bygone era. Some corner in the soft-focused recesses of our minds. It reminds us of why we love to go to the movies, and in a sad way, why the golden age of film cannot return. As I sat in my local multiplex, I took note of the prices at the concession stand; the cramped size of the theater (1 of 15 inside); and heavens, the $9.00 ticket which emptied my wallet. I couldn't help but lust for the days of grand movie houses which have long since shut down. A place and a time when people dressed up even to see a movie, and for a quarter you could treat yourself to a double feature. While Britney Spears danced around selling Pepsi on screen before the film, I couldn't help but feel as if something had gone terribly wrong in America since those good old days.   The Majestic is a wonderful film with great direction, great acting, (especially Carrey and Landau) and the kind of story which draws you in to some warm place in history where people were still civil to one another. Perhaps I'm being idealistic, and there never was such a place. Yet as I drove home through Hackettstown, passing the late - Strand theater and its marquis which glows no more, I couldn't help but feel as if we've lost something in our modern mega-theaters. Something about neighborhoods and shared experiences, and a slower pace to life. The Majestic may not challenge us or push film to some new extreme, but it does draw you in and entertain in a way that most films this year could not. It forces you to slow down and savor what film can be in the right hands. Now if only we could get rid of Britney spears... "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday. I read many negative reviews about it but never the less I wanted to see it from the very first time I saw a preview. And the movie turned out much better than I expected. Jim Carrey's performance is outstanding. Yes, some might see it as a simple or predictable movie - but there are a lot good and simple movies. One of my criteria for a good movie is to feel whether it uplifts my spirit or not. This movie does a great job in this respect. I give it 9 out of 10 (10 is reserved for one-of-a-kind movies). "},{"Title":"An Elaborate Dream of Redemption","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The way it all happens is perhaps a bit too tricky for the film to actually be considered a serious challenge to the premise that there are no second acts in American life. But viewed as a pastorale-- the dream of a sold-out careerist being given a second chance to redeem his most jaded, big-city, materialistic self-- I think The Majestic is a fine film. Carrey works in the lead; you can actually forget fairly easily that he is a former stand-up comic, and possesses the most elastic mug and manic sense of physical comedy since Jerry Lewis. This is one of those films you wish ended a bit more simply than it does; the wrap up takes a fairly complicated route to making everything alright in the end. Someday, we will be able to assess this film a little more objectively, a bit more relevantly. For now, suffice to say this may be the feel-good film America, and the world, needs. Nine stars. See it with someone you love. "}{"Title":"It's a Wonderful Life bombed at the box office...","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some people still don't like Capra's work.  Those people may not like Majestic either.  However it's not really derivative of Capra.  Majestic is an original movie with an original premise.  There are no angels or saints except those we see walking among us on a daily basis.  There is no time travel beyond that of the trip we are asked to take to the 1950's.What is surprising, is that this is really a film about a man finding out what love, honor, pride and all of those other great American values mean. It starts with a man who never had an honest conviction in his life.  He discovers that there is evil in the world by virtue of being stripped of everything he values (money, position, women).  He is (not giving anything away beyond the trailers) miraculously transported into the life of someone who looks just like him but is, in every other respect, his complete opposite.  He sees, for the first time in his life, what it means to see the glass as half-full.Does this intrigue you?  If so, you will probably enjoy Majestic.  The acting, directing, costumes, sets and writing are all top-drawer.  If you are one of those people who just doesn't like Jim Carrey (well- you probably wouldn't be reading this review if you were) he may surprise you here. While there is plenty of humor in this film, it is all old-school humor, Norman Rockwell humor, ordinary people laughing at themselves humor.  No mugging, pratfalls or outrageous (talking from the butt) behavior inhabits this movie. If that is what you want from Jim Carrey, stand by for acting.In fact, the only real criticism I have is that Majestic is, sometimes, too earnest.  But that is a faux criticism coming from me, because I found the over-the-top sincerity of this movie a refreshing breeze amid a sea of clever, manipulative plots.I know this review rambles more than most.  But this is a movie that rambles.  It strolls through the life the leading man never had and, ultimately, longs for.  If you can check your cynicism at the door for a couple of hours, it may leave you longing for that life as well.  I rate Majestic 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Plot Cheese 101","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a movie-viewer you have the responsibility to suspend some disbelief and let movie magic, improbabilty, and fairy-tale take over to some extent; the studios, in turn, have the responsibility of making a film that will let you do that. Some films pull this off flawlessly; others don't. Guess which category The Majestic falls into.This movie had more sap than a Vermont forest in fall. While I was willing to let some things slide, the ultra-predictiblity of the film and the hounding life is art message was too much. Jim Carrey plays Pete Appleton, a screenwriter who gets blacklisted from Hollywood during the McCarthy witchhunts. He drives off in a car, crashes into a river (a scene in which too much time is spent), and loses his memory. The citizens of a small town find him and believe him to be a long-lost hero of theirs, who dissapeared nine years earlier in WWII. Martin Landau plays the owner of a dilapidated old movie theatre who thinks Pete, now Luke, is his son. Together they rennovate the theatre, Luke picks up his relationship with his old girlfriend Adele (Holden) where it left off, and life is rosy.Even though it's your basic memory-loss story inserted into a thin shell of anti-communisim, it isn't so bad thus far; until we see the McCarthy bad guys determined to find Appleton and slay him as the king of all communists. Here the plot crosses that line from comedic screenwriting 101 to just dang ridiculous. Every cinematic plot point ever made in history is paraded across the screen, leaving the second half of this film more limpid than the first.What's ironic is that this film starts with Appleton sitting in a room twitching his face while the producers mangle his script to make it more hollywoodesque. I guess we are supposed to laugh at the fact that these producers (recognize the voices? Garry Marshall, Carl Reiner, Rob Reiner, and Sydney Pollack) are inserting every stupid plot trick into Appleton's script; however, because the movie itself did just that, I was groaning, not laughing. "},{"Title":"The way it is","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Darabont is a filmmaker who deserves nothing but praise especially for The Majestic.  After a year of meaningless and thoughtless films we have been blessed with The Majestic and A Beautiful Mind.  David Tattersall, Darabont's cinematographer, composed a beautiful picture with Jim Carey giving us a real and nevertheless honest performance.  Any so-called boring pieces are just not apparent.  The simplistic nature of the story depicts a way of life that indeed existed during this particular era. The stubborness of politicians and resistance of heads of state to accept the freedoms of everyday people was an issue at hand.  And yes events may seem predictable and possibly cheesy but when you dig a little deeper you can find a lot of meaning in Michael Sloan's screenplay.A couple of the scenes between Carey and Landau are not to be missed.  I can describe it only as highly emotional and awesome performances.  I would recommend you at least go to see the movie for those scenes.And if any marketing/distribution Co. is listening, I contend that The Majestic, if marketed properly, could have competed with A Beautiful Mind in Ticket Sales.  I'm not taking anything away from either, but that's just my opinion... and the facts.Wonderful movie and a good choice, Frank!  Keep up the good work. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie!","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am stunned that this movie is only rated 7 out of 10 on IMDB, and Lord of the Rings is rated 9.2!  You people are nuts!  This was an excellent movie in every respect.  The characters, the acting, the script, the music and THE ENDING were all outstanding (in contrast to the above mentioned movie)! At the end of this movie, I had the same feelings I had at the end of It's a Wonderful Life.  How could you not like this film?  Sure, it was a little corny, but that was the fun part.  It was a movie that makes you feel good and renews your faith in humanity.  Only a cynical fool could not appreciate that.  To those of you who rated this movie 1 out of 10, perhaps you'd prefer to watch Elijah Wood blankly stare at a ring in the palm of his hand for 3 hours.  Personally, I prefer movies where I actually care about what happens to the characters (and where I can actually keep their names straight).  If this movie is not nominated for best picture and Lord of the Rings is, then I am done watching the Academy Awards forever. "},{"Title":"Sappy and Schmaltzy","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking for pure schmaltz, see the movie.  However, I thought it was ovverrun with confection, and was disappointed to see Jim C's dramatic ability tested out with this melodramatic role. It verged on mocking the old movies, rather than being a tribute to them.Costumes and sets were a pleasure to look at.  The monkey was reminiscent of Brandon Fraser's Monkey Bone another indicator that everything was OVER THE TOP! "},{"Title":"A special movie, showing a special and not-so-special time in history.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic, was a moviegoers movie, great acting, great cast. Jim Carey deserves an nomination. A special movie showing an America government and Hollywood at its worse and showing how not all America was as judgemental as they were.  It was wonderful to me and the soundtrack is terrific. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful, beautiful, moving film. I cried in a few places and laughed in others. It's a feel good movie that grabs your heart. The characters are believable, real and honest. It was refreshing to see a movie without all the sex, nudity, violence or strong language that Hollywood thinks should be in every movie these days. It was the best movie I have seen in a long time and I will be disappointed if it is not nominated for Best Picture. Don't miss this one...it's a winner!!!  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey steps out of slapstick comedy and has a hit","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was well made. The actors, some well known, all gave very good performances, without getting in the way of the plot line. The costumes for the period were good. I thought this was the best movie I've seen Jim Carrey do, and I have seen several of his. My wife and I used to own a video store and have some knowledge of what makes a good movie. If you want to see a movie with good acting and a good plot line, then by all means go see this one. If you expect every movie to be an Academy award winner, maybe you should see something else. I intend to recommend this to my friends. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Enjoyable","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I have said in many reviews, I can glean my Ten Most Enjoyable films of the year from critic's lists of mediocre to lousy rated movies. Critics want to see something different even if it is as lousy as Ghost World. As for me I want to be entertained and yes I love good old corny, feel good movies.On this basis I give The Majestic a solid 10. It was nice to see a movie like this accorded the 2 1/2 hours to develop the story fully and wrap everything up. It went so fast for me that I was amazed when I glanced at my watch and saw it had already passed the two hour mark. Warning If you have a small or weak bladder skip the monster drinks because you won't want to miss a single minute, especially in the last half hour. "},{"Title":"There is life after death","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie hasn't been receiving the attention of other films currently playing, but it sure got my attention and a rating of 10.The hero of this story never participated in The Majestic, because he was presumed dead years earlier in World War II.  Nevertheless, a stranger suffering from amnesia who resembled Luke Trimble unintentionally used Luke's likeness and character to convince a town that the sacrifice of its young men was not in vain.If you appreciate the decorum of an earlier time, you'll love this re-creation of 1951.  The only fly in the ointment was the playing of the song Stranger on the Shore, from 1962.  We are reminded that our civil rights house is not in order in 1951  because the African-American character, himself a World War I hero, is clearly the least affluent and most isolated person in the movie. "}{"Title":"Best Movie I've Seen in 2001!!!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is the best I've seen this year!! Jim Carey should win an award for best actor! If his real life personality is anything close to what he portrayed in this film, I will have to say he would rank as one of my favorite actors. I have not always been a Jim Carey fan. I know this picture will not get the recognition it deserves, which tells me that the morality of our country suffers greatly. I've seen many good films this year. This one ranks number one with me. Finding Forrester would have to run a close second for 2001... "},{"Title":"Thoroughly original and yet a throwback to simpler times ...","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an entertaining film with a lot to offer and a lot to like.  It's full of gimmicks and 1950s small town caricatures that are hard not to like.  Jim Carrey is great.  Turns out, he's excellent as a serious as well as comedic actor.  Martin Landau Always fuses with his role to delight.  Laurie Holden was the biggest surprise for me.  She is fresh to the screen (to my eye anyway) and played the 'girl next door' with more chutzpah and character than I'd ever seen given to such a complementary role.  She's been launched with this film.Some reviews may pummel the film for its playful flaws.  Stranger on the Shore being written in 1962 vs its 55ish setting, for example  ... or the technical aspects of how a car floats from a river to the ocean to the shore...  All  trivia.  None of it matters opposite the magic of the story and the romance.  Its only noteworthy flaw is its pacing.  2.5 hours is too long for this kind of story, though my wife and I argued all the way home about which parts were disposable.  It wandered (much like this comment -)  The editing needed to be tightened up 'somewhere'.  The editor's view is best defended with words from Amadeus (Mozart's exchange with Emperor Joseph).  Emp Joseph said, Your work is ingenious. It's quality work. And there are simply too many notes, that's all. Just cut a few and it will be perfect.  To which Mozart replies, Which few did you have in mind, Majesty?It's thoroughly original and yet a throwback to simpler times that seemed so familiar (to the baby-boomer I am).  If you love the movies in general, you'll likely find this one to be a charmer.  Tears will come.  7 /10. "},{"Title":"It's ok to love the movies - and The Majestic","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic borrows Capra-esque themes (ordinary Joe gains strength from small-town goodness to battle a corrupt government) as it celebrates the magic of movies themselves.Writer Michael Sloane's inventive McCarthy era fable (of an amnesiac screenwriter who's mistaken for the long lost war hero son of a small town) touches on meaningful themes of identity, loss, the high cost of war and the principles on which this country was founded.The central theme of the film, as Carrey's character helps the town rebuild its dilapidated movie house, is that the movies are our temple of wonder and refuge from the harsh realities of life. It's a movie that's unashamedly in love with the movies, and with human themes that have fallen out of favor in our cynical times.Frank Darabont's large cast avoids the cutesie-pie acting style that makes Capra's films seem dated today. Carrey's cynical wink to the audience is replaced here by open-hearted earnestness; Martin Landau is wonderful as the lost hero's father; and Lori Holden combines dream girl perfection with honest acting skill as the girl he left behind.  "},{"Title":"Good directing and acting, bad storytelling.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoiler Warning.I might not have been anywhere near as ticked off about The Majestic if the advertising had been honest. I went into the theater based on TV commercials showing a movie about a guy who'd lost his memory and may or may not have been an MIA World War II hero. Instead, I was subjected to still another Hollywood wet dream about a blacklisted screenwriter who ends up telling off the House UnAmerican Activities Committee investigation into communists in Hollywood.I'm a fan of Jim Carrey. I especially thought he should have got the Oscar for The Truman Show. Frank Darabont did a terrific job directing The Green Mile and episodes of the Young Indiana Jones Chronicles. They did good jobs on The Majestic, too, as did the supporting cast.I haven't seen the original script but either Michael Sloane's screenplay got rewritten or edited somewhere along the way or it should have been. The storyline deliberately creates suspense then cheats the audience out of it. Forget the coincidence that Peter Appleton is washed up on shore near Luke Trimble's town right when Appleton loses his memory after being blacklisted, though that's a lame set up (and a ripoff of 1965's Mirage, written and directed by blacklistees). But it makes no sense for Peter Appleton to be mistaken for Luke Trimble by Trimble's father and lifelong girlfriend if it isn't going to turn out that Trimble had suffered a previous war-related bout of amnesia and really was Trimble. The ultimate cheat is the piano scene where amnesiac Appleton plays boogie-woogie piano only to have a character who said he taught that piece to Trimble later reverse himself and say he was lying. Plot writing like this just stinks.It's also bad character writing for the amoral, no-conviction Appleton to be mistaken for the courageous Trimble merely on the basis of a physical resemblance. Even through amnesia, good writing would have had character tell.But, you see, these plot contrivances are merely for the purpose of setting up Appleton's telling off the Congressional investigating committee with First Amendment rhetoric. It's been a Hollywood catachism for decades that HUAC's investigation (always confused with McCarthy's senate investigation of communists in the U.S. State Department) was a witch hunt. Never mind that HUAC uncovered not only communist but also Nazi and fascist subversive terror cells in the United States, and post 9/11 subversive terror cells hiding behind the Bill of Rights doesn't seem as righteous as it once might have.But I guess you can't blame screenwriter Michael Sloane for having the real world bite him in the ass. "},{"Title":"I Believe Jim Carrey deserves an Academy award.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of the reviews said Jim Carrey didn't exhibit his comedy talent enough in this movie. I believe he played the roll perfectly. There was  enough light parts in the movie. But, the dramatic acting was the best I have seen him do. I believe Jim Carrey deserves an academy award nomination. "},{"Title":"for the love of god, please don't waste your time","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  okay, it may seem extreme, but please DO NOT BOTHER WITH THIS MOVIE. i am not opposed to sentiment in films, i am not opposed to a film taking time to tell a story. what left the undeniably foul taste in my mouth was the pretense of both in a film that was really only structured around jim carrey's painful awareness of the camera and a script that made me pound the armrest in agony. the very phrase capra-esque is an insult to frank capra and the unique charm of his films. i understand that jim carrey wants to explore dramatic acting. good for him. but please, please, take some acting lessons. An amazing gift with comedy does not an oscar winner make. the movie poster should have been a clue...his face in a mask of maudlin angst was, in retrospect, a crystal clear warning. perhaps if frank darabont had chosen to make the majestic a prison we would have all seen a little more redemption. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Easily one of the best, most moving films I have seen this season. Carrey's performance is stupendous.  I laughed, and even teared up during a few scenes.  It truly proves Jim Carrey's versatility as an actor.  A MUST SEE!!! "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS!! Like many, I was really looking forward to this movie.  Jim Carrey has a lot of talent, both as a comedian, and as an actor, but not in this movie. Frank Darabont should only make Stephen King stories about prisons, his specialty.  The reviews I read talked about the feel good America patriotic aspects of the movie.  The scenes honoring the WWII veterans were touching, but the anti-government tone was too much for me.  I know that the McCarthy hearings were bad, but after 9-11, the last thing I want to see is someone bashing our government.The plot is so predictable I was tempted to not come back from the bathroom and just assume the ending (I would have been correct to do so).I don't know what part of the plot was less believable, surviving the horrible crash into a swollen river from a bridge, or his exact resemblance in all features, height, weight, hair, voice, shoe size etc. to the real Luke.The casting and performances of the towns characters was excellent (except Carrey and the cook with the hook for an arm, how many times have you hated someone, hit them in the mouth, and then after finding out they are a communist, decided to like them?)  The cast of other characters, FBI and congressman were just horrible, but this is due to a bad script.Emmett Smith plays for the Cowboys on Sundays, he doesn't live in the basement of a small theater, couldn't they come up with a better name for this character?In the end this movie ends with what I call the &#145;E.T.' ending, mean men from the government arrive to somber music to harm the hero of the film, instead of stealing an alien from Elliot's house, they take Carrey back to Hollywood.If I see one more movie that ends with a speech in a court with a gavel and someone yelling for order in the court, I will be sick.This movie is best rented, and watched with friends after drinking beer so the plot holes are funny, not pathetic. "},{"Title":"Not that good, but not that bad","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, I know this is a predictable movie. I, too, saw every plot point coming from a million miles away. I pretty much knew how it would end about a quarter of the way through the movie. I know I'm not supposed to like a movie like this. Yet, I did.The Majestic could have used a lot of help in some departments, especially in the writing department. It seemed that the movie started off with some pretty good ideas, but much of the dialogue seemed somewhat hackneyed and cliched, as if I had heard it in dozens of movies before (as the friend I saw it with pointed out on several occasions). Also, as many have pointed out, it was rather slow. Some cuts, especially in Peter's speech toward the end, could have helped a lot. However, a faster pace might not have created the proper mood for this film. For playing somewhat stock characters, the actors did a fairly good job. Jim Carrey, although not at his absolute best as he was in The Truman Show, did not disappoint, and the supporting cast of town members, especially Martin Landau and the other Majestic staff members, also did well. The federal agents, on the other hand, were not as impressive, but I'll chalk that up to them not having much to work with. Overall, this film was fairly disappointing. It had the potential to be more than it became. However, although it was not a great movie, I still enjoyed it as an effective 2+ hours of escapism.  "},{"Title":"Patriotism vs. Manufacture In Motion Pictures","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Darabont's The Majestic, despite its Capra-esque tones and feel-good nature, will make some people feel uncomfortable.  In this post-bombing environment, any dissention towards the American government will cause ripples in the minds of the most timid viewers.  And besides, it just doesn't look good.I will say, before I climb on my soapbox, that the movie itself is very good.  Jim Carrey delivers an Oscar caliber performance and unlike most supposed feel-good movies, I actually walked out of the theater feeling good.  It's like eating a homemade dinner at your Grandma's house.  The combination of the hearty food made from a recipe she most likely learned before you were born, and the relics of her past in plain sight around you, makes one nostalgic for a time one was not alive to fully appreciate.But the poor showing of the movie at the box-office and a slew of poor critical reviews indicates that it has drawn the ire of some viewers, be it they're deeply conservative or just plain confused.  The heart of the story centers around the McCarthy Communist witch-hunts of the 1950's.  It's one of the more shameful chapters in American history, and in an environment such as this, some may think it best that it's not brought up.  It raises criticisms of the American government.Certain critics will destroy this movie, while recommending transparent acts of audience pandering such as Pearl Harbor or Behind Enemy Lines.  I can't necessarily blame them; they're just concrete thinkers.  In those two films, it's as clear as day who the bad guy is In Pearl Harbor, it's us against the Japanese.  In Behind Enemy Lines, it's us against the Bosnians and NATO obstinance.But in The Majestic, its us against us, and therein lies the problem.  Being that the film was set into production last year, they had no way of knowing about the events of September eleventh.  But if this film were released next year with such a tragedy behind them, it would still be necessary to see this movie.  This country is in a Gung-Ho state, and many people feel that we should get the bad guy no matter what.  But what The Majestic shows is that if we try to defeat what we fear by breaking our own rules, it seals our certain doom.  It shows that America is something we keep in our hearts and in our minds, not something we slap on our bumper or have put on a t-shirt.It emphasizes feelings and thoughts over products and molds, and it should damn well be acknowledged.*** out of 4 "}{"Title":"Lightweight depiction","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film, directed by the usualy reliable Frank Darabont features Jim Carrey as a blacklisted hollywood screenwriter who suffers amnesia and winds up in a small town where he is mistaken for a young man lost in the war. While harmless and entertaining enough on its own, the film's portrayl of the blacklist and the McCarthy hearings is a tad too light, especially in light of todays climate in which these sort of witch hunts are starting to come back into style (see Ashcroft, John). In any event, Carrey's performance is somewhat lightweight and though the supporting cast is game, the film doesnt quite achieve it's goals. GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Spellbinding and Oscar-calibur!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sorry to disappoint those who want to bash this film, but I think we all need a dose of Capra-esque style filmmaking in our jaded times.  Jim Carrey did nothing short of an EXCELLENT job in this movie, playing serious against type.  For a while, I sort of expected him to suddenly break into a rubberface routine, but I was satisfied when he carried the character through the entire film.  Sure, the ending may have been what many expected going in, but think about it - what is so wrong with that?  As far as I am concerned, this one I will buy on video when it comes out, and I would rank it a 12 or higher if I could, so I have to settle for a 10.  It goes right up there with such recent films as FREQUENCY and FIELD OF DREAMS as inspiring.  Suggestion - when this comes out on video, rent it and a copy of MR. SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON.  Sit back and ENJOY! "},{"Title":"riveting","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slow to start, but soon become immersed in the characters and the insanity of the MacCarthy era.  At this time of heightened patriotic feelings (as then) this movie reinforces how fragile personal freedoms are. Interpersonal relationships could be fleshed out a bit more, but the film brings home again the point that humans see and believe what they desire to be rather than what is. "},{"Title":"Good, not great","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cant say that i didnt enjoy myself at this movie, but i can say that it had a few faults that prevented me from attaining the level of enjoyment as the movies that the trailer for The Majestic connected to, The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile.  First and foremost, i think that Jim Carrey probably should have attempted a few more mid ground movies before attempting this one, because i still cant shake his Ace Ventura persona. Second, where as the Green Mile and Shawshank really grabbed at emotion, the Majestic makes attempts to do this so incredibly obvious that it comes off as sometimes cheesy.  Third, the movie would have worked much better without the first act.  Fourth, the movie isn't exciting enough to sustain its 2 and 1/2 hour runtime. On to the good the acting is wonderful, and the scenery is perfect for the time it is trying to portray.  The movie really makes you yearn for a town like the one in the movie, where everyone knows everyone. It really relies on the characters as opposed to special effects or the scenery and isn't as gimmicky as the trailer or posters would have you believe.  On a scale of 1-10 with one being the worst, i rank this a 7.  Go see it in the theater, but if you can, catch a matinee. "},{"Title":"Best Film of 2001","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just got to say The Majestic is the best movie of the year 2001. Jim Carrey's acting is superb as well as the rest of the cast's acting. Jim Carrey no doubt has Oscar written all over him as well as the movie itself does. I saw this movie three times and I still loved it. I saw Lord of the Rings and trust me, LOTR is no where near as good as The Majestic is. I no doubt recommend this movie to everyone.10/10 "},{"Title":"A good performance","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Overall the movie was well done and made a good point regarding the US Constitution.  Jim Carrey did an excellent job in his first big dramatic role.  I'm glad that he's headed that way as he has lots of potential as a dramatic actor.  Don't get me wrong; he's excellent at slapstick comedy but I really enjoy his drama too.  I think this movie will pick up more at rental time because a lot of people will assume it's a comedy since Jim Carrey is in it.  Hopefully after a few more dramatic roles the comedy stereotype will wear off and he will be accepted more as a dramatic actor. Now if I can just figure out where to buy one of those wooden monkeys... ) (if anybody knows feel free to e-mail me!) "},{"Title":"A very pleasant film, a pleasure to watch.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, this is a corny story. Yes, the director tries to emulate the great Frank Capra. (Mr. Smith Goes to Washington)Yes, it has some obvious flaws in the story line and direction. But... We enjoyed it thoroughly. Jim Carey shows that he is a capable actor. He handles his part with understanding and honesty. Martin Landau is an Oscar candidate for his supporting role. A supposed dead WW2 hero suddenly shows up after 9 years to a small California town. Not one newspaper or radio station picks up the story? Hard to believe! A town where it seems everyone loves everyone else and not many of them have a job. Fantasy land. A brilliant neon art deco movie house, The Majestic, is resurrected by the good will of the town. Our hero, Jim Carey, makes fools out of a McCarthy-like congressional committee. Outragous! But, the whole movie leaves one with a good feeling and a hope for this country and humanity. So, whats not to like? rating 3*** (out of 5) "},{"Title":"just added to my top 10 favorites !","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  what a great ensemble cast !  jim carrey shows a range i never knew existed. all your favorite character actors and some fresh new faces too!  james whitmore and martin landau where unforgetable.  this is a perfect 'feel good' movie - the timing could not be any better.  thank you mr. darabont for yet another memorable film ! "},{"Title":"A little bit uneven...","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film seemed to get a little bit confused at times.  Was it merely telling a compelling story about an amnesic blacklisted screenwriter assuming the life of a fallen war hero?  Or was it more of a political film condemning McCarthyism and witchhunts and championing the first amendment?  And what does the plot really have to do with the theme?  Anything?I love Frank Darabont as a director.  I think he should direct more films because he does such an amazing job presenting early-to-mid 20th century periods and characters.  I think all 3 of his major films (The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile before this one) are aesthetically beautiful and entertaining.  He cut his teeth as a screenwriter and probably felt somewhat obligated to pay homage to his wronged predecessors by taking on this project.  I really wish he would have involved himself in the script more, though.Jim Carrey does a fine job portraying Peter Appleton, the blacklisted screenwriter who loses his memory and finds himself in a town who mistakes him for somebody else.  And I think it's a film worth watching...I really did enjoy it.  But I'm sure the studio saw this as an Oscar contender and it just isn't solid enough to be there.  There just wasn't much cohesion in the story and I'm sad to see a Darabont-directed film suffer from that. "},{"Title":"Next, Please!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately...I was so appalled by this movie that I couldn't even stay for the entire thing! Jim Carrey is SUCH a talented actor...but he's NOT a dramatic actor! The movie had a good plot, but it was so over-developed that I almost wanted to cry. Instead, me and the other four people I was with, just left. Stick to comedy Jim! "}{"Title":"A film you can see, as compared with some you shouldn't","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I almost skipped the film altogether since Kenneth Turan had given it a pretty bad review, and I don't care for Jim Carrey all that much anyway. Turned out it was O.K., fortunately Ebert and his buddy had reviewed it as well and both given it a Thumbs Up. It's pretty clear to me now that Turan does not get it, I think he kind of misses the point of it all.There are a lot of really bad films out there, this was not one of them. I am no Carrey fan by any means, I tend to avoid his films although I am still curious about Grinch and eventually might like to view it, who knows. But Carrey did not bring any harm to this film, that is the point I wanted to make. His part could have been played by any number of currently-available male leads; he played it about more-or-less the same as any of the others would have. The rest of the film works reasonably well, Rifkin & Holbrook (in the McCarthy-esque hearings-backdrop) have decent parts in it and Landau has a more significant role which he carries off competently. It was nice to see James Whitmore as well.I just don't get it with Mr. Turan. Seems like his standard is awfully darned high if you ask me.  Seems to me his job is to help me get to a weekend film I can be OK with, not  to one where I walk out shaking my head, saying, why did I bother?.   Regarding the storyline in the film, I'd bet most of the younger audience has no concept whatsoever of the McCarthy era, and at the very least this thing serves as a vehicle to introduce their vacant minds to it (Mom, what's a communist?). Regarding trains used in the film, there are a couple of errors, kind of amusing.I can understand Mr. Turan's criticisms in a broad sense, some of the individual points he makes are valid. Still, he seems to discourage the movie-goer and I just feel that it was a worthwhile film-fix for the most part.    ----- Mrow "},{"Title":"A Triumph For Jim Carrey","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really don't like to gush, but I've got to here. This is a great film. Everything about it is great including Jim Carrey (who I've never been overwhelmed by ... until now). I guess critics are just too cynical to understand a movie like this. This film works - it's not Dostoevsky or Kafka - it's a sentimental, Capra-esque (what's wrong with that - Capra was great), lightly comic tale. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Embalmed kitsch","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Watching Allen Garfield, that venerable character actor, play the agent of a fifties Hollywood screenwriter named Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey), a slick opportunist falsely accused of membership in the communist party, it dawned on me that something was wrong.Garfield, a wonderful caricaturist when given crazy material (as in PUTNEY SWOPE and Tarantino's first movie, MY BEST FRIEND'S BIRTHDAY), comes across sheepish and overpolite in the presence of tony stuff. The dialogue the agent is handed lacks flair, and it needs an actor with a bit of Coen Brothers pizzazz--a Michael Lerner, a Tony Shalhoub, how about Alan King? Then I realized, with horror, the secret of everything that's wrong with THE MAJESTICThe director, Frank Darabont, would consider Alan King...TOO EDGY.One of the funniest things I've ever seen was Jim Carrey's appearance on Saturday Night Live playing Jimmy Stewart attacking Jim Carrey (played by another actor). I-I-I-I'm Ji-jim Carrey! he stuttered. I-I-I-I need attention twe-twe-twennyfour hours a DAY! One of the second funniest things I've ever seen was Carrey's appearance on the final episode of The Larry Sanders Show, as himself. Waxing maudlin and smarmy with Garry Shandling's Sanders on his final telecast, Carrey, when they cut to commercial, turned into a vicious, homicidal, narcissistic freak--a psycho version of what we all fear Jim Carrey might be.Why Frank Darabont, who directed THE MAJESTIC, and almost certainly saw both of those performances, thought Carrey was his man for a slice of Jimmy Stewart retroism the likes of which hasn't been seen in a studio movie in sixty years boggles the imagination. And why Darabont, Carrey and Warner Bros. thought this silo full of picket-fence cliches was worthy of an eight-figure budget doesn't just boggle, it stupefies.Carrey's Peter is a sharpie with a hot screenwriting career, a hot babe on his arm, a new Benz, and a date with HUAC--and he plans to sing like Caruso to straighten that little problem out.Carrey as a heartless Sammy Glick seems like a decent jumping-off place for some juicy, cynical yuks. Then Peter cracks up his car, bonks his head, and gets one of those selective cases of amnesia that only exist in movies. (He can remember scenes from THE LIFE OF EMILE ZOLA, but not who he is.) A small town embraces him as their long-lost son Luke--a local hero who, so the town thought, died in the Big One. When HUAC's goons come snooping for their latest prey, a date with small-town destiny is made.This set-up--a slightly politicized version of Preston Sturges' HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO--seems like it might yield the HBO-ish, smarty-pants conceits of something like Gary Ross' PLEASANTVILLE, where our awareness of the phoniness of Ozzie-and-Harriet America is put through subversive paces.PLEASANTVILLE seemed behind the times in its critique of images of Norman Rockwellism that no longer dominate the culture; but at least Ross was cool enough to give us Ozzies and Harriets who, in their dark hours, burn books, enact Jim Crow laws, and try to rape their neighbors in back alleys. Darabont plays this stuff so straight you might think the movie was directed by a Stepford wife. Scene after scene gives us decent, plainspoken folk who honor their fallen dead; give each other comfort in the local diner; erect civic monuments; dance to Pennsylvania 6-5000; and deliver choked-up speeches about Old Glory, Iwo Jima, Thomas Jefferson, Jimmy Stewart, apple pie and Chevrolet. One waits for the other shoe to drop--to discover that Carrey's small-town father (Martin Landau) is having an affair with that Darabont staple, the Poor But Wise Black Man, or that the town has cannibalized the real dead war hero in a nearby basement, or that the town is really full of communists, or Nazis, or body-snatchers... but no such luck. Darabont lopes from one Kodak moment to the next, stretching the movie's thin incidents to a head-crushing two hours and thirty minutes.The one positive thing about THE MAJESTIC is that it will give the lie to the belief that post-9/11 audiences will want sappy, uplifting, patriotic kitsch. There have been more inept movies than THE MAJESTIC this year, but probably none so contemptible--particularly in its coopting of the McCarthy period to make its reactionary social politics seem more...centrist. (We are meant to believe that the First Amendment defends Peter's collegiate flirtation with communism. How would audiences respond if an analogous contemporary character had a brief college flirtation with the Taliban?) Everything about the movie, from the deliberately hoky and artificial clinches between Peter and his mannequinlike small-town girlfriend, to the appearances of equally waxy actors like Hal Holbrook and James Whitmore, has a musty squareness about it, as if moviemaking for Darabont begins and ends with creakers like TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD and INHERIT THE WIND. Darabont is a sucker for pious, defiant speechmaking and homilies about community and courage and the triumph of the human spirit. One suspects that Darabont's infatuation with this stuff derives from a) an unhealthy obsession with Steven Spielberg and b) a career-long tunneling toward the Oscar. But even the Oscars are hipper than this stuff now. Like Lasse Halstrom, Darabont needs to be sent to the showers--for a reeducation in what makes a prestige picture nowadays.Darabont is so stuck in a time warp he would seem to require medication. "},{"Title":"Great effort falls a little short","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would have to say that it was a great effort by the makers of the film to make this an emotionally captivating motion picture.  The effort was there, but I think the result was not.  I felt that Jim Carrey's performance was fantastic, truly deserving of having more people recognize him as an all around actor.  Personally, I felt no emotional ties with the characters in the movie.  This might be a spoiler, but I didn't like the fact that the audience knew the real identity of Carrey's character at the beginning of the movie.  I felt that this took some of the interest out of the movie. It just became a matter of time before the other characters in the movie knew. How they were going to come to that realization didn't really matter to me. I didn't feel upset one way or the other.  If we didn't know at the beginning of the movie, then the audience could experience different feelings throughout the movie like betrayal, sadness, a wanting to believe. We as the audience could then connect more with the other characters in the movie, not to mention Carrey's character.  I really did like the way the movie was filmed, mainly the time period setting.  I thought it added well to the film and helped make it more entertaining.Overall, I have to give The Majestic a 6/10.  Wasn't that bad of a movie to see on Christmas. "},{"Title":"Ignore the critics, one of the best of the year!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe just about every critic but Ebert is ripping this film. Just an exclamation point on the fact that you should never go by what critics say.  While I thought Darabont was a little off his beat with The Green Mile, he returns to Shawshank Redemption form with The Majestic, a movie that should, but won't be in the running for the Oscars next year. Jim Carrey gives his first truly Oscar caliber dramatic performance, and every one else in the cast is pitch perfect as well. Laurie Holden, previously only seen by me in The X-Files, gives a breakout performance as well.  This film, contrary to what the critics will tell you, is not drenched in fake sentimentality, but it may seem that way as it is the first big studio picture in a long time to invest enough development into the characters that you care about them and become emotionally attached to them. As much fire as this is gonna bring down on me, while I really enjoyed Fellowship Of The Ring, I feel this film is actually the one to take the crown of best movie I've seen this year. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the year hands down!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is no doubt the best movie of the year. Lord of the Rings, eat your heart out. Jim Carrey gives a wonderful performance, as do all the other actors in this film. This movie was so good I already saw it twice. This picture moved and it should move you. This movie you can take the whole family to see. I recommend it 100%!10/10 "},{"Title":"An amazing film","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just recently had the chance to see this movie and I have to say it is worth every penny. There are parts that will make you cry, laugh and really think about life. Jim Carrey's performance was excellent I love to see him in a serious movie; I'm not a big Jim Carrey fan but when his dramas come around their excellent.4 stars for this film and I truly recommend it to everyone.  Jim Carrey better at least get an Oscar nomination for his performance.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen in a long while","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was great.  The plot is amazing, it really touches all of your emotions.  Go out and see this movie.  A cumulative rating of 6.6 is way too low, hopefully this movie gets the revenue it deserves.  Some of Jim's best work, the whole cast did a great job, 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"walking out guarantee","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My expectations were too high going in, and whenever I do that, I basically guarantee walking out disappointed.  And to a certain degree, I was.But after thinking about it for awhile, I shouldn't have been disappointed at all.  Jim is wonderful in this picture, and the supporting of Landau and Holden, were also great performances.  The story was interesting enough.  The hook was there in the beginning as Jim's character adjust to the new life.  The hook was there when he starts to figure out he's not who everyone thinks he is (the Carrey and Landau scene, with this hook involved, is the best scene I've seen in at the movies this yEAR).  And the hook was pretty much there in the end.  But fails to really send me home without being a tad disappointed.  But that's my fault for having high expectations, not really the movie makers fault.  I think about the ending now, and I guess that's how the movie should end... but, for some reason, I don't feel like that's how it should have ended. Darabont is a talented writer and director, and I just don't know how much say he had in changing the Majestic from the script (especially in a movie that was poking fun at how the writer's original ideas gets changed).  But alongside Stephen King, he had turned the Shawshank Redemption as a movie, and in the screenplay, an even better told story than the Stephen King short alone.  The Majestic is long, many have complained, but I rather enjoy sitting down for a long one because there's more than just the Carrey, Landau, and Holden characters you meet along the way in the small town that really help the story too.The Majestic is a great movie.  The story was a good choice in getting through messages of truth, and it's patriotic storyline couldn't have come at a better time.  I enjoyed the performances of Carrey and Landau together.  The musical score was good, although I miss Thomas Newman of Shawshank and Green Mile (and the opening theme of Boston Public... I couldn't resist).  And I think being disappointed walking out of the theatre... is now more a disappointment at myself.  I should've had loved this movie.          "},{"Title":"One of the better movies of the year","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great film in all aspects. It was a really good make you feel good movie and Jim Carrey was brilliant. The Fact is Frank Darbont the director is a fabulous filmmaker and this movie is no exception. I give it a 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A stylized vibe piece-- pretty darn good!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read hot and cold reviews of The Majestic, but I really liked it. I'm from a little town such as the one depicted-- and I could recite tons of errors-- viz., WAY too many expensive street lights (what kind of tax base would a tiny little hamlet have to pay for all that?)  ETC.... but all of that is just quibbling. It's not meant to be a documentary. Rather, it's meant to be a fable, evocative, a study in vibes. And for that-- it is sharp, pleasant, and well worth your time.I would have given it a 9 out of ten, except for one flaw-- early on, the director evidently choose to place the microphone halfway down Jim Carey's throat. Thus, I am guessing, the director felt we would all hear his slurping, breathing, saliva movements, food chewing, etc. a lot more clearly. I also guess that the director falsely believes that such bodily functions brought to the 60' x 40' screen somehow conveys an artsy vividness and gritty, down and dirty real life. It just made me want to scream.PLEASE--- mothers of all future directors-- teach your children about good manners, and decorum, and how to NOT gross out the public in the misguided aim of Art. Teach them to avoid indulging their film school conceits, and stop with the Dolby Digital chewing and slurping already!So, for the tracheal flatulence, I gave The Majestic am 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Carrey proved his ability to act","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Carrey proved the he can act. He provided an excellent performance and was supported by the most seasoned assemble of actors in Hollywood. Landau was outstanding and very convincing in his performance. Felt it was excellent entertainment and balanced in the story line. Feel good movie. "},{"Title":"A Pretty Movie","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very good movie, very honest heart warming story. Some of the best lines I'll ever hear from a movie, Is this the America i fought for I was in awe, when Carrey was giving his speech towards the end of the movie. Jim Carrey truly is a great actor, a very funny actor, a very honest loyal loving man. I respect him with all my heart, with this movie he's yet captivated my mind, and heart once more. 10/10 For both the movie, and Jim Carrey.  "},{"Title":"A Modern, Capraesque Masterpiece","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic was alongside Ali the film I had been looking the most forward to this year. Frank Darabont directing Jim Carrey could never go wrong. The buzz after some pre-screenings has shown the opposite, so I went into the theater not expecting too much. Fortunately, the buzz missed the mark.This is not the best movie of the year, but it's not far behind. It requires an open mind, as there are a few aspects of the film one can dislike if one really wants to. With an open mind, it is a refreshingly sweet story with quite a bit of sentiment to it. It praises the cinema and it praises the good of man. The word capraesque has been used a lot about this movie, as I agree it should have. The film does reflect Frank Capra's work, and it captures the Capra spirit. I believe the use of capraesque may have worked against the movie, though. Many Capra fans will dislike this film just because some have dared comparing a modern film with the master.The film also deals with patriotism in a more subtle and acceptable manner than what we are used to lately. It includes a witch-hunt for communists and does so with a modern, politically correct view, which may be unsettling for some overly patriotic Americans. This part of the film takes part mostly in the last hour, and I think the film might have been even better if this had been left out, but it is still a very good choice.Jim Carrey is spectacular as the man given the chance of beginning all over again. This is a fascinating thought, and Carrey interacts with it perfectly. His role is not better than Russell Crowe's (A Beautiful Mind) but if there were any justice in the world, he would at least finally win his nomination. However, I think both Jim Carrey and me have given up on that hope after him being ripped off twice already.It is also a joy to see the classical beauty Laurie Holden. She has the grace of a 50's movie star and is the perfect choice. I think that many will dislike this film but more will love it. It sure feels great to let yourself go to an emotional film like this.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"An enjoyable holiday movie with a timely patriotic feel that's worth checking out in the theatre...","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With the winning combination of director Frank Darabont (The Green Mile, The Shawshank Redemption) and Jim Carrey, Hollywood should be seeing dollar signs already. This warm and fuzzy movie is perfect for the holidays and has quite a bit going for it. Darabont continues his pattern of using nostalgic settings, loveable characters, and a sense of wonder that recalls Capra, Spielberg and Stephen King (his non-horror works). Carrey does a fine job in yet another serious role. Although he may not get nominated for any awards, he does a fine job and it should be noted that he has diversity and can handle a serious role just as well as a comedic one.With a running time of two-and-a-half hours, this one goes by pretty quickly. The film is easy to follow and all of the acting is quite good, especially Martin Landau's performance. The post-WWII mentality is pretty striking, especially after the events of September 11th. The patriotic moments should strike a chord with many viewers. Although some scenes are shamefully tearjerkers, they work well to get the viewer involved with the characters. The only cheesy sequence is a predictable yet silly courtroom scene towards the end. Overall, this is a good movie to take the family or a date to. It's not necessarily a masterpiece, but quite enjoyable and timely. Fans of Carrey or Darabont will not be disappointed. This one is worth catching in the theatre, but will not lose much in the transfer if you wait for video. "},{"Title":"Moving turn for Jim Carrey","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw a preview screening of this film and was very impressed with it. Jim Carrey's performance is one of his best.  He is, in turn, funny, dramatic, moving, and extremely good in one of his few serious roles.  After seeing this, I'm of the opinion that he is a better serious actor than he is a comedic actor, though his talents in both genres are prodigious.  Martin Landau's performance is also wonderful as the father who thinks his dead son has returned from being missing in action from WW2.  The movie gets a little bit too much of the Rah Rah, let's go up against the big, bad government and win bit near the end, but on the whole the story holds together pretty well.  The period clothes, sets, props and cars seem to be dead on 1951. The breakout star of this movie, despite Carrey's wonderful turn, is Laurie Holden as Adele, the girl that Luke(the dead son)left behind to go to war. Her performance just breaks your heart as the girl who hopes that Carrey really is Luke come back to life, but in her heart knows he isn't him. Their scenes where they get to know each other and fall in love are wonderful and Ms. Holden moves through them with a wonderful naturalness. I was very, very impressed with her.  Her background seems to be mostly in television, but her performance here shoots her into the ranks of promising young stars who should go on to great things.All in all, it's a wonderful movie, a little bit too long, but not enough that you will be shifting around in your seat and looking at your watch. "},{"Title":"A few warm and fuzzies never hurt anyone.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  By Greg UrsicLife is never as easy as it should be - if you're not getting yelled at by your boss, or worrying about that next mortgage payment, there is always another little bundle of stress waiting in line.  While everyone at one time or another has thought about walking out the door and simply not coming back, but of the thousands of people that I've known, precisely one has ever done it.  What stops us?  Conscience?  Fear?  What if you could reinvent yourself without even trying, and things were better than before and the only price was a blow to the head?  Save my place in line.As a screenwriter, Peter Appleton has to sit through meetings and listen while studio hacks butcher his script.  But it's a price he's willing to pay- his first film was recently released, he's dating a starlet, he drives a nice car, and he's going places.  Peter's neatly ordered world begins to unravel when he discovers he's being investigated for attending a communist meeting twenty years earlier.  Confused and upset, he goes for long drive, and gets into an accident near a small town named Lawson. Left with amnesia, Peter struggles to remember his past, but is overwhelmed by the townspeople who insist he is Luke, a local hero who went missing in the Big One nine years earlier. The question that presents itself is which past and present will Peter be left with?Jim Carrey knows the curse of typecasting.  After outstanding dramatic performances in Man On the Moon (which should have gotten him an Oscar nomination) and The Truman Show, Carrey still can't escape his take as a rubber-faced goon in such films as Ace Ventura and Dumb and Dumber. But he's not about to give in. As Peter, Carrey creates a well-rounded reluctant hero.  He is careful to balance the complex duality of his character(s), alternately subdued and enthusiastic, only occasionally, lapsing into melodrama.  The supporting cast does just that, supports the main character, with the exception of Martin Landau, who gives a touching portrayal of father who has rediscovered life through his son.Frank Darabont films share three common elements they're set in prison, they're long, and I like them - and The Majestic is no exception (except for the prison aspect). Unlike the last amnesiac-as-protagonist film I saw (Memento - which I thought was excellent)  Majestic is far less cynical and dare I say, a feel good piece. Darabont's team has created the ideal small town feel, populated with quirky characters and totally divorced from the hustle of Hollywood. I do have a few concerns however.At 2 ½ hours, the film runs a bit long - I think they could have trimmed it down by at least 15 minutes without losing any substantial elements.  My main complaint is that the Mr Smith Goes to Washington style speech near the end of the film, and it's consequences do not mesh  (further elaboration would ruin the ending).The Majestic is the kind of film that people want to see at Christmas -it's light, requires little thought and will leave you with a warm feeling inside (even though you'll probably feel a bit manipulated). "},{"Title":"A movie made now with a feeling of a story written in the 1950's.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Hollywood film writer has amnesia and is mistaken for a small town war hero. This movie is set during the early 1950's, when McCarthyism effected every part of the country and the entertainment industry. Frank Darabont put a nostalgic look and feel in The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile. This movie is no different for his third directed feature film. It has touches of nostalgia in every part of the story. The Majestic is beautifully done well with the acting and the scenery.  "},{"Title":"The chance that the profiling of innocent people could have special meaning after 9/11 is lost amid the simple flag waving of a movie that has no universal appeal but the disgust of patrons who have to sit t","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Director Frank Darabont commented that the movie within the movie of `The Majestic' starring Jim Carrey was the best part of making the film. He said, ''I got to shoot it in black and white, the dolly bumped when it was moving, and the set looks a little cardboard . . . . It was perfect!'' Would that the rest of the movie had this charm.Darabont must have been counting his money from `Shawshank Redemption' and `The Green Mile'; Jim Carrey must have been remembering he pulled off `Truman Show.'  Probably distracted by these successes, neither director nor star apparently read this insipid screenplay closely or watched the sophomoric daily's because they surely would have known they created one of the worst films this year, and maybe ever.Darabont presents Carrey as a writer in the &#145;50's accused of being a communist. After he has recovered from amnesia and started a new life in an idyllic town, Carrey gives a courtroom speech at the end about the constitution, probably inspired by Jimmy Stewart's patriotic Capracorn in `Mr. Smith goes to Washington.' But Darabont plays it all for the syrup, where Capra deftly showed the underside of American freedom while he praised it.All issues in this movie are telegraphed by way of the most cliched stereotypes ever assembled in one film, from the blond, blue eyed childhood sweetheart and her benevolent town doctor father to the cynical, disabled misfit who finally turns good.  You could guess every plot moment and predict every character move.The chance that the profiling of innocent people could have special meaning after 9/11 is lost amid the simple flag waving of a movie that has no universal appeal but the disgust of patrons who have to sit through the escalating 2 ½ hours of posturing piousness.An artist friend of mine shouted at the end of the film, `Let me out of here!' "},{"Title":"A little bit Capra","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Derivative and predictable, nonetheless a tear jerker that leaves you rooting for the good guy. Capra-esque enough to make me wonder why they bothered remaking it. However, the cast is excellent. Jim Carrey handles the sentimentality very well, while not losing that sparkle in his eye.The supporting cast ranges from familiar faces -- James Whitmore, David Ogden Stiers, Hal Holbrook, and Martin Landau -- to relative unknowns. The lead actress Laurie Holden does a great job playing a heartbroken war-girlfriend, fresh out of law school, who returns home to find the boyfriend still alive -- almost 10 years later!A good, clean, old-fashioned movie. I'd happily recommend it to Mom and Dad.  "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into The Majestic expecting to see a Very Good movie, since Frank Darabont directed the wonderful films, The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile. I also had high expectations for Jim Carrey who acted marvelously and was snubbed of an oscar for both, Truman Show and Man on the Moon. This movie starts off on a light note and seems rather boring until the part where they decide to build the movie theatre. From there on the movie gets really interesting. Carrey is very subtle and does a great job. He deserves a nomination, but I expect Carrey to get snubbed again. I would have to say that The Majestic was a good movie but I expected more. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw a sneak preview of this film, and it is great.  For those who like Jim Carrey (and those who don't), this is quite different from anything he's ever done.  You'll leave feeling inspired, awe-struck, and even patriotic.  Probably the best movie I've seen this year.  Don't miss it.  "},{"Title":"Nice tribute to the generation that saved the world","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** The Majestic   (7 out of 10)The Majestic is Jim Carrey's latest attempt at being a dramatic actor. He yearns to be taken seriously almost to the point of desperation. Unfortunately, he isn't successful but he does show promise.  At the height of sadness he looks strained, when he's in love he looks like he's ready to burst out laughing and at the absolute breaking point he is not nearly angry enough.  Maybe he under acted as an attempt to show the calmer, more sophisticated fifties or maybe he just needs to work on it a little bit. He is likable in Majestic but he is lacking the one major element every dramatic actor needs to play off of, conflict.It's 1951 and Peter Appleton (Carrey) is a successful screen writer.  His first B-movie, Sand Pirates of the Sahara, has just hit the big screen, he's dating the film's beautiful star and he has another picture, Ashes to Ashes, in the works.  The early 1950's were a dark era for Hollywood. The government had developed committees that blacklisted members of the entertainment industry because of their political ties, particularly ties to the communist party.  Peter was not immune.  He found himself suddenly, unwittingly labeled a communist.  The studio stopped production of Ashes to Ashes, his girlfriend left him and the House Un-American Activities Committee launched a full scale investigation.Disheartened and alone, Peter decides to drive away from his troubles. His plan goes awry, however, when his car goes off a bridge.  He wakes up on a beach outside a small town called Lawson with no memory of his previous existence.  Martin Landau, who plays Harry Trimble, discovers Peter and is convinced that he is his son, Luke Trimble.  Luke was a World War II soldier who was missing in action and presumed dead.  The town embraces their long lost son while Luke's girlfriend, Adele, played by Laurie Holden, does her best to help him get his memory back.A new spirit of adventure is awakened in Harry and he decides to reopen his theater, The Majestic, which was closed shortly after the war.  Reluctant at first, Peter finally espouses his would-be father's attitude and organizes the reconstruction of the once proud cinema house.  The entire town soon gets energized with Majestic fever.  Everyone does anything and everything they can do to help out.  Peter is discovering a new-found sense of belonging and celebrating his own re-awakening.  But his past is about to catch up with him.The most touching aspect of The Majestic is the post-World War II mentality.  Lawson lost a lot of young men to the war and the struggle for the families to recover even six years later is aided by one of their own returning.  The mayor, who lost two sons in the war,  declares that seeing Luke was like seeing one of his own boys coming home.  In a city where the WWII memorial is kept in a Town Hall basement because it's just too painful to display, Luke is welcomed with open arms.  It is because of Peter that Lawson begins to heal after a long period of mourning.The only real strife in the movie is the fear that Peter will remember his real identity and the fact that the FBI is looking for and will eventually catch up to him.  Unfortunately, the terrifying ordeal that was the Hollywood Blacklist was barely touched upon.  Also, the real committee meetings in Hollywood were far more severe than the ones portrayed in The Majestic. But, it is the underlying message that far exceeds any turmoil that Peter encounters.  The theme remember the heroes of WWII was almost as profound in this film as it was in any WWII action movie.  Heroes are honored and fallen sons are remembered in an affecting tribute.The Majestic is a feel-good movie, albeit a long one (nearly two and a half hours).  Peter described his new film as a portrayal of pain, nobility and the human condition and that could be said The Majestic as well. It's a nice journey of love, courage and honor but not a lot of anything else. But, in this time when heroes are being honored almost daily, The Majestic's poignant memorials are even more vital.  We must never forget the men and women who served in WWII.  They are the generation that saved the world and The Majestic is one movie that lets them know their sacrifices will never be forgotten. "},{"Title":"  The   most important  vision  of  you   is  in  my  memories ","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Americas wars which separate the changing eras of the United States also separate the synthetic fears created by shadowy men in the same country. Occasionally and irrationally, we allow these tyrants to segregate us according to conforming ideology and briefly appear too powerful to stop. Yet, it is often a single individual who initiates the courageous task of standing up to them. A good example is this exceptional story called  The Magestic  which was written by Michael Slone. It tells the story of Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey, superior performance) a notable writer of the 1950's who's written screenplay comes under the myopic scrutiny of Congressman Doyal (Hal Holbrook), the Committee of Un-American Activities and their agent (Bob Balaban). Suspected of being a communist sympathizer Appleton's studio contract is canceled and he is summoned before the totalitarian committee. Dispondent and depressed he goes for a drunken ride in his car, crashes off a bridge and ends up on a beach. There he is saved, nursed back to health and surprisingly resurrected as a lost son and hero of WWII. Suffering from Amneisia, he accepts the premise, he is the returning Medal of Honor son of Harry Trimble (Martin Landau). David Ogden Stiers, James Whitmore, Brent Briscoe and Laurie Holden, all play townsfolk who are convinced Appleton is Luke Trimble. His return stirs life back into the town and enough energy to resurrect the Town's only theater called the Majestic. However, the witch hunting committee seeks him out and gives him an impossible choice, one which will scar him for life. This film is a sobering role for Carrey and one which will endear him to his many fans as he creates a Classic with enough power to crown his already magnificent career. Excellent Movie! **** "},{"Title":"a jumbled mess","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cliché, incoherent, and tries hard but fails are a few things that come to mind when I think of this movie. This movie was written as if some fast talking eccentric started spouting out an idea for a movie and just randomly threw in every conceivable way to detract from a main flow or main theme until it made no sense. I can see it now. ok now let's make it about a guy out on his luck, and then we'll change it to a love story, and then we'll make it a father/son story. Then we'll make it about how America is a free country. In the middle we'll have the resentful guy who comes around, and then we'll make the town hate him. Then we'll make them love him. Brilliant! If I had to make one key observation about this movie, it would be that if they took each separate storyline which actually made sense and built maybe 3 or 4 different movies around that theme, all four of those movies could have been decent movies. But the writer decided to take those three or four incompatible themes and fit them into one movie. Then he decided to call it The Majestic Jim Carey is an underrated actor, and Frank Darabont is a decent director. Those are the only things that same this movie from being a total disaster. "},{"Title":"Slightly slushy. Tad predictable. But I liked it.","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jim Carrey first started off by basically contorting his elastic face and making a career out of it. He's an energetic actor to be sure. And sometimes he succeeds. In films like The Mask and The Grinch. But sometimes he goes far off the mark, like Liar Liar and Bruce Almighty.In recent years he's tried to show audiences that he has got a serious side. But like his comedies, this has worked to variable effect. People are not always willing to embrace him when he tackles dramatic stuff. Sometimes they do, like the superb The Truman Show. And sometimes they don't, like The Majestic.Directed by Frank Darabont, the man behind The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile, he has crafted a Capraesque fable, with Jim Carrey as the modern day James Stewart.Carrey plays Peter Appleton, a screenwriter living in 1950s Hollywood. His perfect life takes a nosedive when he's accused of being a Communist, because when he was a kid, he attended a Communist meeting for the express purpose of impressing a girl he had the hots for.Blacklisted by the studio, he gets drunk and accidentally drives off a bridge where he suffers a head injury. The next morning he finds himself washed ashore in the town of Lawson, with no memory of who he is. But the townspeople embrace him as Luke Trimble, one of their own lost in WW2. Luke's father Harry (Martin Landau) is overjoyed to have his 'son' back from the dead, and the two work together to restore The Majestic, a cinema they ran in Lawson's heyday. But the FBI are on Peter's trail.When The Majestic was released in 2001, it was quite a sizable box-office flop. And that could have been for any number of reasons. One could be that Jim Carrey fans always treat his serious performances with derision. Maybe the film seems a bit old-fashioned in these cynical post 9/11 days. Or maybe because people just don't go in for heartwarming stories anymore.The Majestic is not without some flaws. Yes it is occasionally a little too sentimental. And the town of Lawson is a world that only exists in the mindset of Frank Capra and his acolytes. But I did enjoy this film. Quite a bit actually.Of all the performances Jim Carrey has given, this must rank as the sanest. He has never played it so straight in anything else. Not even in The Truman Show. And its such a rare pleasure to see him in something that doesn't involve manic mugging and facial contortions. He's quite well suited to the part because he brings an amiable affability in the vein of James Stewart, and despite initial doubts, it doesn't take long for him to convince us of his situation.I must admit that I am a bit of a sucker for films that celebrate the movie-going experience. Films like Matinée and The Purple Rose of Cairo. The Majestic is not on their level, perhaps because for a time it embraces that quality, but then shelves it aside in the third act. But I did enjoy the scenes of Peter/Luke and Harry restoring The Majestic cinema, and seeing it in all its glory brought satisfaction to my heart.Typically being a Frank Darabont film, The Majestic has a sizable running time. But even at 2 1/2 hours I barely noticed. Perhaps because Darabont has that ability to bring an essentiality to his storytelling and characters. The finest example being The Shawshank Redemption. He went a little overboard in The Green Mile, but nonetheless, Darabont's films are always intensely watchable.And as usual, Darabont has assembled another top-drawer cast of characters. Best of all is Martin Landau. The situation called for here could have been ripe with clichés and although there are one or two, Landau being the great actor that he is avoids most of them through his acting. He brings the right dash of sincerity that the film so desperately needs, which is what allows The Majestic to transcend its occasionally ropey storyline.I also liked Laurie Holden as Adele, Luke's one-time girlfriend. She makes for an appealing love interest, and quite lights up the screen whenever she's around. David Ogden Stiers is on good form as Adele's father, who asks a lot of the right questions a lesser film wouldn't dare to ask. And Gerry Black is good value as the cinema usher who sees right through 'Luke', but preserves the lie to pave the way for a greater happiness.In the final act, when Peter recovers his memory and stands before Congress, it has to be said it becomes rather heavy-handed and moralistic. And although it's leavened by some welcome doses of Carrey's trademark humour, I still think the ending is just a little too predictable.But nonetheless, The Majestic has some fine unexpected qualities. Watched through a cynical eye, its mawkish, trite and unpalatable. Watched through a hopeful eye, its refreshing, courteous and in these cold, post 9/11 days, that much more welcome. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie!!!","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish the studios and the public would let Jim Carrey do more of these movies!!! He was excellent in it and I suppose some of it has to do with the movie content being so special!!! I was born after WWII and lived during the Viet Nam war and I had always wished things were the same when Viet Nam Vets came home, so I guess part of me just feels good when I see it. I have seen it many times and it still makes me cry and feel so many emotions!! It is well done and if nothing else the scenery is beautiful too!!! We think we are in scary times now, but I can't imagine being an adult during the McCarthy Era. So scary for everyone and fearful of everyone else during that time. "},{"Title":"a new face for carry","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this comment may contain spoilers actually i didn't like Jim Carey as a comedian actor and movies like the mask and dumb and dumber didn't even make laugh. yet here he managed to prove that he is a well-established actor who can shoulder a responsibility of a great romantic drama. here we see another face of Carey, a beautiful face which he has rarely used throughout his career. actually he has done himself a great injustice by wasting his talent in moves like the previously mentioned ones which mainly depend on some exaggerated facial expressions and body movements. yet it is not CareY alone who excelled in his role but so was martin landau in harry and above all frank darabont who managed to create an atmosphere of intimacy and warmth that used to characterize small communities at that time strong emotions that bond all the residents of the town including the mayor who represents the authority, thanks to a number of excellent actors. i liked the committee scene as it is meant to be a reminder of the importance of public opinion as a source of stress that could put things back on the right track. the committee didn't accuse him for fear of making him a martyr before the public. Carey was gorgeous especially when he said that the America Luke died defending is not the America they are living in today because by such witch-hunt America is robbed of one of its great merits which is democracy and freedom of conviction and he starts reading out one of the articles of the American constitution with tears suffocating his voice and a state of disorder and mess controlling the hall (it was a very significant hint from both the writer and director). besides i was also affected by the idea of the old theater and what it represented to harry and the whole town and linking its re-innovation to the rebirth of this town through Luke's return "},{"Title":"The majestic - something makes we think again about ourself","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Majestic is not talk about the magic as its title . But in the film, we can find the majestic. The film is about a Hollywood actor. He seemed to enjoy his life as a actor with the film usually considered B . Nothing wouldn't have been special if one day he had not been accused of having involved with a organization, which is called The Communist/( i don't know its right or wrong). And something happened while he was driving. An accident and then , he got amnesia. And naturally, he was a new-comer in a nice , quite village. He was a new-but-not-really new comer. Everyone seemed to know him before. And he didn't know what happened to him before. As getting amnesia , he accepted everything people around telling him. And he got a dad, who he couldn't image him his dad. He got the support from many people, huggings, kisses, welcome-home sayings passively.The film seems very slight and slow but you cant not leave this film till the end if you are not a person brutal and emotionless with the so-called love. Love here is not love between girl and a boy. Love here is love between people and people , dad and son. This son helped his dad decorate their old cinema. This cinema with the name Majestic like the title of the film. Thats MAJESTIC. Majestic of love. The cinema is the result of love, unity and art. He was mistaken for Luke , a person died because he bore strong resemblance with Luke. But Luke here is different. The true Luke could play piano classical but Luke here played jazz. Thats the thing seemed interesting. At the end of film, he turned back to his true-self . He had a speech to the court , to the American and to us. The speech is not only for the court but it also for us, the government. It made we think about ourself , have we ever thought about what we have done? The film is touching. It creates a slight feeling in my heart. It made me think much about my life.Sometimes, we cant image what we will face with in the future. And may be it will change our whole life. We may step to a new road and realize that the road we did walked before was really not for us. in this life, people always run after money , fame , so that, we have lost ourself but we cant realize. We may do many things people tell us to do though it fights our conscience. With all the film wants to send is so valuable and good actors , this film is enjoyable. Jasime here was awesome. He acts well and his expression of emotion is so good. He was not a usual comedy actor like the others films he has acted. What i have told you about is for my dual purpose bring this film to you and make you accept my vote 8/10.( i am a strict person when voting, so 8 is really high to me) ^^ "},{"Title":"An ode to American idealism.","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked it. I realize some will dismiss the film because of its Rockwell-like sentiment (and because it's fashionable to dislike anything that's too sentimental these days), but I also think the story is balanced by an undertone of nasty, ugly reality. Remember, Jim Carrey's screenwriter is thrown into a rather spectacular series of events which end up with him taking an adventure in an almost latter-day Wonderland. A credit to his dramatic acting ability, he has a kind of wary disconnection throughout the whole film. (Even as he lives amongst all the virtue, idealism and patriotism of the Lawson citizens he does not seem to entirely believe it.) But every Oz must have its Kansas, and even Carrey 'wakes up' towards the end of the film to deal with the ugliness of the HUAC witch-hunt. But my favorite performer- and indeed the best thing in the movie- is Martin Landau. His patriarch who wears his heart on his sleeve is absolutely stunning throughout, and he gives the story a lot of earnestness and optimism (especially when he talks about the magic of movies- which I admit I kind of agree with). A strong second best performance comes from Laurie Holden, playing the beautiful law student who may (or may not) know Carrey from the past. Check it out. "}{"Title":"Heart-warming, Sentimental, and Patriotic","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The story has enough twists to keep your interest, and it's full of heart warming sentiment and love of country. The acting is fine and Carrey's pretty believable, but the gem to be found here is the great Martin Landau. For me, this is a film that can be seen over and over. The only weak points are the marquee and vertical sign for the Majestic nothing in a town that size would ever approach the size of that thing, and the amount of unsupported neon tubing in it could only stand up in a scale model or a computer generation. Never mind the complex electrical repairs! Also, that diesel engine that Luke rides into town sure looks futuristic. But, movies demand the suspension of disbelief, and if you can manage it, this is a rewarding story and a good showcase of the other side of Carrey's talent. "},{"Title":"This is my favorite move.","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all time. Enough said. I loved it so much that I have only seen it once because I do not want to over watch it. This is the only movie I have ever decided to do this with. This is my favorite movie of all time. Enough said. I loved it so much that I have only seen it once because I do not want to over watch it. This is the only movie I have ever decided to do this with. This is my favorite movie of all time. Enough said. I loved it so much that I have only seen it once because I do not want to over watch it. This is the only movie I have ever decided to do this with. This is my favorite movie of all time. Enough said. I loved it so much that I have only seen it once because I do not want to over watch it. This is the only movie I have ever decided to do this with.-Kevin "},{"Title":"A feel good tear jerker!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this movie! Highly suggested! The acting was excellent. The cast was excellent. And, it was nice to sit down to a movie that wasn't about shoot-em-up and death. Sometimes we have to watch these types of movies in order for us to appreciate what life is all about. I appreciate the research done into the history of the times and the ordeal that the HUAC brought upon the times. If you don't know much about the trials, it is a great movie to wet your whistle on the subject. Jim Carry at what I believe to be his best dramatic role I have seen him in. I enjoyed all the characters and the cast picked to play them give you the sense that a town like that actually exists. Well worth a sit and watch! "},{"Title":"A real heart warmer!!","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Have you 2 hours of time to spend and want to watch a drama, the The Majestic is a great choice. Set in the early 1950s, when communists were hunted down, this drama portrays Peter Appleton, a screenwriter and his new life at a small Californian town. Tagged as a communist for escorting his girl to a meeting several years before, Appleton is involved in a freak accident. Appleton loses his memory and ends up in a small town where He is mistaken for Luke Trimble, a local hero who was lost in the great world war. When his memory returns, Peter is inspired by Luke's bravery and goes on to face the Congress. The screenplay and the performance of Jim carrey are the highlight of the movie. Those interested in watching dramas would love this movie. "},{"Title":"A real feel-good film!","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this film was pretty good. I hadn't ever heard of it before and when I looked at where Jim Carrey done it in his career, I was a bit surprised I hadn't heard of it.It's a real feel-good movie and it's pretty much well-enjoyable if you just want an easy-osy film to watch. Jim Carrey's great in it... I like Liar, Liar and all that face-wrenching stuff, but this was a more realistic character he plays. It really makes you think about how it would be to lose your memory... he's thinking It's not that I don't believe what you're saying to me... I just can't remember... I was also really surprised by the supporting cast... I was recognising people left, right and centre and I also thought that 99% of the acting was really realistic with regard to reactions and facial expressions... none of it was over the top.A good film... 6/10 Dave "},{"Title":"Very majestic.","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not a fan of Jim Carrey.  I just find his movies very iritating.  Well that is up until now.  After watching and enjoying The Majestic I have to say if Carrey made more movies like this well then I just may become a big fan of his.Not sure this movie was really about Carrey's character being black banned, but more about a man finding the true meaning to life. "},{"Title":"Back to Frank Capra's naiveté..","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Anyone who saw Frank Capra's movies and particularly Mr Smith goes to Washington when James Stewart single -handedly fights the powers that be in the courtroom will see the connection.The majestic is old cinema ,it's a fable that should not be taken seriously.It pays a tribute not only to Frank Capra but also to Tornatore's Cinema paradisio (1988) and to Homer in Wyler's best years of our lives(1945),and also to great movies of the past such as Vidor's the big parade(1925) (When Carey watches Renée Adorée saying farewell to her true love,it makes a parallel between her affair and Adèle and the true Trumble) or Wise's the day the earth stood still .It even shows -perhaps ironically in that context- a poster of Kazan's a streetcar named desire!Anyone who wants to take it literally will totally miss the point;it did not prevent it's a wonderful life and Mr Smith goes to Washington to go straight to the heart;so does the majestic  it has a good screenplay which is never boring during 140 min and which features very good ideasThe hero remembering the lines of Dieterle 's life of Emile Zola whereas he suffers from amnesia ,the piano boogie which shocks the old music teacher,the way Landau reveals the young man the truth in the little graveyard,and how -always the magic of cinema he recovers his memory...The first part is Martin Landau's triumphhe will move you to tears ;Tornatore's influence again,he really seems to come from cinema paradisio .But Jim Carrey in a sober part can succeed in his James Stewartesque act as well. Some will tell you it's passé,corny ,old hat they are completely right.This movie can only appeal to these who have often a look at the past of the seventh artI'm one of them and I do like the majestic. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of all the slapstick comedies that Jim Carry has done, the best film he has done in my opinion is a drama about family, courage, and honor. The Majestic was over looked in the theater, and that is a real shame because not too many movies deal with the kind of courage that it deals with broadly in this film. Jim Carrey really Shows great dramatic chops, Martin Landau is great as always, and should have gotten an Oscar nomination for his role, and Laurie Holden gives a great performance and holds her own with the boys.See it.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly watchable","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Most of you reading this have already seen the film and so going through the plot would be futile. I have read other user comments and was surprised by the lack of accolades. The wife and I settled down to watch this film on satellite not really having heard of, or seen this movie advertised. At the end of the movie, we both agreed that it was a very entertaining film. I can appreciate the sensitivity of the subject matter, especially to Americans. However, I find it difficult to fathom how people can be cynical about a medium that is only, after all, 'Entertainment'. I have seen so many films that have been crucified by the, so called, professional critics and thoroughly enjoyed the films. So, my message to those of you that haven't seen the film Just watch it and enjoy!And... as a postscript - I agree with the other users that Jim Carrey's 'straight' acting is very competent and it is only a matter of time (and the right script) before he bags an Oscar. "},{"Title":"Gag","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I forced myself to finish this movie so that I could give an accurate review of it.  It was not an easy task.  Of course the most bothersome aspect was the truckload of propaganda that was labeled entertainment here (warning  If you didn't see the propaganda in An American President, you won't see it here either). Liberal bias in the movie industry? what?  Let's see them quote the Constitution like that when they're making a movie about a kid who wants to pray in school. *ahem*.Cinematically, this was also an utter failure.  It was more clichéd than any Capra film you ever saw, and those at least had good acting and pleasant stories to make them still quite worth watching.  I was never caught up in the story at all, and the only times I laughed were supposed to be serious moments.All in all this is a waste of celluloid, effort, and time.   "}{"Title":"Sometimes the message has to be repeated...","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... before it hits home.It may seem a little corny on the surface, albeit very well done, but when you put it in the context of a country once again on the verge of McCarthyism it becomes more than pertinent.It is clear, unfettered and to the point. It is presented in a sort of modern Capra-esque, Americana style that becomes a poignant counterpoint of patriotism to anti-communism.In times where it is deemed unpatriotic to voice dissent with the wrong doings of gov't, it is heartening to see that we are not alone. A wonderfully timely message paired with an equally wonderful performance by Jim Carrey. "},{"Title":"Best Jim Carrey I've seen","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never appreciated Jim's ability until this movie. He should be cast in more dramatic leads and get away from the Ace Ventura crap.It is a bit hokey. But it tells a story in a compelling way.I suspect it didn't get more exposure because it's message was a bit anti-conservative,and with conservatives controlling the U.S. media these days, the idea of stifling free speech other than the conservative message didn't sit well. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  gets panned an awful lot,but y know I think jim does a nice job.The story is nice and bob balaban does a good job.The story is realistc,and I liked the sets they used. It reminded me of the truman show,because of the character he plays.my final word go rent this! "},{"Title":"A really unappreciated gem.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like It's A Wonderful Life, The Majestic did not do well in the box office, but I wouldn't be surprised if it became a regular classic over the years just like Capra's.To call it Capra-Corn to me is a real complement seeing how such films always comes with a lot of heart and address real, honest-to-goodness values. No, we don't have to go racing off to some small faraway town to find it, because it can be found anywhere where you can find a good heart.However, it's still a sweet story.RE Jim Carrey. When I originally saw the film when it came out I was not so impressed. I couldn't buy Jim Carrey in the role and the issues about what is a contract, etc. seemed a bit obscure (perhaps a bit too cerebral for most movie-goers). Perhaps most movie-goers are a bit too cynical about life at this point to really latch onto a sentimental piece like this.However, time and experience has a way of convincing us of talent and I believe that seeing it again after a year or two has lent more leeway to the performance, making it more acceptable.RE Laurie Holden. Is she wonderful or what? I was really stunned by her beauty and grace. She plays the sweet, vulnerable home town girl so well. I really look forward to seeing more of her on the big screen. It is so easy to fall for characters with such principles and heart, and she pulls it off so well. A real talent. One word Wow! DRE Martin Landau. Is he great or what? What a sweet, sweet performance. So genuine. I'm glad he's still acting. I remember first watching him in Space 1999, and always hoped they'd make a remake of the show, however, I'm just happy to see him performing on the screen. What a great, great actor. So much heart.RE Raiders of the Lost Ark Idol. I laughed when I saw this. I guess Darabont and Spielberg must have had a good chuckle when they used it.RE Bruce Campbell. Is this guy under-utilized or what? I think it was a wonderful choice to have Campbell, king of modern B-movies such as Army of Darkness in an old fashioned B-movie like the one Tom Appleton has written.RE Amanda Detmer. Is she adorable or what? And why aren't we seeing more of her on screen as well? She should have more roles that show her spunk.RE The SHAWSHANK GANG Seeing Jeffrey DeMunn and James Whitmore in the film was great. I love seeing these guys performing. It seemed like a Shawshank reunion and it's always nice to see great actors work.I was also glad to see David Ogden Stiers and Ron Rifkin, both of whom can do no wrong in my book.In closing, I'm glad that HBO has been running The Majestic over and over again. In a lot of ways post-9/11 this is the kind of movie that we always need when things get bad. It's a story about having faith in oneself and one's community. And those kind of stories never go out of style.  "},{"Title":"Better the second time around.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched The Majestic on cable, first since I saw it in the theatres.  I think this remains a fine film.  It may be a corny feel-good movie but I still like a well done story.Jim Carrey plays Pete, a rising screenwriter who is caught up in the Hollywood Red Scare of the early 1950's.  On the eve of his ordeal he suffers amnesia after a car crash and finds himself in a small California town mistaken for a local hero, Luke, lost during World War II.  The townsfolk want desperately to have their lost son Luke restored to them and Pete begins to believe it himself.  He resumes the romance of Luke and his fiancée Adele (Laurie Holden).  His father (very well played by Martin Landau) is brought out of his depression and wants to reopen The Majestic, the long closed town movie theatre.  Eventually Pete recovers his memories and the troubles of his true life return.I admit to a soft spot for films about small town life.  This town has all the cute clichés.  Everyone is on a first name basis. Adele and Luke's courtship seems to be everyone's favorite sport.  However, this film also shows the meaning of loss, redemption and personal values.    "},{"Title":"Finally!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the first movie Jim Carey was in that I enjoyed.  Might have something to do with my age...  Heart-warming and feels like a movie of a long gone genre.  Predictable?  Maybe, but some times there is something to be said for predictability and it can be much less of a let down that unfulfilled expectations.  Highly recommend this to those who are looking for good, wholesome entertainment. "},{"Title":"one of my top 10","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After Watching The Truman Show and now The Majestic its clear to me Jim Carrey is by far a better actor in dramas. This film surprised me as I watched and its one of the best films I watched in a while. The Entire cast was outstanding in their roles as Peter loses his memory and lands up in a small town, and accepted him as a long lost war hero. Some people deeply knew that he was not Luke, but accepted it because the city needed a left, as did the movie house. The most touching part is when peter realized who he was, the man who took him in was on his death bed said I'm happy your here... and peter about to blow the news said I'm Not....(then thinks) and said ready for you to go, Dad he allowed the man to  go happy thinking he son was alive. and for those not seeing the film, the final scene was the best making you feel good. for a long film over 2 and half hours. the film goes quick and its one worth watch.   "},{"Title":"Just another great movie from Jim.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The fact I never heard of this movie got me a bit sceptical at first. I'm a fan of everything Jim Carrey touches, so not much objectivity here. Well, I did rend it anyway with no expectations.... to my surprise I watched a good movie. No funny faces but the seriousness of the Truman show. If you like carrey behind his mask and can appreciate a good movie I surely can recommend it. If you hope for a stupid 'mask' like movie, skip this one. For me it was a well spend two hours of watching this. "},{"Title":"Heart-Warming ... Hits Lots of Heart-Strings & Inspires","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lots of movies -- such as Easy Rider and Pleasantville -- show why the America of the 1950s and 60s should not have felt quite so good about its nice and patriotic people and small towns.  Easy Rider shows a small town comfortable with itself shooting young men off of their motorcycles because of the length of their hair.  Pleasantville shows a small town that considered itself nice at first making artistic, sexual, and other legitimate self-expression unsafe.The Majestic reminds us of the other side of the argument.  Small towns and neighborhoods in America were (and often are) friendly.  Their people were (and are) willing to fight against hostile foreign forces and over-reaching public officials, in support of basic American ideas of freedom.  Using the music and dance of the times, the movies of the age, images of typical people helping other typical people in the town, a tale of heroism in battle, a tale of heroism under pressure in the public spotlight, and, of course, a dash of romantic love -- a classy Jim Carrey and The Majestic touch the heart, draw more than a few warm tears, and remind us we all can, and sometimes must, play a hero's role in making a town and a nation, all our towns and nations, what we want them to be. "},{"Title":"No wonder this was a box office bomb","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is nothing special about this overly long film. Jim Carey is pretty good in it as well as Martin Landau, but that is all this movie has going for it. The movie is too long, and the plot just doesn't hold your attention. It just wasn't entertaining enough, so it doesn't surprise me not many people saw it in the theater. Also, it is very unbelieveable that a man just shows up in a town and just happens to look like the identical twin of a dead war hero and has lost his memory all at the same time. Then, the director decides to throw in at the end a statement about the constitution and Bill of Rights. I thought the political nature of the plot had to do with hunting down suspected Communists in Hollywood. The plot tries to do to much, and in the end is too convoluted to make a lot of sense.FINAL VERDICT I don't recommend this one, mainly because it just wasn't entertaining. "}{"Title":"A gem of a movie","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't understand why this film has received some unkind criticism.  It is a gem of a movie, even if the ending is a little contrived.  There is a wonderfully dramatic performance from Jim Carrey, who has excellent support especially from Laurie Holden, James Whitmore, Martin Landau and David Ogden Stiers (a far cry from his boorish character in M*A*S*H).  The film contains a fine balance of drama, romance and pathos, and is another superb effort from director Frank Darabont (The Green Mile, Shawshank Redemption).  Well worth seeing, and then seeing again.  "},{"Title":"Much More Enjoyable Than Most Reviews Indicated!","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I rented this movie this week and enjoyed it very much.Yes, the story does require one to leave part of their normal logic behind them.We enjoyed the story line, the great music, the entire cast, the romantic interests, the photography, the locations and the moral tone of the movie. It did have a point.Too many people are too cynical these days to enjoy this type of movie. So sad for them.If you have not seen it yet, get it and let your imagination and mind take it in.I might even look to find a copy to buy! "},{"Title":"Truly a gem that theater-goers missed.","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie opened in theaters on December 21st, 2001. It was amidst everything from the releases like HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE and ALI. And that's what explains this film's dismal box office totals. The Jim Carrey movie seemed to be underrated for the most part and that it wasn't able to grab the attention like the films I mentioned. Truly, this was a gem that theater-goers definitely missed big time. In this movie, not only it pictures that old Hollywood feeling, there was something Jim Carrey fans (a majority of them) missed out on. For those that synonymously put him his usual crazy world, this was something for them to see BIG in a different way -- which means, he can certainly do good drama -- like his past credits in THE TRUMAN SHOW and MAN ON THE MOON! Carrey is getting good at it as he dons the 'drama' part once again in this movie. Playing Peter Appleton, he leads us all to a great journey --- of what is happening before him when Hollywood is accused of spreading Communism (a part of the times during that era) thus being watched over by the FBI -- and later entering a different world, of where a part of America puts forth it's values through a small town's pride in their young who sacrificed themselves for the love of the country. After being in a car accident and unable to remember himself, Appleton is taken by a stranger into this town called Lawson and that's where the magic begins from here. He's assumed by many to be one of their heroes named Luke Trimble. The likeness of Appleton and Trimble resemble each other strongly. Appleton becomes embraced by many, including Trimble's father (Martin Landau), who believed his son came back 9 1/2 years later. He later meets Trimble's beloved gal Adele whom Appleton soon will fall in love with, and many more of the town's finest people. I can't say more about the rest. You'll just have to see it. This film will certainly win your heart and I encourage many to see it once it's on rent or for sale at video stores everywhere. My girlfriend and I have. And we really loved it. This movie can breathe in new life through it's release on video and capture more hearts (for those that missed it in theaters). It'll become a cult classic!  Totally majestic all the way!  "},{"Title":"Trite, Predictable, Pretty... Carrey Carries It","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This COULD be a great movie, but it struggles so hard to be polite and flatly unemotional that it never quite grabs you. The most emotionally true scene is when the disabled vet plants a right cross on Carrey's jaw. But even this character was treated as a window mannequin and never developed. For a film this long, with a lot of potential, it came off as too predictable and was largely unsatisfying.  -- TR "},{"Title":"A Pile Of Junk..","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was simply a film that tried so hard to be more then it was. After I spent an hour and a half trying to get into what I was hoping to be an amazing film, I could only tell myself that I felt sorry for Jim Carrey. I felt sorry for a man who has tried for years to be less of a comedian and more of a notable actor. You could tell that he was trying to move you with this picture. He had proved in past performances like The Truman Show and Man On The Moon that he can be more then a goof ball, like we saw in Ace Ventura and The Mask. The problem is, the film itself did nothing but make his character look as lame as possible. I was shocked! I expected more from the director of The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile, to amazing pieces of work. Then again, those two film were based on stories by one of the greatest authors of our time, Stephen King. This movie did not have that.. it had nothing close to it. What this movie had was a weak story that dragged on. The worst scene of all for me? When Jim Carry's character is shown the movie theatre that according to his now-father.. he used to work out. Jim says to his dad, Im sorry but I don't remember any of this. So what does Jim's father do to help jar his memory? Well, what else then to go to a grave yard and show him the graves of all his old friends who died in the war! Yep, nothing helps brings back those old memories of working in a movie theatre like seeing a grave yard. I can only sit back and say What was that for. This movie had nowhere to go but into the trash can.. after we sent $15 on a DVD. "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Hybrid","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the early &#145;50s, a trip from Los Angeles to Bakersfield would take about eight hours; then they built the Interstate, and now you can make the same trip in two hours.  The experience of the journey is basically the same, as you're covering the same ground, only quicker.  The main difference is that once you reach your destination now, you can actually appreciate it more because you're not so worn out from the trip itself.  Interestingly enough, `The Majestic,' directed by Frank Darabont, is set in the early &#145;50s, and uses the pre-Interstate route to take you to the final destination.  The thing is, had Darabont opted for the two hour route (which was available), he would have taken his audience to the same place and it would have been entirely more effective.  Especially since, once you finally arrive, you realize that you've been there before, anyway.  Even so, like visiting an historic landmark, it's worth a look.  But be prepared; the journey is long, and it may wear you down a bit.Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey) is a `B' movie Hollywood screenwriter, but he's working on a project now that just may take him to the `A' list.  This is his big chance, and he's going to make the most of it; this is the one that's going to take him to the top.  Right in the middle of it, however, there's a glitch-- and it's a big one  The McCarthy hearings are in full swing, Peter's name has been given to the committee, and he's been called to testify.  And his movie-- along with his future-- has been put on hold.Shocked and dismayed at having the rug pulled out from under him, Peter gets in his car that night and hits the highway, driving just to drive, to get away, letting the road take him where it may until the sun comes up or he runs out of gas, whichever comes first.  Neither of which happens, though, as fate intervenes; he has an accident, and when he comes to he's lying on a beach somewhere, with no idea who he is or why he's there.  But there's still some luck left in the hand he's holding, and his name is Stan Keller (James Whitmore), who is out for his morning stroll when he finds Peter, befriends him and takes him into town.  And it's there that Peter's life really begins to change, when a man named Harry Trimble (Martin Landau) spots him and mistakes him for his son, Luke-- gone some nine years and thought lost at war.  For Harry-- and for the whole town-- it's like a miracle; as if they've all been given a second chance.  Because Luke-- thought gone forever-- has come back.Darabont has crafted and delivered a film that initially (for the first forty-five minutes or so) is alive in a Bradburyesque way that is filled with hope and the stuff that dreams are made of.  It's the story of a man wronged who not only gets a second chance, but a chance at something seemingly better than what he had before.  Something cleaner, somehow; pure.  But once Darabont has established the magic, he enters a holding pattern.  Peter may not know who he is, but we do, and we know it's only a matter of time before his true identity is revealed.  In the meantime, the magic slowly begins to dissipate in the realization that Peter's story is really nothing more than a smoke-and-mirrors act, behind which lies the true purpose of Darabont's film.  What we begin to understand is that the Peter Appleton character is nothing more than a vehicle through which a statement can be made about McCarthyism and the injustice it wrought upon the lives of a number of innocent people.  `The Majestic' then, is a cinematic hybrid; the offspring of a union between `Something Wicked This Way Comes' and `Guilty by Suspicion.'  An interesting concept, to be sure, and fairly well executed by Darabont.  But you leave home for a specific destination, only to find you're elsewhere once you arrive.  And Darabont takes you there via the scenic route; better had he taken the alternate route, as there is nothing along his route that makes the beginning or the end any more significant, entertaining or noteworthy in any way.  The saving grace of the project is Jim Carry, who leaves his rubber face behind this time and gives a performance that is truly `majestic.'  The most significant aspect of this film, in fact, is that it demonstrates what a gifted, talented actor Carrey is.  His portrayal of Peter Appleton is quite natural and unaffected, he exhibits an unusual (for him) amount of restraint while using an introspective approach to the character, and there is a decided lack of pretentiousness in his presentation that makes him entirely real and convincing.  It's a performance that should prove to his detractors, once and for all, that there is more to Jim Carrey than `Ace Ventura' or `Lloyd Christmas.' As the man who gets the ball rolling by mistaking Peter for his own son, Martin Landau gives an affecting performance, although he could've taken a cue from Carrey in the restraint department, as he tends a bit too much toward melodrama at times.  Still, it's an engaging portrayal and does, indeed, effect the desired results.The supporting cast includes Laurie Holden (Adele), Allen Garfield (Leo), Amanda Detmer (Sandra), Bob Balaban (Elvin Clyde), Brent Briscoe (Sheriff Coleman), Jeffrey DeMunn (Ernie), Hal Holbrook (Congressman Doyle), Ron Rifkin (Kevin), David Ogden Stiers (Doc Stanton) and Karl Bury (Bob).  `The Majestic' then, is something of a mixed bag; it's an engaging film, but Darabont allows the emotional involvement to waver somewhat during the journey, before successfully reestablishing it at the end.  And the outer shell masks the fact that there's also a nut inside, along with the milk chocolate.  In the final analysis, however, it's still the magic that is the movies.  7/10.              "},{"Title":"Wonderful, wonderful movie","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard the negative reviews and general apathy for this movie, so when I rented it I was ready for 2 1/2 hours of nothing.  I couldn't have been more pleasantly surprised.  What a great movie.  The story was excellent, the acting was good (not earth shattering great, but good), the direction of the movie was awesome - the movie moved along at just the right pace.  The story telling, character developement - it was all just great.  I loved this movie - I am just sorry I rented it instead of buying it.  I can see in a year or two adding it to my collection.  If you were like me and weren't all that excited to see this based on reviews you had read - rent it/buy it - it is a very good movie. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey was robbed of an Oscar nomination","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***********SPOILERS AHEAD**********If Russell Crowe wasn't nominated in the Best Actor category, I'd say that Jim Carrey deserved to win the Oscar.  But if he was, he definitely deserved it over Denzel.  Carrey is nothing short of spectacular, giving one of the best screen performances I've seen in a while.  Now, I liked him in The Truman Show.  He definitely proved that he had great potential as a dramatic actor and gave a fine dramatic performance, but not Oscar-worthy.  And the film wasn't Oscar-worthy either, though it was good.  Well, I wouldn't regard The Majestic as Oscar-worthy, but I guess Carrey has a lot more to work with in the rich, multi-layered character of Peter Appleton.  Before I go on with the aesthetics of this film, I will let out what I really think of Jim Carrey.  He is a talented man, he has lots of it.  But his relentless jarring, in comic roles, does get quite tiring at times.  When I was in grade school, I thought the Ace Ventura movies were hilarious.  Now I can't stand a minute of either one of those flicks because of Carrey's annoying schtick.  So I was initially glad, while watching The Majestic, that Carrey was able to discipline himself and provoke himself from breaking into one of his manic episodes.  Now Robin Williams is known as a comic actor, but he is so great in his dramatic roles that I can honestly say he's just as talented at drama as he is at comedy.  And before watching Carrey's performance in this movie, Williams was the only comic actor who I felt had that kind of talent.  Just by this one performance, I can regard Carrey as a spectacular dramatic actor and I anxiously hope to see him in many more serious roles, despite how poor this one fared at the box office.  Screw what the general public says--put Jim Carrey in more serious roles!  We've seen enough of his a*s-talking. The most powerful scenes in this movie actually contain no dialogue.  Carrey's expressions alone communicate such deep emotional pain and sorrow.  He brought tears to my eyes in a great many scenes with his quietly powerful performance.  Frank Darabont must've had a hell of a hunch when he decided to cast Carrey in the lead role.  Needless to say, Carrey wouldn't be the conventional choice.  This looks like a role that would require a Tom Hanks.  Who would guess Jim Carrey?  As I said, why didn't he receive an Oscar nomination?  The story has its flaws, but overall it's quite interesting.  It has many dimensions.  Darabont and the writers blended the magic of early cinema, the Communist scare in the 50's, wartime heroism, a case of mistaken idenitity, romance and the triumph of the human spirit all into one film.  This is no fluff flick.  But it does have its dramatic conventions.  For example, the death of Luke's father, played wonderfully by Martin Landau.  Usually when you see a frail, elderly old man in a film like this, he's bound to die and die in a opera-like fashion with him muterring his last words to the one he loves.  It was sad to see his character die, but that was one moment that didn't choke me up because I expected it to happen.  Now I loved Carrey's speech at the end, pertaining to America's increased paranoia about Communism, and that was another moment that brought a tear to my eye, but let's face it--at a time like that, would they really allow him to return to Hollywood and write films, despite how powerful his words were?  Of course not.  But we wouldn't end such an uplifting drama with our beloved protagonist in prison.  And after Appleton revealed to the town that he was a fraud, would they really forgive him afterwards and hold another Welcome Back party for him?  And finally, there's the romance.  BTW, Laurie Holden--who I don't recall seeing before--also gives a superb performance.  Well, she naturally despises him after finding out that he's not really Luke.  Then he meets her in the semetary and she immediately forgives him and even offers him inspiration in the court case.  OK, it's established.  The Majestic is not a perfect motion picture.  Towards the end, it does falter into melodrama.  And it's never truly established why the townspeople mistook Peter Appleton for Luke.  Did the two of them just happen to look exactly alike?  I know they weren't long lost identical twins. Nevertheless, The Majestic is a powerful film with a powerful performance by Carrey, and I do suggest you have a box of tissues handy.  Darabont directed The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile, so he knows how to tug at the audience's heartstrings and generate layers of emotional tension.  Why did this movie bomb at the box office?  Simple  The general public would rather watch Jim Carrey talk with his rear end.  Well, I'm sorry to disappoint you, but there's none of his trademark butt-talking this time around.  Instead, Carrey chooses to let down his audience's expectations by delivering a great performance that will send you on an emotional journey.  Oh, boo-hoo.  We don't wanna see that, do we?  God forbid we find out Carrey has other talents.  My score  8 (out of 10)        "},{"Title":"A great drama/Carrey is king","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a great movie. I just brought it on DVD today and just finished it. I can't believe how good Carrey was on a SERIOUS role. I have gotten so used to seeing him funny, that this was one of the best Carrey movies. I recommend this to anyone who has not seen it, and if you have, you know what I'm talking about when I say10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Man brings a town back to life, town brings the man back to life.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't go to movies at the theater anymore. I always see films on DVD at home, so I have lots of opportunity to read reviews first. I don't understand why the reviews for The Majestic are so mixed, because it is a really fine film. Jim Carrey is superb in the lead role, and new-to-film Laurie Holden is very well cast as his love interest. (In many angles she looks amazingly like a young Kathleen Turner.) At almost 2.5 hours, it is slow only in a few places and doesn't seem overly long. It is ambitious in dealing with three main topics, but pulls it off well, if not perfectly.some SPOILERS follow -- Set in the early 1950s USA, Pete is a B-movie script writer who once, in college, attended a meeting of an organization that was believed affiliated with Communists. Why? Because he was horny, trying to win the affections of a girl he followed there. Still, the House Committee on Unamerican Activities learned of this years later, and he was destined for the Holloywood blacklist. Distraught, he went for a long ride up into northern California (much was shot in Mendocino), got into an accident (I would have run over the possum), hit his head, was discovered the next day on a river bank by an old man who walked him into town.Pete had no memory, was mistaken by townsfolk, even the dad, for Luke who had been missing from the war and presumed dead. Had he really shown up after 9 1/2 years? Everyone wanted to believe so, even his old girl who was about to get her law license. But those close to Luke began to realize this person was probably not him. Still, after losing so many young men to the war, this Luke was the inspiration for the town to re-awaken itself and quit mourning over their losses. This was manifest in part by the refurbishing and re-opening of the movie house, The Majestic, which Luke and his dad had run before the war. It was during the showing of one movie, Pete had written, that he began to remember who he really was.Daniel VonBargen in a small but good role was the agent who got onto Pete's track and finally found him in the small town, brought him back to L.A. for a special session of the HCUA, where his stand on Communism was to be questioned. In the process he realized what a milquetoast he was, always doing what was easiest to save his skin, but realizing how much the small town gave honor to hero Luke. Which got him to change his attitude, gave up script writing, returned to Luke's hometown, married Luke's old girlfriend, continued to run the Majestic, raised a family.The film is ambitious in tackling three issues -- the nation's obsession with Communism at that time, Pete's finding himself, and the town re-awakening after its terrible losses of young men to the war. It handles all three acceptably, and the overall result is a fine film. Especially enjoyable is the middle hour and a half where Pete is meeting all these people he is supposed to remember, and the effort to re-open the Majestic. Fun scene, night dance, old piano teacher tries to get Luke to play classical, but Pete starts to play great jazz instead. The DVD's extras are not particularly enticing, but the DVD itself, in Dolby 5.1 digital sound, is very impressive. It is done so well it rarely calls attention to itself. But, in scenes that benefit from it, the surround sound puts you right in the middle of a crowd or the street, with sounds from all around.Edit June 2011, just watched it again, holds up very well for repeat viewings. "}{"Title":"A shame no one saw this movie","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just rented this movie and I must say that it's a shame no one went to see it.  The story and acting is incredible.  The flow of the film envelops you into a two 1/2 hour journey where you have no idea about time or space. Jim Carrey's choice of roles here rivals Tom Hanks, and his acting ability does the same.  I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"It is not as bad as you think...","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie today...and I gotta tell ya, it is not as bad as you think. Maybe you don't need to watch it a second time, but it is must for the first time. The pace in the beginning was alittle slow, I am not sure if that is the reason, but most people in the cinema were old grandies. But don't let this fool you. Once the plot thickens, you will be glad that you didn't walk out of the movie. I thought the storyline was good, it allows room to question, what may happen next? and that is what I found myself asking, will he stay or will he go. The acting was great, but I guess it was no surpirse from Jim Carey. After his appearance in the Truman Show, I doubt anyone would question his ability to act. He didn't over-act, which is a good thing since he is so used to being a comedian.This movie is worth seeing, I give it 7.1/10 "},{"Title":"It may not be majestic, but it certainly deserved better","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  They say the real test of a man is his ability to deal with failure. Although by no means is this a failure in creative terms for Frank Darabont, it is a colossal one in terms of the box office. The Majestic sank without trace and the fact I had to travel almost 100 miles to enjoy it over here indicates that UK audiences will reciprocate their US counterparts. Now the critics knives are out, Darabont cannot hack non-Stephen King adaptations, mismanages when outside a prison set. Absolute cack. This particlar feature may lack the beauty of a Shawshank or the spiritual drive of a Green Mile but it is certainly no flop. The flashback it provides to a an age long forgotten is one that should be applauded, however politically uncorrect it appears in its convictions. Darabont here is doing what Daranbont loves best, and for the most part it works. For one, the whole tale is a delight with the relationships between Carrey, Landau and Black a particular joy. The reflections on a golden age of cinema is also one to be heralded, if not slightly overdone come the 150 minute mark. The settings and direction is faultless and never at any moment does the film outstay its welcome. Indeed, there are touches of the Coens, Hitchcock and Capra here all at play. However, where The Majestic shoots itself in the foot is in an overly simplistic script that is just too sugar coated and in many ways an eagerness on Darabont's part to not become perceived as above his station. Darabont as we speak is in his writing bureau at home penning the remake of Farenheit 451 and I just wish he had spent the time to reword much of Sloanes' trite vocabulary. Some scenes are startingly brilliant, like the moment when Appleton takes a stand in the graveyard and pronounces that this is where devotion to a cause gets you. However, these are too few and far between and the penning of Darabont is clearly lacking. The constitution is lauded in a fashion that drips like syrup and the whole picture takes the role of a political fable come the last half hour. Another worry is Darabont's total moulding of the film around its script. Indeed, this is no bad thing as a strong script makes a film. However, the whole last act seems so staged it becomes passe. There is no way the whole of the council would have stopped short to allow Appleton his moment to personally uphold the constitiution. This is becoming a trend it seems as we only have to hark back three years to The Green Mile to see Edgecombe and Coffey in a deep moment of heartfelt pity whilst a baying crowd allow them the time to weep internally for one another. What must be remembered is that a strong script does not have to be given a soap box, it whittles its own. Despite its shortcomings, The Majestic is a throwback to the darling days of cinema, and this is hardly an area of the market that is becoming saturated of late. However badly it tries to become an adage to the founder fathers of cinema and however innapropriate it is given that McCarthyism flourished in small town America, it still deserves our respect. It is a far more polished film than the majority of celluloid pap that flood our cinema screen each month. Those are the artificial films, not this. The fact that it will be overshone by a science fiction licence that has long outstayed its welcome and teen sexual angst at the box office is a shame but not unexpected. If Darabont does as expected, and becomes his own cinematic one man band once again for his next production, I think we will see him come roaring back. Something we should all encourage, for the story in Hollywood is in its twilight years, and it is the likes of Darabont that keeps that moon aglow.   "},{"Title":"A very under-rated movie","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsReleased in the heat of the Attack of the Clones hype,The Majestic is one film that,like a few others,is likely to go largely unnoticed.Which would make it into a smaller,unnoticed gem.But it's certainly not a small film.But this is surprisingly not a problem.This is one lengthy film (running just short of the three hour mark) that you won't feel your bum aching through,thanks to an absorbing ,well plotted story with interesting sub-plots ,and very good acting from Jim Carrey,Martin Landau,Laurie Holden and just about every one involved really.Another merit is the wonderful period setting,from the locations,the scenery,the music ,the dress and yes,indeed,even the movies ,with The Majestic showing films such as A Streetcar Named Desire,Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Day the Earth Stood Still.Quite why this film has not been given all the praise it deserves by just about every other critic is astounding.Try to see it......if the crowds will let you in.**** "},{"Title":"I wanted so much to like The Majestic....","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wanted so much to like The Majestic....but it was a disappointment!When I saw the previews, I thought here at last is a vehicle for Jim Carey that would signal his start as an actor of depth and emotion.  While he did give it a good college try the material and the length of the film were working against him. In the beginning and end of The Majestic, the viewer focuses on Jim Carey's face as studio hacks come up with stupid and hokey ideas to improve his script. I'm afraid this explains some of the serious flaws of The Majestic.  The film lacks originality, intensity and tightness of editing.  It is Too Long! It tries too hard to be Capra-esque and similar to too many other better films.  Some of the fine movies it shamelessly borrowed from include Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, It's a Wonderful Life, The Return of Martin Guerre, The Front, Cinema Paradiso, and who knows what others? Jim Carey lacks the intensity and emotion of Jimmy Stewart, though He tries hard.  He did a much more credible job in The Truman Show.  Laurie Holden has done a good turn for her career with her performance, though the director overdone her 40's look.  The tried and true character actors, Landau, Balaban, Stiers, et al. were believable and were responsible for the best moments in the film. The Majestic tried too hard.  It should have had more emotion, more creativity, and a lot more editing, and maybe, just maybe it could have been a really touching film experience, that Frank Capra himself might have enjoyed.  "},{"Title":"It was an effort...","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into the movie expecting some kind of Oscar-worthy film...Did not come out feeling this way...Though Jim Carrey is beginning to prove himself as a dramatic actor, the movie itself lagged in a really bad way.  The plot was interesting, but that's about it.  It was almost as long as The Lord of the Rings The Fellowship of the Ring, but nowhere near it's magnitude.  Was not awe inspiring at all.  I am a little disappointed at the director though...After having created such great films as The Green Mile and The Shawshank Redemption, you would expect something else that was as great. Maybe he should stick to movies set in penitentiaries... "},{"Title":"They had the right idea...","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  **spoilers** This movie had a great plot. Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey) is a writer, for movies. Sand Pirates of the Sahara, his new 'B' movie has just come out. Then suddenly he is accused of being a Communist, and after having a few drinks decides to go for a drive. While crossing a single lane bridge, an opossum runs out onto the bridge. Swerving to avoid it, the man's car runs off the side of the bridge, and eventually falls into the river below. After finally getting out of the car (his jacket was caught in the door, which he had to take off, which had his wallet in it) the rushing river slams him against one of the bridge's supports. Next we see him lying on a beach, which a large gash on his head. He is suffering from amnesia, and cannot remember who he is, etc. An old man finds him, and takes him into a local diner where everyone agrees that he looks strangely familiar. Harry Trimble (Martin Landau) sees him as he is leaving and recognizes him as Luke Trimble, his son. We learn that Luke never returned from the war, as well as many others. Then we come to some very slow parts of the movie, basically of everyone in town badgering Luke, trying to get him to remember. Then come Adele Stanton (Laurie Holden), Luke's old flame. She too tries to get him to remember things, and he still does not. Later, `Luke', Harry and the rest of the Majestic's staff, with the help of the townspeople, reopen the Majestic. Now come some more very slow parts of the movie. The next big event is when Sand Pirates of the Sahara is shown at the Majestic. Suddenly Luke remembers who he really is... Pete Appleton, not Luke Trimble. Just then, he's informed that the something is wrong because Harry missed the reel change. Rushing to him, they find him lying on the ground. It ends up he's had a massive heart attack, and is going to die. Peter almost tells him he's not Luke, but decides not to. He then tells Adele after Harry's funeral, and she says she knew all along. The police, etc. show up in town to get suspected Communist Peter, and he has to be on a train in the morning. Then the movie gets slow once again, and before leaving in the morning he goes to the cemetery to put back the award that Harry had given him, thinking he was Luke, from the war. He finds Adele there. They fight about what Luke would've done in this situation. Then he leaves for the train station. Once there, 'Doc' (David Ogden Stiers), Adele's father, gives Peter a gift from Adele. He opens it on the train and it's the constitution. He is tried in front of a committee and takes a stand, talking about the America Luke fought for. He leaves and returns to work, where he promptly says what he really thinks, and leaves. He returns and receives a welcome from the entire town. He marries Adele, has a son and runs the Majestic.     It doesn't get much cheesier than that. I think that the movie had a great potential, but was made too long. But perhaps if it weren't that long, it wouldn't have had the same impact because the character's relationships wouldn't have developed enough. I could tell the people around me didn't enjoy it; they were continually checking their watches and fidgeting. It grew very slow at times. Although I didn't mind sitting through it, I would not see it again for a long time. I thought the acting was excellent. At some points in the movie it had a really great feel, almost reminded me of Pleasantville. Overall, I give this movie a 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Some Good Moments, But Never Accomplishes Its Goal.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Uneven film from Frank Darabont that stalls and runs a bit too long to be a complete success. Hollywood screenwriter Jim Carrey is involved in a car wreck one day and develops amnesia. He is then taken to a small town by an elderly man (James Whitmore) where he is mistaken for a man who was seemingly lost in World War II. A true mystery becomes a nostalgic journey into the land of films as the titled movie theater is re-opened with Carrey's help. Martin Landau is really taken with Carrey, believing that Carrey is his son. Most of the rest of the town welcomes Carrey in with open arms, but some question Carrey's legitimacy. As time passes too many side-stories hurt The Majestic. The black-listing of those involved in Communist activities in Hollywood during the post-World War II era and a sometimes distracting love story get in the way of some really good ideas. Overall a good film but much like The Green Mile, The Majestic does not come close to the excellence of Darabont's The Shawshank Redemption. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"bad movie","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Regarding Frank Darabont's movies, I loved The Shawshank Redemption, I  liked The Green Mile, and I really disliked The Majestic. It was extremely formulaic. I predicted scene after scene and line after line. The movie posters harken to a Frank Capra movie like It's A Wonderful Life but it didn't deliver to me. It wasn't that touching and when it tried to be it just came off as shallow, unbelievable, and manipulative. I'm not someone who usually discerns good/bad acting performances but I also thought that Jim Carrey was very poor in the lead role. It didn't even seem that he believed in his part much less the audience. The movie's display of the McCarthy/HUAC hearings was also cheesy (especially since I had just seen Martin Ritt's The Front which is quite good). Carrey taking on the government seemed unbelievable, out of place in the movie, and all I can come with is cheesy as compared to Jimmy Stewart's rousing performance in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington as he takes on the evil forces in Washington. Throughout the movie I kept thinking, Man, this director made 'The Shawshank Redemption', what happened. "},{"Title":"naive, plotless fable","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very naive movie during which I almost fell asleep. Being a fan of the Shawshank Redemption, which I consider to be a fantastic movie, and of serious works with Jim Carrey, such as The Truman Show and Man on the moon, I put some high hopes on that one. Unfortunately it was slow and way too candid... it left me the impression the director didn't know where he was going it could have been the start of a cinema in a small city, it could have been a denunciation of the Mccarthyism, it could have been a question on the identity of the human being, but it tries to be all of it at the same time and reaches nothing.The passage from zero to hero is quite common in US films nowadays - but this was almost a caricature - it goes to the extreme - including a detailed description of patriotic (and extremely averted in matters of democracy) Smallville USA. Definitely not my idea of a good movie. Basically, go your way and avoid - it's something you have certainly seen before. Rent Man on the moon instead... "}{"Title":"Tripe - Pure and Simple!","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jim Carey is woefully miscast in what purports to be a drama. He doesn't have the gravitas to play drama. But why worry - because this drama has all the gritty realism of a Disney cartoon.Cue a cutesie-pie version of small town America in the 1950s - you know, the kind where everyone is your neighbor and all you need is a bottle of Coke in order to teach the world to sing in perfect harmony. Oh, puh-leeze!!Throw in a script that requires the main protagonist - an Amnesiac - to be asked Don't you remember??? so many times that you want to scream.Top it all off with a courtroom showdown that is so preposterous it beggar's belief.And you have The Majestic. Frank Capra must be turning in his grave! If you want to waste two hours of your life watch it by all means. "},{"Title":"The Majestic","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK this isn't exactly the most original idea ever and the whole thing feels a bit like an extended 'Twilight Zone' episode (one of the more sensible ones), but this truly is a beautiful film with the kind of performances that are guaranteed to make you smile. A simple tale set in the 50's, a young man is accused of being a Communist and his life is turned upside down. One night he gets slightly drunk and drives his car off a bridge accidentally and ends up almost drowning. He gets washed up on the shores of a small town where he is believed to be a WWII soldier killed years before.This is complete and utter American pie through n through and I mean that in the best way possible. Generally things like this can be quite sickening with all the Stars n Stripes patriotism and this does have that, truth be told this actually has more treacly gooey hanky moments than you can shake a stick at. There is also the element of the all American Communist witch hunts which is the whole plot beneath the surface. Its only kinda touched on really but its played out in a typically heroic way for the main character in the end. You think he will submit to the government, a government of so called democracy, but he fights for truth and justice and the American way. Yes the finale is a bit too vomit inducing for us non Americans. What works for me is the pure visual spectacle of the film with the typically quaint white building built US town set amongst the glorious Californian woodlands on the pacific coast. In short this film looks stunning, its made to look extremely whimsical of course but it works. The era makes this work even better as the sight of old classic US cars cruising around, small diners, the smart fashions, jazz/big band music etc...give the film a very homely taste that I think anyone (more so adults probably) can enjoy.The cast is another reason to like this film, how can you not enjoy seeing Martin Landau in a brilliantly moving role. I loved 'Ed Wood' and this yet another portrayal of angst and heartbreak but even stronger than before. Gerry Black also gives us a lovely performance for the old caretaker of the Majestic, his gravelly raspy voice draws you in whilst his cheeky grin is heartwarming. James Whitmore has a small role but he sure fits in well, performance is perfect as is his costume and character design, looks good with the pipe. To be honest all the main roles are played well by a host of solid actors, many I have seen before and merely know by face, reliable character actors.Then we have Mr Carrey, to be honest a brave move as before this he was known only for his comedies. This doesn't mean he was the right choice of course, in my opinion he can't quite handle the kind of serious emotion involved here (at least at this period in his career) and you can see it. A case of being type cast for over the top crazy ass characters or idiots, due to this you keep half expecting him to do something or say something daft. Carrey never really looks too comfortable in this film surrounded by proper quality character actors, he was yet to break away from his over acting lunacy.A charming nostalgic film that manages to homage the golden age of small town 50's America and the classic (and much missed) age of big regal looking cinemas, but is also a stirring tribute to the fallen of WWII. It is extremely clichéd and cheesy, love it or hate it I doubt there will be any middle ground here. It really does pull all the obligatory heart strings to get you choked up, every old trick in the mushy book, but damn it...it works!7/10 "},{"Title":"Don't know why everyone doesn't love it","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay now I see people giving this movie a 6 out of 10 and thats ridiculous. I'm not hear to tell you you're wrong but this movie is great. It captures life in a town rundown by the war and death if thats not enough to invoke at least the slightest pity from people please check your pulse. I know that you already know hes not Luke but who cares its about the hope and prosperity of a town being restored by the idea that their boys who died defending the country for. If thats not good enough the awesome speech displaying the rights of all Americans in words strewn with emotion by the great Mr. Carrey is. at least for me. I'm not always easy to impress but this movie is in my all time favorites for good. It makes me want this country be like it was in the 50s again. "},{"Title":"I liked this film","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Usually,I hate false and shallow movies.The Majestic is a false and shallow movie but I have to say I liked it and it kept me very fun.Director Frank Darabont put something to this movie that made it better.The movie has a good level of ingenuity and innocence and it gave points to it.Maybe,a lot of people will hate this movie.Usually,I hate this kind of movies but,on this case,I liked the movie and it kept me very fun.Jim Carrey has a great performance on this movie .Sadly,this actor is very underrated because he's considered as a clown.But on The Truman show,Man on the Moon and this movie,he showed he's a great serious actor too.He should have deserved and Academy Award nomination for his role on this movie but the Academy is so pathetic that always ignored him.I liked The Majestic because it kept me very fun. "},{"Title":"Melodrama delux!","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember happening upon this film one day while channel surfing.  I sat through it, and at length all I can say is that it was quite melodramatic.Though it is rich with emotion and feeling, its plot is is just a little too far-fetched for even me to swallow, and I find the premise of The Lord of the Rings acceptable!The film takes place during the Red Scare, which is a period in history where the US government and the general public were convinced everyone around them was a potential communist(gasp!  Oh no! Not a Communist! they have missiles! Boo!  Boo!) It revolves around a Hollywood writer portrayed by Jim Carey (who, oddly enough,isn't playing a role where he is required to throw his limbs about and carry on like a child, as is his typical trademark.)  He is ousted from his studio after they discover he was speaking with communists, though he was not aware they were communists to begin with!In a drunken stupor he accidently drives his vehicle off a bridge and is ultimately washed up on the shore of a small nearby community.  He experienced a head injury during his accident and is left with no knowledge of who he is.The town he is washed up on experienced a heavy loss of young men during World War II.  The father of one of these dead soldiers becomes convinced that this man who is washed up on shore is his son, as he looks identicle to him (wow!)What follows is an orgy of melodramatic mush, but now that you have the general premise I suppose you can already guess that for yourself.  My conclusion is that this film exhibits too much coincidental stupidity to be believable.  I mean, how can one town be THAT dense?  It was entertaining, that I will not deny.  I enjoyed it, at any rate, but there is just something about the plot I find extremely unsettling. "},{"Title":"If you buy the premise, you buy the bit- This one's worth buying!","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic starts out to be the It's a Wonderful Life of our time; it succeeds at doing so without being a parody of Capra. Majestic pays tribute to the feel-good classics and is destined to become one in its own right. Sensitive, comfortable, and natural performances make this film genuinely heartwarming and never campy. Martin Landau, David Ogden Stiers, and Jim Carrey give their finest moments on screen in this film as they make what could be potentially sappy dialog into poignant moments from the lives of these characters. I had no desire to see this movie when it came out in theatres; I am grateful now that I was able to catch The Majestic on cable and be drawn in by its charm and grace. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I am not a great fan of Jim Carrey, I can honestly say that this is his best movie to date!  Jim Carrey was very convincing in the role of Peter Appleton/Luke Trimble, a screenwriter who got caught up in McCarthy-ism and unwittingly, in the lives of families in a small town somewhere north of Hollywood, which lost several of its' favorite sons to the war.  Of course he had a wonderful cast with which to work.  Most of the supporting actors are old enough to have lived through the McCarthy-era witch trials and blacklists and thereby must remember all the hurt that they had caused. Perhaps this is what helped create the sense of realism that this movie helped capture.  This movie is definitely well worth watching more than once. "},{"Title":"Norman Rockwell brought to film","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic takes a romantic look back at our culture during the McCarthy era. The perspectives given are those of Hollywood CA., Lawson CA. (aka small town USA), and Washington, D.C. Each is stylized so that lines are made clear - even so called deals are made clear.This movie is incredibly well-acted and directed. All of the cast brings this romantic look to life. If there is one thing about this movie it is that it is a Norman Rockwell brought to film. 9/10- Zafoid "},{"Title":"patriotism, this film's timing after September 11 is uncanny.","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic is set back in the 1950's after World War II and during the famous House Un-American Activities Committee. Screaming with patriotism, this film's timing after September 11 is uncanny.Peter Appleton played by Jim Carrey is a young B movie screenwriter. In the middle of negations to screen write for the A list movies, Appleton is black listed for so called communist activities while in school. Distraught after losing his job and girlfriend, he drinks himself into a stopper. He takes a drive up the California coast during a rainstorm and has an accident which causes him to drive off a bridge, and hit his head on a rock. This causes a bout of amnesia. He washes up on the shore of a small town of Lawson where Stan Keller (James Whitmore) a pawn shop owner finds him and brings him back to town.The town of Lawson, California is in mourning after losing 62 of its fine young men in World War II. The town folk confuse Carrey for one of their missing in action war heroes Luke Tremble. His resemblance to Tremble is so realistic; Luke's father Harry Tremble (Martin Landau) believes whole heartily that is son has returned. Luke and Harry decide to rebuild the movie house known as The Majestic. Hoping to bring life back to a town that has been mourning for 9 ½ years.Frank Darabont is the director of The Majestic. He has been twice nominated for an academy award in the category for Best Adapted Screen Play for his work on The Shawshank Redemption (1994) and The Green Mile (1999). The Majestic is similar to his other films, where Darabont tries to portray what is important in life. In this time post 9/11, Darabont brings back the American patriotic theme and The Constitution the basis for this country's foundations.The use of background lighting helps place this film in its timeframe. The same kind of lighting used in Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. It helps add a sense of mystery to both films.The Majestic, is an entertaining, but sappy film. It brings back the American values, and strives on the World War II bonding of the American people to defeat its enemy's. In today's high society we all have lost site of the principals and foundations that this country was built on. We've gotten comfortable with our way of life, without having to defend our country. After 9/11, this films timing may for a little while renew those values and principals of country and patriotism we all have put aside for our own selfish wants. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had intended to see this movie when it came out... Never got to until this evening. It turned out to be terribly under-rated. The truly unbelievable thing about it is that Carrey can act! The story was good and the cast was excellent. Most notable were Gerry Black, James Whitmore, Martin Landou and Laurie Holden. Not many actresses can carry-off the styles of the 50's but she did it! Obviously I'd recommend it. "}{"Title":"Screaming with patriotism, this film's timing after September 11 is uncanny.","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic is set back in the 1950's after World War II and during the famous House Un-American Activities Committee.  Screaming with patriotism, this film's timing after September 11 is uncanny.Peter Appleton played by Jim Carrey is a young B movie screenwriter.  In the middle of negations to screen write for the A list movies, Appleton is black listed for so called communist activities while in school.  Distraught after losing his job and girlfriend, he drinks himself into a stopper.  He takes a drive up the California coast during a rainstorm and has an accident which causes him to drive off a bridge, and hit his head on a rock.  This causes a bout of amnesia.  He washes up on the shore of a small town of Lawson where Stan Keller (James Whitmore) a pawn shop owner finds him and brings him back to town.The town of Lawson, California is in mourning after losing 62 of its fine young men in World War II.  The town folk confuse Carrey for one of their missing in action war heroes Luke Tremble.  His resemblance to Tremble is so realistic; Luke's father Harry Tremble (Martin Landau) believes whole heartily that is son has returned. Luke and Harry decide to rebuild the movie house known as The Majestic.  Hoping to bring life back to a town that has been mourning for 9 ½ years.Frank Darabont is the director of The Majestic.  He has been twice nominated for an academy award in the category for Best Adapted Screen Play for his work on The Shawshank Redemption (1994) and The Green Mile (1999).  The Majestic is similar to his other films, where Darabont tries to portray what is important in life.  In this time post 9/11, Darabont brings back the American patriotic theme and The Constitution the basis for this country's foundations.The use of background lighting helps place this film in its timeframe. The same kind of lighting used in Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.   It helps add a sense of mystery to both films.The Majestic, is an entertaining, but sappy film.  It brings back the American values, and strives on the World War II bonding of the American people to defeat its enemy's.  In today's high society we all have lost site of the principals and foundations that this country was built on.  We've gotten comfortable with our way of life, without having to defend our country.  After 9/11, this films timing may for a little while renew those values and principals of country and patriotism we all have put aside for our own selfish wants.  "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great film, undoubtedly Carrey's finest work. Martin Landau was, as usual, outstanding. Carrey's habit of over acting scenes, as he did in Liar! Liar!, The Grinch, The Mask, etc., didn't come in to play in this film, set in post-WWII rural California. He played the role of Peter Appleton/Luke Trimble to the hilt. I look forward to seeing more of Mr. Carrey's work in serious roles.  I give it a 9. A Must See and it should be nominated for several categories by the Academy.  "},{"Title":"A good movie.  B","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Carrey has done a number of great drama movies, like Man On The Moon and the Truman Show, and this isn't one of them.  But it's still an average movie.  His acting is fine as usual, and the story is kind of cool and noir.  I recommend it. B, 7/10 "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey shines!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    I've never been a big fan of Jim Carrey's larickinisn, however, he could not have found a better vehicle than 'The Majestic' to move form the idiot funny man to serious actor.   The storyline is excellent and the supporting cast, notably Martin Landau (Space 1999) David Ogden-Stiers (M*A*S*H), old timer James Whitmore (50's Navy man) and newcomer, Laurie Holden make the movie a dream to watch.  10/10 for Jim and I hope to see him in other serious roles in the future!  "},{"Title":"A dignified Hollywood achievement","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While understanding American social, political, and cultural history of the 1950s (particularly the McCarthy witch hunts and their effect on Hollywood) is useful background for understanding this film, suspension of disbelief is particularly important to enjoy The Majestic.This movie is not really about politics. Politics is just the backdrop. The Majestic is more about Jim Carey's character's fear of confronting a major stumbling block in his career. Being blacklisted for something he claims not to have been a part of is enough to send him into a tailspin which ultimately sees him suffering from amnesia in a small California town where he ultimately finds family, love, acceptance and meaning in his life.Is it believable that some collective psychosis exists in that town which leads everyone to believe that Jim Carey is someone he isn't? No it is not. But does this hamper the film's underlying meaning or prevent viewers from enjoying this film? Not at all. Therefore, suspension of disbelief is mandatory for viewers to have a satisfying cinematic experience. If viewers can overlook the unbelievable premise of mistaken identity and the inability of most to recognize it, or at least to publicly admit it, they will like what they see. Jim Carey gives perhaps the best performance of his career as Peter Appleton, Hollywood screenwriter. Martin Landau, owner of The Majestic movie theater and father of Carey's apparent look-a-like, also gives a terrific portrayal of a man who lost then regains a son and the ability to realize a dream to rebuild the theater he once proudly owned and operated. The supporting cast is terrific, from the theater usher to Laurie Holden, who plays Adele Stanton, the town doctor's daughter who was once engaged to the person Carey is supposed to be. She becomes a lawyer, a Constitutional defender, and Carey's inspiration to confront Congress and realize his own dream for personal happiness away from Hollywood but very much within its world. See The Majestic for a dignified Capra-inspired view of Hollywood filled with plenty of excellent performances. 8/10. "},{"Title":"I am not a Jim Carrey fan...but I loved this movie","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just watched this movie for the second time.  Then I went and read many of the reviews.  Yes...it's a bit sappy - and a lot like the Capra movies...but...what's wrong with that?  I guess Jim Carrey fans will not like it.  But (IMHO) this is the first time Jim Carrey ever really had a good part and did very well in it.If you want a good, clean, old-fashioned movie that you can watch with your parents and/or kids - this is it.  No violence, no nudity, only one curse word said two times.  It's not a bad thing either that young people will learn about the McCarthy hearings and how much damage they did to a lot of people.For those of you who want action and adventure - this ain't it.  If you liked It's a Wonderful Life (James Stewart), you'll like this.  And I'll bet It's a Wonderful Life didn't do as well when it first came out either.I hope Jim Carrey takes on more serious parts and stops trying to imitate Jerry Lewis.  In addition to Carrey, there are many good actors/performances in this movie - James Whitmore, Hal Holbrook, David Ogden Stiers and Martin Landau. "},{"Title":"A good direction for Jim Carrey","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a pleasant film that is more important for what it isn't than what it is.  There have been many comparisons between this film and the work of legendary director Frank Capra.  That is easy to do because it is a very human story set in the 1940's and it ends with a senate hearing that is reminiscent of `Mr. Smith Goes to Washington'.  However, Capra was always very black and white when it came to good and evil, with his heroes almost saintly and his villains dastardly and despicable.  This film has more gray overtones and flawed characters.  This is not necessarily a bad thing, but it does take it out of the realm of being truly Capraesque.Even more importantly, this film isn't another lowbrow gross out flick by Jim Carrey.  Carrey gives a likeable performance reminiscent of `The Truman Show', with not a hint of the repugnant and boorish behavior that made him famous.  I can only pray that despite the poor box office of this film, Carrey will attempt to build on this and move in the direction that Robin Williams went, toward more substantial screenplays and real acting.  His next project, `The Children of the Dust Bowl' is a true story of a professor who set up a school for kids in the Oklahoma dust bowl in the 1930's, so he seems to have changed his script selection criteria.  That would be a blessing as he is far too talented to be wasting his life on body fluid humor.The film itself is schmaltzy and nostalgic, and it gets a little strident at the end as it tries too hard to repudiate the blacklisting and red paranoia of the 1940's and 1950's.  It is an easy story to enjoy, although it is hard for the viewer to believe that anyone in this town could possibly have thought Peter Appleton (Carrey) was really Luke Trimble.  It is as if everyone really knew the truth, but they wanted to deceive themselves.Director Frank Darabont (`The Green Mile', `The Shawshank Redemption') does a nice job on the period renderings (except not enough men in hats; hats were the rule for men during that period) with costumes and props that bring the times to life.The acting is very good.  I like Jim Carrey much better as a dramatic actor or a bittersweet comic than as a fatuous chuff.  Carrey is extremely affable as Peter, and plays the romantic parts with Laurie Holden well.  However, he is tentative in the Washington scenes, unable to summon up the resolute defiance necessary for the situation.  Martin Landau is terrific as Luke's father, bringing the character an almost delusional enthusiasm that is simultaneously charming and pathetic.  Laurie Holden also does a nice job of portraying Adele, taking a grounded character and slowly melting her emotionally as she falls in love with Luke/Peter.This is not a great film, but other than the political drum beating it is an agreeable (though improbable) feel good flick.  I rated it a 7/10.  Let's hope this portends a trend in Jim Carrey's career away from the disgusting schlock for which he has made millions.     "},{"Title":"I absolutely LOVE Jim Carrey","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a little long, but not really...know the feeling?  All scenes were necessary, and the movie had great continuity.  Jim Carrey is a perfectionist in every scene.  His comedic ability is known so very well, but his dramatic and sensitive side was revealed in this movie as well.I highly endorse this movie for story line, acting and characters...very, very involving and believable.  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey stars in this very long movie","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me warn, that if you have not watched this movie, and don't know how long the movie runs, you will not be in for about a 90 minute movie, but instead a 232 minute movie. Dr. Seuss's How the Grinch Stole Christmas's star Jim Carrey is the star again. As the movie opens, Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey) is a movie writer, and his debut movie he wrote called Sand Pirates of the Sahara has opened. But trouble winds up and Peter breaks up with his girlfriend. (Spoiler Warning) He gets drunk. And winds up in a crash, on a bridgers and he and his car falls into the water, and then Peter loses his memory. He winds up on the beach waken up by a old man (James Whitmore) and a dog. He is brought to the town of Lawson. Where is mistaken for a lost army solider named Luke Trimble. (Spoiler Warning #2) The movie is named The Majestic after a movie theater of the same name. This is a not great movie but good movie. Worth a look, but worth the money to buy, I don't know. 8/10                "},{"Title":"liberal cotton candy","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It never ceases to amaze me what the liberals serve up as an intellectual alternative to the mundane predictability of the corporate mainstream.  The end result inevitably turns out more preachy and chauvinistic than the religious right they so quickly criticize.  The Majestic is a waste of perfectly good talents to accomplish what a myriad of Hollywood foot soldiers have been pounding away at for decades.  The message that anyone that opposes communism is evil.  Though I don't disagree that the 1950's HUAC, and especially the response of Hollywood's leadership, was mostly a disgrace,  I also am not so naive that I believe communists are not at war with democracy.  What I don't need is to pay to go to someone's idea of church for the ignorant.  If a movie has a message, it should be buried in the story, not pounded into your ear with a tent mallet.  A very good example of how it is done right is  Roberto Benini's La Vita Bella.  The Majestic, on the other hand, goes so far as to suggests that WWII was fought primarily to defend the first amendment.  For those who are not familiar with WWII, it was fought to stop a @#%!ing madman from taking over the world, not to defend the US constitution.  Semantics I suppose.Overt political opinions, unfortunately, are not The Majestic's only problem.  The film suffers mostly from bad directorial decisions.  Primarily, hiring Jim Carrey to play a romantic lead in a serious film.  I love Jim Carrey, but he is no Jimmy Stewart.  Carrey's performance is horribly flat and lifeless here.  He is simply not ready for a role this heavy.  And if that weren't bad enough, the director paces the film with constant dramatic pauses so large you could drive a predicable ending through them.  I also found myself second guessing all the events that were forecasted by the obviousness of the script and directing, and amazingly batted 1000 out of a dozen or so guesses.  It was that predictable.  Then there is the music.  What is it with the sound in today's movies?  Is everybody trying to win an academy award for their department?  If it's not Foley madness, then it's the sweeping big ending strings that tug at your heart... 30 seconds into the film and don't stop until end credits begin.  Speaking of academy awards, Director of Photography David Tattersol does an outstanding job.  The film is a visual delight, which only compounds the problem, because it makes you want to like this film.  The supporting cast was also outstanding.  If Carrey is intending on pursuing serious dramatic roles, I hope he payed close attention to Martin Landau.  Landau had more energy dying than Carrey had living.I read in a WGA interview that freshman writer Michael Sloane actually combined two script ideas he had to form this script, one on the House UnAmerican Activities Committees in Hollywood, and another on saving an old dilapidated theater.  Perhaps either on their own would have made a fine script, especially if he would have paid more attention to the story and less to the message.  For homework I recommend he and his high school pal Frank Darabont listen to the difference between Stevie Wonder's Living for the city, and Morton Downey Jr.'s I believe in America. "}{"Title":"How about a good romantic movie with wine and CHEESE.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has a good plot, good actors, good setting.  The only thing that brings this movie down is it ranks a 2.5 in reality.  I just don't enjoy movies that over-dramatize scenes strictly for the Hollywood Effect.  I recommend the movie, but don't watch it thinking it is a believeable story. "},{"Title":"MESSAGES WERE GREAT, DELIVERY WAS SO-SO","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE MAJESTIC starts off well enough, but tends to get too melodramatic for its own good, in parts. Jim Carrey plays it straight, and does a good job pulling it off. He's got some strong support here from a group of Hollywood vets like James Whitmore and Martin Landau. A nice cameo from Hal Holbrook was appreciated by this writer.In fact, the cast is fine, the script seems to be the problem here. Sometimes, it felt very heavy handed in its messages, and how it got from point A to B. I mean, yes, THE MAJESTIC is schmaltzy....actually a lot. There was more than a little CAPRA-esque feeling or CAPRA-corn, as it was sometimes referred to. Personally, I didn't feel the bad guys were portrayed as menacingly as they should have been.  Subtlety is really important sometimes, and by gum, THE MAJESTIC is in short supply of it. This was bothersome, as it detracted from the seriousness of the film. The change of hearts, the winning of minds; their plausibility is questionable with such a lack of sufficient and reasonable timing and dialogue. Yet, it's so likeable, it made it over the hump to be recommended.    "},{"Title":"Pleasentville meets Sommersby","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie deserves a high rating just because everybody should see it. The story is simple Pleasentville meets Sommersby. But it's such a beautiful feelgood movie that you don't mind the cliches. Jim Carrey proofs that he can act in drama as well.  If you like a nice little story, then The Majestic is just the film for you! "},{"Title":"It made me laugh; it made me cry.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, let me say that Jim Carrey was ROBBED of an Oscar nomination on this one. When I first started watching it, I said there's no way Oscar will pass him by this time. Then I realized it was a 2001 movie. Go figure. I hope Jim continues to take serious roles. We know you're funny, but you shine so much brighter as this type of character.I loved the music, the simplicity, the antiques, and the all the other nostalgia. It made me realize why my parents loved the era. It was a tender, sweet, excellent story line, absent of gratuitous sex, drug usage and other savage things that have become so commonplace. And it really makes you question the logic of the McCarthy hearings, as well as that of the dum-dums in charge of Oscars (not that there was ever any there to begin with... what were they thinking??) "},{"Title":"A good-feelin film!","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Shawshank Redemption is the best movie that I have ever seen! So, I did not watch The Majestic in the hopes that it would be better then Shawshank, because there is no way that Frank Darabont can top his best work. The Green mile was good, and The Majestic is good.  Jim Carrey does a great job in this film. Sometimes I felt that he was overacting a bit too much, but overall he does a great job. Martin Landau should have received a best supporting actor nod for his role in this film. This guy is good! In my opinion, he got overlooked for the oscars.  I have heard people complain about how the people in the town were portrayed.  In the fifties, it was polite to say hello, going to the movies was the thing to do, and people treated others with kindness.  It's good to see films can still make you feel good, cause this film did for me.  Jim Carrey is on his way to becoming a top-notch actor. A truly, good feeling film that is for everyone. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable story.  Some good parts.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After Shawshank and Green Mile my expectations were high.  I must say that I was impressed by the movie.  If found the first two acts most enjoyable.  The third act (the ending) I found a little bit hackneyed yet implausible.  If you have seen it then you may know what I mean where I claim there is too much clapping and cheering.I enjoyed most the middle part of the movie.  Seeing Jim Carrey adapt to the life thrust upon him was great.  A mystery develops and that mystery is what is the true identity of the Jim Carrey character?  Some genuinely good moments. "},{"Title":"Hell of a lot to digest here, some you'd want to spit out.","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For a while here I figured I was looking at a a 10 rating unfold before me, but hey, Frank Capra really wasn't here after all!  Unsure whether it wanted to be a kind of WIZARD OF OZ for adults, CINEMA PARADISO for pseudo-romantics or maybe a partial re-make of GUILTY BY SUSPICION, from which it lifts plenty let me tell ya, THE MAJESTIC certainly has its moments. Simple little tale of screen writer Peter Appleton who through circumstances, finds himself named as a communist sympathiser and who is to appear before a Senate hearing to answer accusations as to his communistic leanings. Instead he drives off a bridge, awakes in a cutesy township with total memory loss and is taken for a long dead war hero, the son of Harry Trimble who lives above the old dilapidated and boarded up cinema..THE MAJESTIC. You just KNOW they're gonna get round to fixing the old building up and that is one of the (admittedly) minor problems with the film - so much is telegraphed to the audience twenty minutes or so before it actually occurs.Martin Landau as the old theater owner delivers what is probably the performance of his (supporting) career...quite as good as his role as Bela Lugosi in ED WOOD. His evoked joy at finding what he believes is his long-lost son is pure cinema magic - as is so much in this film. Carrey is at times screaming out for an Oscar, awesome in fact at the least expected moment. He manages to quell the goofy Carrey on a number of occasions just as his alter ego is about to let fly....a commendable effort.Two things which really detract. The excessive length...and we're talking GLADIATOR run-time here! This really causes the film to lag in places and it would have been vastly improved with 30 minutes or so shaved from its length. Of greatest concern however, the tacky and trite ending which reeks of absolute desperation as to How the hell are we going to wrap this thing up? on the part of the production team. It just comes off as flat and highly unworthy of the 146 minutes which preceded it.Some fine supporting roles here. Laurie Holden as Luke Trimble's old girlfriend Adele shares some beautifully natural and understated scenes with Carrey. Allen Garfield too as Leon, maintains a wonderful dignity about his character throughout the film. A must-see movie though a flawed one. Probably not quite enough to win Carrey an Oscar though a nomination would be in order. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's best movie? At least when it comes to drama","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a surprise. I had a hard time picturing Jim to play a drama of such caliber such as this movie. I was touched by Harry Trimble's (Martin Landau) affection toward his newly found son, or at least as he thought he was. I truly understand how a person can become the happiest of persons just by finding somebody they thought they lost forever. I really felt all those feelings the writer of this movie probably intended the audience to feel. On a more personal level, I'd give movies like this a grade of at least 7 out of 10. If you don't agree, this kind of movies is nothing for you and you are a sociopath without feelings, empathy and so onFurthermore, as I stated earlier, I had problem imaging Jim to play this kind of genre. I first though it would be a mix of drama/comedy, but he managed to stick to drama. Nothing bad about it, quite the opposite. I've just about had enough with those cheesy comedy's. This is just the kind of movie I'd like to see more with him in.Way to go Jim! "},{"Title":"One of the years best!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was by far one of the best movies that I've seen in a long time. THE MAJESTIC is just like those other 'feel-good' movies. They try to be emotional and inspiring. Just like THE GREEN MILE, THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION and other movies of that caliber, it is a winner. It follows a blacklisted Hollywood screen-writer who loses his memory after a car accident and in a nearby town is mistaken for a local soldier who died during World War II. The movie is about two and a half hours long, but every second of it is well spent. This is one movie that people will look back on in a few years. 5/5. "},{"Title":"somebody give this fellow an Oscar, please!!!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw Jim Carey in 'The Mask' I liked both the movie and the actor. But then there followed 'Ace Ventura' and so on... So when I went to see 'The Truman Show' I, although being aware of the comments (stunning, deep and on), was expecting to see the same stupid jokes and grimaces. What I felt after the movie, you, who have seen it, probably know. Since then I changed my opinion about Jimmy. I ain't seen 'The man on the moon' but I went for 'The Majestic' although it was kind of criticised. So, here's what I thinkHe's really given another great performance. And, what was especially great, I loved the entire atmosphere of the movie. It REALLY is a kind, full of emotion and a rather exciting story. It takes you to the seemingly quiet world of a little American town with it's own problems and it's personal drama. The atmosphere of 50s and some jazz melodies remind you of that golden era and Sinatra. And, of course, Carey is absolutely GREAT here, yes, I intend to say that this fellow is a GREAT actor.If you had a chance to see for example, 'Chocolate' (an Oscar nominee in 2000), 'The Majestic' is like it, thanks to the special atmosphere. But the stunning performance of Jim Carey makes it a much better candidate for the prize... which it will never get. Pity. But the movie will remain, a little jewel in what I hope will become a long awaited crown for this actor one day.Just go and see it. "}{"Title":"Another Great Serious Role","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is another great serious role for Jim Carrey in another great deep movie.  But I think that once again the academy will pass him up on this one as well.  I definitely thought that the Truman Show was the best movie of that year and Carrey's best performance to date.  It was a crossover movie for him, half funny and half serious, but this movie is completely serious. You won't be seeing any of Carrey's bathroom humor or physical gags.  This is totally serious Carrey on a subject that has barely been touched by Hollywood - that of the Blacklist.  Here we see Carrey, a B-movie screenwriter, who is blacklisted for having attended a peace club in college.  It shows the totally ridiculousness and power of the McCarthy committee.  But this is only part of the movie, or more like half of the real point.  This is combined with a look at the pain and despair of a town decimated by all its sons killed in World War II.  Carrey is mistaken for one of these missing in action sons and assumes his role since he has amnesia.  Through Carrey's time in the town he eventually gains courage and strength that he never had from a person he never knew - the very one he had been mistaken for.  Also, he brings some happiness back to the town and helps them get over their mourning.  All in all, this story combines patriotism, standing up for what's right, courage, and willingness to change.Regardless, I think this movie shows once again that Carrey is moving towards what Tom Hanks did many years ago.  Hanks started out as a small time comedian in little respected movies, but he moved onward to becoming one of the best actors of today with several great roles and academy awards under his belt as well.  I doubt Carrey will ever achieve the status of Hanks, but he definitely deserves to be given a great deal more respect now for what he has done.  Carrey isn't Ace Ventura anymore. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly my favorite film of 2001","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Disregarded as sappy by most viewers, the Majestic pulled all the right heartstrings for me. I'm an avid movie fan, and Martin Landau's speech prior to the renovation of the Majestic reminded me of how I can manage to wade through all of the terrible films that annually shock and dumbfound me. It's perfectly titled, containing a mystical air throughout the course of the film. The courtroom scene reminded me of another misjudged diamond in the rough Amistad, where Anthony Hopkins puts the Supreme Court on trial. The speeches are deliberately slow-paced, adding a realistic quality that is missing in many more rigidly improbable speeches that are more viewer-friendly. Like most good movies, this is one where you'll get what you want to take out of it... I'm indebted to these films for pulling me out of my overly critical mindset and letting beauty sink in and pull those long forgotten heartstrings. "},{"Title":"What a wonderful flick!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes we need a film that really speaks to the human spirit and is willing to defend the actions of the righteous. The Majestic bleeds apple pie and red, white and blue, but what other time than post 9/11 is there a better time to reaffirm our love for our country and stand up for our values? Jim Carrey should do more roles like this. As an blacklisted Hollywood screenwriter in the McCarthy era, he wanders into a town where he is mistaken for a long declared dead WWII hero, much to the surprise, delight and confusion of his father and girlfriend. With strong characters, a bold story, and all the whimsy and feel-goodness of a Capra film, I was most touched by Peter/Luke establishing relationships and the re-opening of the dilapidated Majestic Theater. Maybe since I work in a theater it spoke to me as Peter/Luke went into the ticket booth and began to sell the tickets for the major re-opening that mirrors the re-awakening of the town.Top it all off with a satisfying ending, The Majestic is a winner. I know many of the critics wrote it off and its performance at the box office was nothing to write home about. Props to Jim Carrey and all the folks who gave this viewer something to cheer about. "},{"Title":"Right Movie, Wrong Audience","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a really good movie.  It's a shame that younger people trashed it. I believe they did this out of lack of knowledge of the time period.  Red Channels is something truly lost on my generation.  For those of you who don't know, Red Channels was a book written accussing several in Hollywood of being Communists in an effort led by Joe McCarthy.  Similar to the Salem Witch trials written about in Arthur Miller's The Crucible, The Majestic shows how quickly one can lose everything just through accusations. It's funny how the time period might be lost on younger generations. The Russians used to be feared and now everyone thinks nothing of the country or may chuckle at them calling them drunks.  But in this time period, people were scared to death of being associated with the Russians.  I think Carey is a great actor and his bashing of the Academy has cost him at least a couple of Oscar nods.( Truman Show, Man on the Moon)  Like Man on the Moon where the audience knew nothing of Andy Kaufman, Carey chose the right part for him for the wrong audience.  "},{"Title":"What a heartwarming story.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a very heartwarming story.  It reminded me of The Truman Story, but this one made more sense.  Jim Carrey shows his versatility more and more as he applies his craft.  I hope that he will continue to surprise us in the future with many different characterizations.  He's certainly proving to be up to the challenge.  "},{"Title":"Darabont's familiar tale...","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, but I agree with some other comments I read that said it was predictable and slow and sentimentally patronizing.One thing I realized, that I'm sure has been noted elsewhere, is that Frank Darabont has now made essentially the same movie three times in a row (Green Mile and Shawshank Redemption), or at least the basic premise, which is that someone who doesn't really belong somewhere ends up transforming and uplifting the place, and exploring the idea of the freedom of the spirit. I much preferred Shawshank Redemption, which is one of my all-time favorite films, to The Majestic, but it's still worth seeing for some nice little moments here and there. Like Shawshank, I may end up liking this more upon repeat viewings, but I'd have to give it a few years to see again...It was also funny to see Bruce Campbell, the perennial B-movie actor and author of If Chins Could Kill - Confessions of a B-Movie Actor, as the star of Appleton's B-movie.-EE- "},{"Title":"A passing-grade but not great drama","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  RATING  *** / ****Remember old Hollywood? Forget what was going on behind the scenes; remember what the movies used to be. Remember when the stars were gods and goddesses, fifty cents could go a long way, and movie theaters were palaces? Remember when the movies were more than distractions, but magical? This kind of wonder isn't re-incarnated in Frank Darabont's latest film The Majestic, but it's nice to come across a movie that remembers what film really used to be about.Jim Carrey is Peter Appleton, a screenwriter living at the beginning of the end of Hollywood's magic era. He has a comfortable life, and he believes he is on the verge of moving from writing B pictures to the A list. Unfortunately for him, someone has named him as a communist and he is placed on the infamous Hollywood blacklist. His girlfriend dumps him and his production is shut down, leaving him with little. He decides to go for a drive and clear his mind, which is hard to do when one is drunk. Fate rears it's ugly head when he loses control of his car and falls off of a high bridge into a river. He washes up on the beach near a small town without any memory. He is taken up to the town, who is very hospitable to him. To them he seems awfully familiar. Harry Trimble (Martin Landau) knows why he believes that Peter is his long lost son Luke. The town tries to give him back his memory, constantly reminding of his life before he left for the war. Now, as Hollywood agents search for their supposed communist spy, he is trying to remember who he is.As Peter starts to accept the fact that he is most likely Luke Trimble, he leads a quest to get the Majestic (the old movie theater he lives above) back into it's former glory. It is in these re-vitalization scenes, and all the scenes inside the Majestic, that homage is paid to the Hollywood of everyone's dreams. When the Majestic is lit up, it becomes a Taj Mahal of wonder and amazement. In the outside world, Hollywood may be full of dishonest vultures looking for their next victim. But inside the Majestic, it is only movies; anything that meant anything was up on the screen until the final fadeout.The Majestic is a simple, straightforward soap opera that is saved by the good graces of Jim Carrey. Carrey is one of the most under appreciated actors in the business today, mostly because of some of the movies he's been in. It's hard for a lot of people to accept Carrey as more than a goofball that relies on poor slapstick to get him through, but Carrey has broken out of that mold. I was pleasantly surprised with his performance in The Truman Show, but he really impressed me with Man on the Moon. Now he takes another role into his own hands. Even when the film is at it's most fluffy, Carrey keeps it grounded in reality. Take Peter's trial in front of the House of Un-American Activities (those guys that started the blacklist). The script (sloppily constructed by Michael Sloane) wants it to be an melodramatic showstopper, but Carrey knows better than that. He makes the scene believable and remembers he's talking to people and that he's not the only actor in the scene. A lot of actors have trouble learning how to do that these days. Martin Landau also gives a wonderful performance worthy of recognition as the father who's desperate to bring his son back to life.The film is far from without fault. Director Frank Darabont has developed a complex that makes him feel the need to make movies no less than two and a half hours long, and to be honest, too much of The Majestic is dead air. When Carrey cries out Don't tell me that's what Luke would have done, as if I haven't heard that enough today! I could sympathize with him completely. We're trying to believe in a character who doesn't exist, and we're given an incredible amount of chatter about the kind of person Luke Trimble was. Each discovery about Luke is brought about like a new revelation (and presented with some more speechifying), but there were too many times when I was just thinking who cares? Long movies don't always equal excellence.The Majestic is a recommendable film that can remember how fun pictures used to be, but is too wrapped up in it's own little details to pass any of that energy onto the audience. Carrey redeems the film from the scrap pile and makes it into a presentable piece. The acting is a diamond in the rough that will not get the attention it deserves due to the rest of the mush surrounding it. The protagonist of The Majestic is constantly fighting for originality in his work, but the film itself can be just as tiresome as the ideas pitched at him. Expect a nice but forgettable journey that's heart lies in the performances of Carrey and Landau. "},{"Title":"All I have to say is... Great!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, after reading all the reviews and what critics said about the film and Jim Carrey, I think I have a clue of what is going on. The Majestic is probably considered a film of sappy and boringness, and the critic and the golden globe did not like it. My opinion is, you can never see the real thing until you are open enough to accept it. People definitely didn't accept the real Jim Carrey, as they were all expecting him to SUCK in this film. Why? Simply because he is labeled as a comic actor. But why can't they just let the actors act and really see what is already there? The casts in this film were great, and Jim Carrey was definitely not phony. The scrip is cool, maybe a few more interesting incidents will make more people want to see it. When there is nothing left but the truth, I guess things gets interesting really but boring to the ignorant ones.I will recommend this film to anyone who is willing to see something worldly and far away from the high-tech world. And one more thing, to all of you who made horrible comments on Jim Carrey, remember this everyone works hard to be on the top, and being on the top is pressured greatly. "},{"Title":"Carrey was able to do this dramatic role without once mugging to the camera.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE MAJESTIC  *+__  / Drama/Romance /  Jim Carrey, Martin Landau, Laurie HoldenIn the early 1950s, a young screenwriter is blacklisted, has an auto accident, and develops amnesia. All this is in the first reel. A small town takes him for a long-lost son, and he has an effect on many people there. Credit must be given to Carrey for a credible (if not inspired) dramatic performance. The film consists of three basic stories which seem artificially cobbled together. The plot line moves along somewhat slowly, but remains watchable. I enjoyed the sub-plot concerning restoration of the old movie theater.   "},{"Title":"Good Movie...GREAT Acting!!!!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You know, I've been reading some of the reviews on Amazon.com and on here and most of them has been positive, but the ones that wrote not too good reviews about the movie and Jim Carrey, are you guys blind and stupid? The movie is good. And Jim Carrey shouldn't have to prove he can act. Those who don't see that he is AMAZING in this movie, is blind!!! It's bad enough he got robbed of a Golden Globe nomination, but nobody wants to take him seriously. I always knew he had this kind of acting inside of him. Somebody on here says that he makes a better dramatic actor than comedic and I agree. I prefer him in his dramatic roles. Entertainment Weekly said in their stupid sarcasm that fans don't wanna see Jim Carrey in this kind of role....HA!! I'm tired of critics trying to speak for the fans. I think we do wanna see him in these kind of roles...at least I do. EW gave Jimmy Neutron a better grade than The Majestic...ok they're messed up. Am I upset? A little. Are some of you watching the same movie I was? After September 11th, I felt leaving this movie, more patriotism. I think everybody should. When they played the National Anthem in the movie and the speech, I LOVED the speech, we all should feel a better sense of patriotism. I'm 23, I'm young and I have heard of the McCarthy Hearings. This movie has no violence, very few cuss words and people hate that? I would prefer to see this type of feel good movie more than another shoot 'em up movie.I'm sorry for my ranting, but I'm not an expert by no means, but I LOVE movies and I know a good movie when I see one. I knew Laurie Holden from watching The X-files so I know how good she is. Anybody who watched her on The X-files know she did harder work on that show and this movie doesn't really let her acting shine. Jim Carrey, on the other hand, is AMAZING!!! He was brilliant in Man on the Moon and Truman Show. Those were dramatic roles so nobody should be surprised anymore. He won a Golden Globe for his work in The Truman Show for crying out loud. Nobody questions Robin Williams anymore and he could drama just as well as comedy and so can Jim Carrey.Those who gave positive reviews for the movie and Jim Carrey..I applaud you on having good taste and recognizing talent when you see it.That's all I have to say. If I offended anyone...sorry...) "}{"Title":"a retrospect to the classics","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i would like to say that this film has a wonderful feel-good quality about it. this is a throwback to the capra classics, and although predictable, it is a film that truly captures the essence of the golden days of hollywood. this is jim carrey at his best, and i think the director could not have picked a better leading man. i highly recommend this film to anyone who loves going to the movies, not expecting anything but wonderful performances and the beauty of a simple story. "},{"Title":"A Very Good Movie","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic was a very good movie . It was better than I expected . Jim Carrey did a good drama role  but I'd rather see him in a comedy movie. You leave the theater feeling like you just saw a good movie , and will recommend it to friends . The Majestic  3 and a half stars out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"JIM CARREY'S BEST PERFORMANCE!!!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  10 stars all the way! Jim Carrey has given his best performance by far and I am glad that he has taken a break from his more comedic roles. He has heart and soul in this film and it should be noted as one of the best films of the year!  "},{"Title":"People, The Film Is Good!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I went to The Majestic, I was expecting to see your normal, average film.  I figured the film itself would be mediocre, but that Jim Carrey's acting would barely hold it together (the same thing that happened in Man on the Moon.)  But this movie was far from that!1. The photography was gorgeous.  It's crystal clear, and the shots of the lighthouse scene could be hung in an art museum.  The colors make up a visual feast.2.  Jim Carrey has never done better.  Ever since Liar Liar, Jim's acting has strengthened and strengthened.  I wouldn't be surprised if in three or four years, Carrey is gettin' some Oscars.3. People criticize the movie for being sentimental and gooey, but I disagree.  The Majestic is the best Capra film that Capra never made.  I wanted to yell triumphantly when Carrey gives his speech in the Salem Witch-Hunt- oops, I mean Un-American Activities trial.  It's a speech that seems lifted from Jimmy Stewart's filibuster in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington.There are two flaws it gets predictable after an hour and a half, and the acting of Adele is unconvincing at times.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  the Majestic, starring Jim Carrey, was a sort of slow movie, but it made up for the speed in content. This movie has a great story line. Carrey does an excellent job as Appleton and Trimble. The director definitely picked the right actor to play the lead role(s). Overall, the majestic is a great movie and I recommend it to all viewers. "},{"Title":"Wonderful homage to film, and proof that Jim can act.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was hugely impressed. This had features I enjoy in old movies but seldom see these days. It had a charming blend of drama, a little comedy, a bit of romance, and tugged at the heartstrings in a way reminiscent of 'It's A Wonderful Life'. If this had been made 50 years ago, this would have been Jimmy Stewart's role... but being set 50 years ago, it probably never would have been made (criticism of blacklisting being a dangerous thing).Carrey is just plain great. No mugging for the camera, no silly faces required. He's growing up nicely as an actor. There is a lot of homage to film, theaters and the old Hollywood. I agree there is a magic there that you just don't get in your living room.Bottom line see it! Great date movie.... "},{"Title":"Overly sentimental pap...","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic, tells the story of a young Hollywood writer in the 50's who works for a minor studio.  His goal is to one day write for the big major theatres, however in the era of McCarthyism, Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey) is branded a communist cause while in college he attended a rally to court a young woman.  Peter must testify and name 'names' if he wants to save his skin.  Shortly after this news spreads, Peter looses his girlfriend, his job, and in a drunken stupor ends up driving off a bridge, falling into a swollen river, knocked unconscious, and ends up washed up on a beach with amnesia.Peter is found by a local fisherman who brings him to his small town remarking that he looks familiar.  By this point in the film I was already groaning at the ridiculous chances of fate and luck that enough was enough, but the film continues with more unbelievable surprises.  Once Peter walks into town a resident becomes convinced that it is his long lost son who went missing in the war.  The town is in awe that 'Luke' has returned home even though he doesn't know who he is, and his father who just HAPPENS to own a movie theatre wants to re-open it now that Luke is back.The films fault isn't the acting, but the ridiculous overuse of surprise and co-incidence that makes things just too annoying, and mostly unbelievable to the viewer.  You find that most of them don't even seem realistic, from Peter's survival in the accident, a town that has lost several residents to the war, to the fact that the McCarthy era was much more meaner than portrayed in this film, and that people just didn't 'walk' away from it so easily.The film also tries for ridiculous sentimentality but none of the charm. The Majestic theatre is a TOTAL rip off of the theatre in Cinema Paradiso which is a PHENOMENAL movie.  I couldn't help but feel how much this movie was trying to imitate its magic but failing misserably.  The final court-room scene is also overly dramatized and very unrealistic (he just walks out... I don't think so..).Carrey isn't the fault in this film, he is good if not ok, it is the fact that they try to for a political heart-tugging social message which gets lost in a sea of overly sacchrined sugar patriotism.  It was very fake.Unrealistic, long, tedious, boring, not believable.  I seemed that the only movie I liked was the little black and white swashbuckling B-movie that Peter wrote that was shown in the film.  When you know you find that more interesting than the film your suppose to be watching you know something is definatly wrong.Rating 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Look deeper into its meaning and background","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Shawshank Redemption is my favorite movie. In fact, I watched it again today just hours before I viewed The Majestic. I didn't plan it to be that way, but it ended up that I could compare the two Darabont films in a way. I also noticed several people in The Majestic who were from The Shawshank Redemption.Anyway, I wanted to see the Majestic because I like the director. Here's what I thought. The movie was a good, entertaining story with a happy ending. I surrender that it was a little cheesy at times, but I think that was put there. The movie was set in the 50's, and I think Darabont wanted to make it seem appropriate for the time, and 50's entertainment is cheesy.I also thought that the name of the movie is a poor choice. The movie wasn't really about the theater. Jim Carrey showed that he can act. Call me crazy, but I don't really like Carrey as a comedian. I like him as an actor who shows talent in films like this.I wish that more people could like a movie without thinking that they need to be entertained every moment of the film. Character development can be boring. So can profound concepts. This movie is aimed at a more sophisticated audience. Everyone has his or her own opinion, and that's fine. My opinion is that if you didn't like this movie, perhaps (not automatically) it is because you just didn't get it. Ponder it a little more.Some thought provoking concepts I pondered during and after the film are as follows Living in someone else's shadow, living up to expectations, conformity, standing up for what is noble, what a hero is, whether or not society as a whole has progressed since the Salem witch trials if we are still hunting for them in the 1950's, whether or not we have progressed since then. Freedom of speech, life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness. This may sound corny, but to me it is not.This movie had a purpose, and it wasn't to keep one entertained for a mere 2 1/2 hours. It was to leave an impression. At least that's what I took from it. Think about it.The courtroom scene was my favorite, it literally gave me chills. "},{"Title":"A majestic disappointment...","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy was I looking forward to this movie. Not just because I am a fan of Frank Darabont's previous films The Green Mile and The Shawshank Redemption, but also because it was the first film in which I was an extra. I played one of the actors in convict uniforms in the studio scene at the beginning of the film. Unfortunately I am not visible in the scene (although all 4 of the other convicts I worked with ARE). The other two scenes we filmed at the studio were cut out of the film.And that, I think, is part of the problem. This story needed more development at the beginning - it was too quick before the accident - we needed time to get to know the Jim Carrey character and appreciate who he was before everything happens. We also need more time to understand the problem he has and to let the seriousness of the issue sink in before moving on. That would help justify the movie's concluding scenes better.If anything should have been cut, it's the very very slow moving middle of the film. This film makes The Straight Story look like Gone in 60 Seconds  - that's how terribly slow it is. I even got up to use the bathroom at one point - something I NEVER do in movies.The acting is passable but I expected more. While we were filming, Mr. Darabont would insist on many, many takes - as many as 25 for the outdoor studio scene. Jim Carrey said that this method of filming gives you nuances in performances that you don't get from just one take. I disagree. I think when you have that many takes, you get actors that are not willing to commit to give it their all because they know there will be another 20 takes to come (or because there have just been a previous 20 takes earlier and they are tired). And this shows clearly in the acting here.I don't know whether to fault the script, the direction, or the acting-- I think it's a combination of all three. This movie simply does not work as a whole.Rating - 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cliched, predictable, corny, sappy, WONDERFUL!","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In the '50's this might have been considered a great movie. Sure, I knew how it would end and could predict almost every step along the way. The only thing I missed was I thought the background music at the end would be ...a hundred yellow ribbons 'round the old oak tree. But I cried and cheered anyway. Ok, so it's schmaltzy. We need more movies like this, especially after 9-11.  "}{"Title":"Standing for right gives meaning to the lives of those who have sacrificed to protect our freedoms","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was an excellent movie!  I know that not everyone would have the interest or patience to view this movie.  That is unfortunate because the message of this movie is superb.  Everytime we stand for right we give meaning to the lives of those in our world who have sacrificed their lives for the freedoms we, as Americans, hold dear.  Even though this movie would probably not have a wide appeal to all ages, I hope other movie makers will pick up on this theme and carry the message, in their own style, to the audience they each appeal to.  Thanks to all who were involved in this movie.  What a great movie for Americans to view, especially now! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the year hands down!","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is I think the best movie of the year. The movie and the cast have Oscar written all over them, especially Jim Carrey. One of the best performances of an actor I have ever seen. I won't be surprised if in 50 years this film is aired on AMC. Frank Darabont no doubt made another great Oscar worthy film. This movie can no doubt get a nomination for Best Picture and Best Actor for Jim Carrey. I recommend this film to everyone, it is appropriate for everyone, so bring the whole family.10/10 "},{"Title":"Star Power Saves the Day","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is formulaic, sluggish and predictable.  However, thanks to its enormously appealing star, it manages to hold interest in spite of cliché piled upon cliché.  Carey proves his that his star status is well deserved.  He gives a wonderfully understated performance that is quite believable in a film that is not terribly credible.  The cast also includes such trusty veterans as Martin Landau, James Whitmore, Hal Holbrook and Gerry Black who are always solid.  It's beautifully photographed by David Tattersall with a lush music score by Mark Isham.  It has nice sets and costumes, too.  There are occasional anachronisms (e.g., people in 1951 dancing to `Stranger on the Shore,' a song that was not written until 1962), but it remains an enjoyable, if farfetched, movie.  It's not a great film, but not terrible, either. "},{"Title":"Good but corny (as it should be)","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Darabont, resposible for the masterpiece The Shawshank Redemption and the bittersweet Green Mile comes back with a non-Stephen King work called the Majestic, a Frank Capra like tale of mistaken identity, old towns, Mr. Smith goes to Washington smiliar scenes and other old fashioned things.  Jim Carrey (he should stick to comedic acting by the way) plays Peter, a B film screenwriter in Hollywood who gets blacklisted and has to testify in front of congress.  But before that happens, Peter accidentally crashes off a bridge and looses his memory, and ends up on the beach next to one of those old towns from the 50's.  He is mistaken for a lost son from the second world war and the town is in cheers over it, including the owner of a old theater called the Majestic (Martin Landau) who decides to rebuild it with his supposed son's return.  An interesting film overall, with characters that we do care about and are played with some good charm and drama, plus a speech in front of congress that is pretty nice, but the film lacks the egde of Darabont's last efforts and has an ending that had me in some disgust actually.  In other words, a fine film for old Capra or 50's films and for others as well, but fans or Carrey's old stuff like Ace Ventura and Dumb and Dumber should beware.  That's Matt Damon's voice towards the end of the film as the voice of the real Luke.  B "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey = Good.  Movie = Disappointing.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before seeing The Majestic I had heard comparisons to It's A Wonderful Life.  Unfortunately the comparison is greatly exaggerated.  As sentiment or uplifting, this film fails in a big way.  It is much too long and I found the dialog to be uninspiring.  Give them credit for bringing another 50's witch hunt to the screen but there is nothing new here.  Jim Carrey does a very good job with hardly anything to work with.  I was prepared to like this film but all I got was disappointment. "},{"Title":"Subdued performance by Jim Carrey is NOT a standout","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie.  Really I did.  I am not a big fan of Jim Carrey, but I am a big fan of Frank Darabont, and therefore, I really wanted to like this movie.  However hard I tried though, I just couldn't like it. It's slow, and I found myself missing Jim Carrey's hyperactive antics from other films.  His performance seems to have been hit hard by a dose of tranquilizer.  One thing I can say though, it's very pretty.  So, if you absolutely must see this movie, don't pay the full price.  Pay for a matinee, or better yet, wait for it to come to a $1.50 theater.  "},{"Title":"The Majestic","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Three years (and four films) after the outstanding act in The Truman Show, the star brought us this second more-serious role. From Frank Darabont, director of The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile, this is an alright film that reminds you of Frank Capra's work, and a pretty predictable story. Basically Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey) is a Hollywood screenwriter in the 1950s, going to drunken despair, and he accidentally drives his car off a bridge, oh, and he banged his head really hard. He is found washed up on a beach by Harry Trimble (Ed Wood's Martin Landau), who is convinced by the striking resemblance, that he is his son, Luke Trimble. As the story goes on, everyone is pleased that Luke may be back, as he was such a big person to them, and with his amnesia, he believes it all. He even helps Harry's old cinema, The Majestic, get back into business, and falls for the real Luke's girlfriend, Adele Stanton (Laurie Holden). It is when watching one of his films that Peter remembers his true self, but he continues his new identity till Harry dies and he tells the truth. It is a court case where he also gives his opinion of what he did, and eventually wins the hearts of the town he lived for the few months. Also starring David Ogden Stiers as Doc Stanton, James Whitmore as Stan Keller, Rob Reiner as a Studio executive and Matt Damon as the voice of Luke's letter. Worth watching, at least once! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable till the end.","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't really have high hopes for this picture. A film with Jim Carrey that's supposed to have emotional content? But after seeing his performance in Eternal Sunshine I rented The Majestic and was positively surprised.First I would like to remark on the setting of this film, it's placed in 1950's America during the years of Communist Witchhunt's of which the lead, played by Carrey becomes a victim. The film makes a real effort to create this atmosphere and I have to say it pulls it of very nicely, creating believable space for Carrey to act out his role's frustration.After the summons to appear before the committee Carey starts drinking heavily and get's into a car-crash which gives him amnesia. A river washes him to a small town where he is believed to be a prodigal son. The amnesia and mistaken identity aren't new, especially in the literary world, but the given is used in a very fresh and eloquent way, I registered the fact, but was never annoyed by it.The village of Lawson is portrayed in such a way that it really seems to be a living, breathing town with it's little rarities and interpersonal currents. In many ways I was surprised by the quality of acting in the villagers that made it all so 'real'.If I give it all this praise, then why the seven. A fair question that's easy enough to answer. Although it's easy to see how this movie can be turned into a moralizing story about Communist Hunt's, the right of Free Speech and 'Our Boy's Fighting For Democracy' my biggest surprise was that half way in the movie, it still hadn't moved into this morale. Sure it leaned (sometimes heavily) on these themes, but always believable and relevant (the fallen sons are an integral part to create the setting of the town and 'Luke's' return)But it seems that with half an hour to go the director remembered his mission and sets out to make 'a great American movie about Democracy' but this film isn't the vehicle to that end. It suffers a bit of over-romanticizing in the end, making believability (the strength of it in the beginning) an issue. It has to be said that Paul's speech to the commission is very neatly nuanced, which I really liked and redeemed the film in my eyes. In a non-patronizing way that maybe he did a good deed, he's not the player that makes the rules. So take a 10, account for not always great acting mostly caused by the fact that some relations between people have to be rushed for the script to work, account for the ending then a 7 is a very nice grade. "},{"Title":"Bad Continuity","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't usually nit pick but at the Welcome Home dance when Luke and Adele take the floor the Glen Miller Style band strike up with Stranger on the shore a piece of music with memorable clarinet solo which was written in 1962 some 11 years after the time (1951) depicted in the movie. Refreshing though to see Jim Carrey in a straight faced role , also the depiction of a small Californian town is both atmospheric and pleasant to watch , though not nearly so as the similarly cinema themed Bogdanovich classic  The Last Picture Show . As you can probably tell by now I'm struggling to comply with the mysterious ten lines of text minimum , when all I wanted to do was comment on the kind of continuity which I would normally expect someone to get fired over ! "},{"Title":"Hollywood tries to save face a half-century too late","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic is a fairly entertaining film; but the anti-anti-communist political angle lends a distinctly sour taste. The ending is what Hollywood's socialists (they prefer that term over Communist these days) *wish* had happened. The real-life ending--the collapse of the Soviet Union and subsequent revelations of just how loyal American Communists were to Uncle Joe Stalin--is something Hollywood would rather everyone else forget. "}{"Title":"100 weight Hollywood goo","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic tells a tedious and melodramatic tale (circa post-WWII) about a man (Carrey) who loses his memory and through a case of mistaken identity becomes a small town hero...blaa, blaa, blaa. A very well crafted film with mixed critical reviews, The Majestic flows like honey, sweet and viscous, through countless fabrications of poignancy, romanticism, and idealism with forces of good and evil more obvious than an elephant in an outhouse. The Majestic heralds the golden age of Hollywood in time and milieu and will likely please sentimentalists while serving as an emetic for realists.Note - Some may consider the obvious knock-off of the renown Civil War letter by Sullivan Ballou as a tribute. I personally bristled. "},{"Title":"A muddle","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the first half of this movie, but from then on, I wondered, where are you going with this?  And why?  The movie began to get less and less plausible as it went along.  He tells of the House Unamerican Activities Committee, and gets away with it.  He pays no price, indeed getting applause by those in attendance, and gets a hero's welcome at the small town he decided to make his home.In reality, he would have had his career ended, and maybe gone to prison.  Those who agreed with him would not have dared applaud for fear of coming under suspicion themselves.  But more than the implausibility is the rather jaring mixed messages.  The price that those who died or were injured in the war was made clear, however, the hero of the story pays no price - he continues with his career, and only walks away by his own choice.  It's easy to take a stand when there is no price to pay.  The movie would have been far better if he had paid a price, been blackballed or gone to jail for his convictions. "},{"Title":"SAPPY, UNREALISTIC!!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Please!!  Ignore anything positive you may have heard regarding this movie!! I checked for reviews before going to see it & the vast majority rated this a great show.  There was only one really bad rating - this is the one to listen to!  This movie is looooong, which in itself isn't too bad when you enjoy the characters BUT you don't enjoy these characters because they are so not REAL!!  Very sappy, predictable, unreal in every extreme, waste of time.  I cannot honestly pick even one good moment from this movie.  I have never seen a movie that I disliked more.   "},{"Title":"Forced Script and a very Long Movie","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Incredible that this poor and forced script had reached to be accepted by the producers; and most all!, become a Darabont movie with such a great cast! One of the longest 2 1/2 hours that i have lived so far; i really toughed that i had been sited like 4 hours in front of my TV. The story is so forced and difficult to believe that you start to get tired at the first 50 minutes. Carrey's acting is pretty normal, and i saw comedy signs in some scenes that are difficult to not see after you have Carrey's stile in your mind. (I almost laugh when Carrey is drinking water nervous, or when he falls after being punched). Darabont acting style is remarkable, and makes you feel some charm and beauty in the story, places and people, but it is not a Stephen King story, so Darabont did the best that could have done for this script, (he could've rejected to do this film too).About the story The story is held in 1951, the golden age of Hollywood; and where a writer, Peter Appleton (Carrey) work for an important studio with a good a position, his girlfriend is a movie star and his life is well, until he is accused as communist. All his life throws apart in that moment, depressed he crashed his car and falls to a river, unconscious he appears in a small Town called Lawson, where his face is familiar to all, but in the accident he suffered amnesia, so he can't remember anything of his past; in this town, a movie theater called The Majestic exists and so the movie take this as its name.About the cast Carrey's acting is pretty normal, and didn't convinced me, Laurie Holden (Adele Stanton) acting is nothing remarkable, Martin Landau as Harry is great! putting a lot of soul in this character!; David Odgen (Doc Stanton) is the character that i liked most!,the acting is perfectly adjusted to the character; Jeffrey DeMunnn (Ernie Cole) still a little exaggerated, does a good acting too. I also liked the acting of Bob Balaban (great actor) and Hal Holbrook (as congressman).4/10!, after this i will keep watching Darabont's films but not Sloane scripts. "},{"Title":"Never seemed to aspire beyond mediocre and moment of value are spread too thinly to sustain","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A Hollywood writer finds himself blacklisted as a communist when it transpires that a meeting he attended once in an attempt to score with a girl was actually a meeting of the Communist Party. Drinking to forget, Peter gets his wish when he crashes his car into a river and wakes up on a beach with no memory of who he is or what happened to him. The people of a small town take him in and he is identified by Harry Trimble as his son Luke, thought dead in the war. Harry takes in his son and returns him to their home &#150; a broken down cinema called The Majestic, where they start to renovate for reopening. Meanwhile, back in Hollywood, a manhunt is launched to find Peter, labelling him a communist on the run.I ignored the bad reviews and poor word of mouth about this film and decided to pick it up when it came onto television recently. It is not long into it that the collapse happens, although in fairness it is not like the early part offered much in the way of potential or inspiration. The small town setting, the lost memory narrative device, the warm sentiment, the homely characters and so on and so forth, it all smacks of easy cliché. I kept waiting for the beauty within the story or something insightful to occur but moment after sickly sweet moment dragged by but it never came. It didn't help me that the film is set within the world of the communist blacklisting &#150; a period where sentimentality and wholesome goodness are totally out of place against the reality of that period.The cast are mostly sucked down by the material. Carrey does the best he can and indeed turns in a commendable performance against the odds; such a shame that he doesn't have the material to work with. The support cast features loads of familiar faces but nobody to really step up and be memorable. Landau, Holbrook, Rifkin, Stiers, Campbell and others all provide solid support but few are able to make the film theirs despite it pretty much being there for the taking. Darabont's direction is typically classy and he frames a good shot but he is responsible for letting the thing regularly slide away into easy sentiment.Overall then a fairly dull and uninspiring film. I waited for it to do more than it did but it never seemed to aspire beyond mediocre while the warm, fuzzy sentiment contrasts very starkly with the reality of the blacklisting period &#150; the film does nothing but a disservice to the period. Clichéd and simplistic, it might please some audiences but it does too little of value, spread too thinly across an overly generous running time. "},{"Title":"Overly long try hard movie","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After a  clever opening scene the film unfortunately becomes mockery of itself.It lacks believability and substance to be taken seriously and is to pinned down with reality to be a  light hearted tale. The film is vexed with such a  catalogue of absurdities and hollywoodisms that it becomes easy to disconnect fairly early in the film, it however goes on and on and the protracted courtroom farce becomes a punishing grind.  I really felt let down by this film, the trailer looked so promising.3/10  "},{"Title":"Predictable, boring, and poor screen writing go together to make this one of the worst.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is very little good to be said about this terrible effort.  The scenes in Ferndale were nicely done, all the rest just smacked of over the top smarmy.  Sound track had its moments, too, but don't waste your time.  Even the writing was silly, immature, an embarrassment. "},{"Title":"Even amnesia can't knock that stupid smirk off Carrey's face.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This shoddy melodrama has nothing to offer.  A horrible screenplay coupled with a tired story bog down this two-and-a-half hour stinker.  The only thing worse than the dialogue is the heavy handed and rampant cliches. Themes of second chances, the magic of movies and small-town hospitality bludgeon the viewer endlessly.  If you're a fan of saccharine melodramas and bad screen writing (e.g She can do wonders with an egg.) check it out. Otherwise, pass over this dud.   "},{"Title":"Maybe I'm wrong..","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, maybe I missed a big part of this movie or something, but I cannot believe people are actually cheering to this! I'm sorry, but this movie was the biggest collection of weak romantic cliches I have ever seen. Jim Carrey is a good actor, he has given enough proof of that, but come on! You can literally tell what will happen in the next scene, when the fireworks will start and so on. I just sat through this movie, waiting for the moment it would turn out to be a parody..Sadly, that moment never came. But like I said, I could be wrong. "},{"Title":"Maudlin, stupid and utterly predictable","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Completely unbelievable premise, worthy of a Gilligan's Island episode. Sugary, sappy, overloud music. Not a single surprise to be found anywhere--you've already seen every part of this movie done better elsewhere.Tries every emotionally manipulative trick in the book--and fails. Would have been overlong at half the running time. The best part was the movie within a movie starring Bruce Campbell.My wife bailed out after 45 minutes (and is NOT letting me pick the next DVD), but I have this character defect where I have to finish what I've started. How on earth could Ebert give this three and half stars? I used to be able to trust him.Unless you think Mr. Smith Goes to Washington is the finest piece of cinematic art ever created, stay away from this complete waste of time. "}{"Title":"The US-propaganda machine at it's best..","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every minute of this movie is transpiring a single message  The only thing greater than the true American spirit, is to die for the American spirit. Amen.And although that may be true, it gets really tiring to have that message pondered into your head all through the movie. But a lot of people liked the movie, so this has to be one of the best examples of how Americans excel in the art of brainwashing themselves.Unfortunately a good comedian; Jim Carrey; seems inclined to follow the path of other comedians such as Robin Williams, who went from being incredibly talented and funny comedians to being pathetically melodramatic actors. Tom Hanks is a comedian who DID pull that off, but he probably realized it would take more than one acting class to do it. Let's hope Jim returns to his wonderful and physical humor, or that he seriously works on his ability to portray characters of more complexity, in other words to portray REAL people with REAL conflicts; internal aswell as external. "},{"Title":"Sappy and Sappier","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There was almost nothing about this movie that I liked, with one exception, which is the precise element that I believed beforehand might be problematic for me, that being Jim Carrey's performance.  Him I liked; I found the rest of the movie far too trite, pretentious and unbelievable.  The town portrayed in the movie is more Norman Rockwellian than Norman Rockwell could have painted!  The townsfolk are mostly one-dimensional, and what transpires between the main characters is contrived nonsense.  There are scenes that are overblown and, thereby unbelievable.  Even the threading in of the historically factual House un-American Activities Committee of the early 1950's is not compelling here, because it is not portrayed with believability -- Committee members as portrayed by Hal Holbrook and Bob Balaban (both of whom are good actors) are over-the-top mean.  Nor could the venerable Martin Landau and James Whitmore save this one, which is pitiful.Nope...the symbolism of the small town movie theater, for which this film is named, doesn't work because the town itself is way, way too perfect, with people who are way, way too goody-goody, and both the federal government and the Hollywood movie establishment are way, way too evil.  Sorry...life ain't like this, and it wasn't like this in the 1950's when the story takes place!      "},{"Title":"Ironically, the film misses because of the added Hollywood touches","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is another version of The Return of Martin Guerre, and after several remakes and transpositions of the story, I'd still point people back to the original as being superior. The main problem with this one is that it insists on a Hollywood-style bookending, complete with a voice over narration to establish the character in the first person (which is then dropped for the rest of the movie), and a faux-Capra-esque set speech at the end which is inexplicably cheered by the masses attending the House Unamerican Activities Committee hearing, not even to mention by the denizens of the idealized yet somehow oddly liberal small California town in which the middle part of the picture takes place.The real fatal flaw of the film, on top of the anti-McCarthyism preachiness, is that unlike Martin Guerre, it shows its hand from the the beginning. We, the audience, know that Peter is a fake and is not really returned-from-the-dead war hero Luke (no spoilers here, since the film gives it all away). So the creepiness and the mystery of the original schtick are all lost. And the movie really overdoes it with presenting the dead Luke as this great guy, without any baggage, and without any nuance. As such the dead Luke becomes a cartoon character, echoing the inexplicable character transformation of Peter in the end when he has his confrontation with HUAC over alleged past associations with known communists.It's a strange thing to say, but this movie could have been saved in the editing room without changing the script (again, ironic, since the screenwriter's willingness, or lack thereof, to change his script in order to get along is the bookend device of the movie). Had the director simply chosen to take the whole prologue, and just start the movie with Luke waking up mysteriously in the town of Lawson, (and then, if you must, have him recover his memory later and show the prologue instead as a flashback), it would have made a more convincing movie.Jim Carrey's ability to carry a dramatic role has always been underrated, and he does what he can with the material here, and nearly pulls it off. But it's just too fluffy a script for such a heavy subject -- the sacrifices of making war, and the principles to be defended by war -- no matter what the talents of the actor are.The whole middle part of the story about re-opening the Majestic theater, as a metaphor for renewal following a great loss, also was a bit of a missed opportunity. I appreciate how the filmmaker subtly chose two movies from 1951 that represent opposite ends of the reaction to the Hollywood witch hunt -- Streetcar Named Desire which was an outstanding film that Director Elia Kazan could only make because he was willing to name names, and The Day the Earth Stood Still which was scathing criticism of the paranoia of the era framed as a Science Fiction parable. But at the same time the idea of the movies as a way of living, vicariously, issues which we're not able to deal with directly because they're too painful or raw, is left undeveloped.I will note the especially good performance by Martin Landau as the long-lost-Luke's father, and a subtle performance by David Ogden Stiers as the town doctor and Luke's putative father-in-law. In the former, you see the pain of having lost an only son, and it's a very nuanced performance that shows how the desperate grief could lead one to a case of mistaken identity. In the latter, Stiers shows skepticism appropriate to the oddness situation that the rest of the townsfolk choose to ignore, but without recrimination when Peter is shown to be a fraud. And finally, the late great James Whitmore is quite good as the elderly resident who finds Luke. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have seen in a long time.","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The best part of this film was the cameos of Bruce Campbell acting his B-movie best, in the movie-inside-a-movie in this film.The worst part was .. well, everything else.The screenplay was schizophrenic. Is this a movie about the McCarthy era? Is this a movie about a man who loses his memory and falls in love? Is this a movie about a town that finally starts to heal from its lost boys in WWII? Is it a satire about the Hollywood system?No problem! Let's make it a movie about all of these things!Unfortunately, because this movie doesn't know what it wants to be, it fails to resolve in any meaningful way any of the plot threads.A friend and I just watched it and we were laughing ourselves silly - the film is so cliché, we predicted pretty much every important plot twist.Unintentionally funny, and at 2 and a half hours, unbearable agony to sit through.I read Roger Ebert's review, and Ebert fawns over Darabont here, saying Darabont makes films long enough to sink into and move around in., comparing the length of this film to The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile.Except those were good films, Roger.I guess Roger thinks any movie that bashes McCarthy is automatically a good movie. This is one of those cases where Ebert's political bias makes him overlook a film's fatal flaws.Dreck. Painful, interminable, dreck. "},{"Title":"The Truly Majestic","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me tell you, that for a long, long time, I desired to watch this movie, as a Jim Carrey fan, it was my obligation to do so, and I did the same with pleasure. Jim Carrey plays Peter Appleton, a man who works in show business, he was happy. But has the witch-hunt, communist-hunt that is, trails back to him, he is fired. After soaking he's sadness in alcohol, drives around, unfortunately, crashing and falling from a bridge. Pete, then wakes up in a beach, suffering from amnesia, where an old man, Stan Keller, finds him and takes him to his town. There, Pete is mistaken for Harry Trimble long lost son, and he starts a new life. It was able to make me laugh and fill my eyes with tears that eventually were spilled. I can't truly tell you more without spoiling the movie... but I can say, with all my heart, it was a truly Majestic film.I recommend it for anyone who enjoys a drama, and a heartfelt movie. Trust me, you won't regret it, I din't. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really liked this movie, because it was really relaxing and interesting at the same time.... The movie was really long, but I loved every minute of it! Jim Carrey did a great performance, and he proved, that he really is a great actor....and I'm 100% sure, that a lot of people gave this movie a lower mark, just because they aren't used to see Jim Carrey in a drama movie. The story is great and I think it has very topical subject. My mark was 8 because, I give 10 only for the movies, that are really perfect, and I think that this movie, just needs a little bit more to be that. But it's still an excellent movie! If you can't decide to see it or not, you definitely should! "},{"Title":"Beautiful cinematography","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let's start off with those we never see on screen yet their work we see all the time. A nomination for Best Period Makeup (Hollywood Makeup Artist and Hair Stylist Guild Awards) went to Bill Corso, Douglas Noe and Judy Mathai. Yet David Tattersall (cinematography), Karyn Wagner (Costume Design) and all those others who worked with passion on this movie deserved an Academy Award Nomination. This movie looks immaculate! Beautiful lighting and very tasteful set design. So bravo to the tech crew!Unfortunately director Frank Darabont is not as good in directing as he is in adapting screenplays. He makes beautiful shots -and that's about it. The movie never touches me -and it should as the story has the potential of a good drama.And what is it with the music? Composer Mark Isham thought perhaps he was writing an opera? There's a score under every scene! Most annoying indeed. The second an emotional scene starts, the violins start to play -as Darabont is afraid we don't understand what it's all about, so 'we' need music to make us feel what he should be doing in the first place directing . In all other scenes, the trumpets and full orchestra make overtime. Horrible.Right. Let's go to the cast Lauri Holden is a great actress and her talent (and patience) saved her in this movie. Very subtle and aware of the emotions of the scenes she portraits her role very well indeed. As always it's a joy to watch Martin Landau perform. He's aging very gracefully indeed and that same spirit is in his performance.I think Jim Carrey can't act. Period. A matter of taste, I know. I find it's all an outside-performance, he never ever shows any depth of character at all. Yet the movie looked so beautiful, I kept watching.Who's taking the challenge and will make a remake of this one? Pieter. "},{"Title":"OK drama","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" THE MAJESTIC is a slow-moving drama from Frank The Green Mile Darabont about a Hollywood hack (a largely subdued Jim Carrey) in the early 1950s who has a car accident, loses his memory, and ends up in a small town that has lost its way and is looking for someone to save it. For awhile, the amnesiac goes along with the thought that he may be one of the town's long lost sons from WWII, which perks things up considerably for these long-suffering folk. But nothing lasts forever. Martin Landau in one of his last screen roles plays the owner of a rundown movie theater who believes the amnesiac is his son back from the dead. It's easy to see the inspiration for this little drama the movies of Frank Capra. Unfortunately, Darabont is not Capra, and the movie drags badly. It could have used a quicker pace with livelier supporting players or been played out in Preston Sturges fashion, with plenty of irony, ribald humor and some slapstick. Recommended only for the dreary of heart. "},{"Title":"I thought this was a democracy.","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While most will argue that The Majestic was an opportunity for famed director Frank Darabont to pay homage to the infamous films of Frank Capra, this critic felt it was more an opportunity for Darabont to successfully cliché every recycled element in Hollywood cinema with the sole purpose of making us feel sympathetic to an unimaginative character. The Majestic tried too hard to keep the audience's attention. The Majestic tried to hard to give us a fictional town where realism was taken from the same page as Pleasantville. The Majestic attempted to give Jim Carrey the opportunity to win an Oscar, but as we learn from Jack Nicholson, one sometimes cannot just calm the face to fully embrace a dramatic role. My point is that The Majestic tried too hard, thus forcing the film to transform from a sentimental piece of nostalgia, to just sheer rubbish. While Darabont tried to capture the spirit of 1950s Hollywood in this film, what in fact occurred was simple one dimensional characters that we cared nothing for, events that took place that seemed misplaced from reality, and emotions that escaped honesty forcing us to sit through two plus hours of pure, 100% uncut, Darabont drivel.As I write this review, I find myself looking at what I thought this film was going to center around to suddenly realizing what Darabont actually gave me. To be utterly frank, this is not a film about a theater. Sure, one would assume from both the poster as well as the trailer that it may be about a man suffering from amnesia goes to a small town to rejuvenate an independent theater. As a man who dreams of similar ideas (sans the amnesia), I was ready to enjoy this feature. I was even willing to give Carrey a chance because he had proved to me over time that he could handle a meatier roll. Alas, when the final credits finally did run for this film, I did not see The Majestic as the film that was promised to me. I was expecting an American version of Cinema Paradiso, but instead found myself with more recycled Hollywood mumbo-jumbo that I could wave a stick at. The story was profoundly old, with Carrey doing nothing to re-establish his character. As I look back at his performance, he didn't grab anything by the horns, he didn't push his character to the limit, what he attempted to do was gain audience support by being less comic/zany and more human, but for me you could see right though his performance. In a year worth of decent performers making their mark in Hollywood, Carrey's performance of Peter Appleton was about as transparent as a ghost and will not remain relevant through the test of time.As I sit here and nitpick this film, I realize that The Majestic was not the best that Darabont has to offer. I would argue that The Shawshank Redemption was a pure moment of cinematic intelligence, and that perhaps when Darabont joins forces with Stephen King, the work is pure film magic, but when it comes to creating other work, it just seems to fall into the pan of lest resistance. My major issue with this film was the surfacing of smaller issues like Carrey's nonchalant performance, the ridiculous nature of the town of Lawson (and the cliché characters that seemed to inhabit the streets), and the over-played ending speech which seemed like a cut-and-paste of nearly ever other courtroom drama ever produced. It just felt uncreative from beginning to end. There were hardly any surprises or moments that had you gripping your seat with anticipation. Darabont played it safe, but the final result ended up being a jumbled mess of already used clichés. I wish I could list them all for you, but as a man who has seen his fair share of movies, I could count the beats with my eyes closed in this film. I knew when he was going to crash, I knew there was going to be a love interest, I knew Carrey would be faced with emotion, and I knew that eventually he would have to defend himself to everyone that we found our eyes surrounding. I knew these events were going to happen, and I am sure that anyone that has seen more than two films in their lifetime would see the same. Creativity, imagination, and energy are three core elements needed to make a film go from average to cult-remembering &#133; but The Majestic had none of these traits, so it falls into the wayside of being found in a dollar bin within the year.As I read my lines for this review, a name seems to resonate deeply within these words that utterly describe why this feature failed. The acting was laughable and the story was as generic as Grade-A cheese, and while others may blame Carrey or the writer for such errors, this critic blames Frank Darabont. I see that he was trying to redefine an era of cinema, but why, as a man who loves movies from the 1940s, is this film so terrible to view? I do not believe that Darabont was able to capture the raw nature of the period. I don't believe that Mayberry is on every corner and that every film made in the 50s represented this fake life. He over dramatized the smaller events while completely missing his mark on the bigger moments. This film could have benefited from a small war scene, or possibly from a visitation from Luke himself near the end. I just needed something to spark my interest more than what was presented here. I felt cheated from this film because it gave up midway through and did not push the limits of film-making. Mediocrity is what paid the Darabont bill in this feature.Overall, I wasn't impressed with this film in any way.Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Rent this movie and waste your money","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What made me rent this movie? The director, Frank Darabont, from The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile. And, of course, Jim Carrey, an actor as underrated as Stephen King sometimes is as a writer. What this movie aims to be? A combination of Cinema Paradiso / Martin Guerre / integrity / patriotism... What it actually is? A mess. Carrey seems as uninspired as I feel on a Monday morning. Martin Landau plays the same part as he always plays (Pinochio revisited). The script seems to have been delivered by the same 12-year-old that was responsible for all the X-files episodes. And, basically, I was bored to death by this movie.The first amendment, the witch hunt for communists at that time and yap-yap-yap, it all utterly failed to give this movie a decent bottom line. My wife actually fell asleep during it, and I can't blame her. My sense of duty and respect kept me awake, sadly. It amazes me, at times, how some projects actually are realized. When, if truth is told, they never really deserve to see the light of day. Any money that was spent in making this movie or made in exploiting it is 'tainted'. A big joke.I respect the other comments that praised the movie because it reflects the old days or its message, but, honestly, as a movie, this is one lousy product. "}{"Title":"A trite, saccharine disappointment!","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Carrey is a comic genius.  But this film wastes his enormous talent in a straight role that any competent actor could have done equally well.  The Majestic is a big, sloppy Valentine to small-town America, the magic of movies, the importance of integrity and patriotism, blah blah blah, zzzzz. I actually dozed off a couple of times while watching.(Note to Jim Carrey  you're a good actor and all, but could you please go back to the funny faces and slapstick...pretty please?) "},{"Title":"The Majestic 6/10","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Frank Darabont's third nostalgia piece into the past (after The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile) is The Majestic, a weird and non-fulfilling piece that has something to do about movies.Jim Carrey is Peter Appelton in the 1940's and 50's. He's a B-movie screenwriter, but is trying to graduate to real films. His latest film, however, is considered Communistic, and he's blacklisted. As he's driving on a very fake-looking bridge, he crashes and loses his memory. He winds up on a beach and is taken to a small, idyllic town, which lost many people to the war. It turns out that people think that he's Luke Trimble, a war hero, and Harry Trimble's (Martin Landau) son.I didn't believe for a minute that Peter was actually Luke and Harry's son. I think that there was supposed to be some sort of mystery of whether Peter was actually Luke or anyone, but you could probably guess. When Peter didn't know, I thought that he didn't really have chemistry with Harry. Most of the small-town sets were just façades, just like in westerns. When I took a studio tour of Universal Studios last summer, I noticed how similar everything was. I think we shouldn't have known whether Peter was Luke or if Luke was Peter, etc.Another thing that seemed fake was Adele's (Laurie Holden) hiccups that she got whenever she was nervous. They didn't really need to be there, because it's 150-minute runtime is hard enough to sit through, and they didn't really add any humor.The Majestic is the name of the movie theater in the town where Harry lives, and now that they think that Luke is back, they decide to open it. That's about the worse reason for naming a movie (besides Swimfan, of course). In fact, if that entire worthless subplot was taken out, the runtime could have been chopped by 45 minutes or so.Carrey proves that he's better at drama than at slapstick comedy yet again. After his terrific acting role in The Truman Show, he's one of the better points of The Majestic. Why he continues to do idiotic comedy, I don't know, when he could be doing much better in drama. Landau was also quite good, although I would have liked his role to be bigger. Another person's role that was small that I wanted larger was Amanda Detmer's role as Sandra, Peter's girlfriend. She's a good actress, and she should be better known. There was something about Laurie Holden. She just didn't do anything for me.As I look on my notes, I see I wrote `authentic if fakey music', which contradicts itself. I think I meant that the music seemed real for the time-period, but it seemed made just for that period and this movie. Understand what I mean? Well, neither do I. And, like all time-piece dramas, there has to be a climactic courtroom scene which concludes with the main character giving a monologue on where America went wrong, etc.It had some good drama, but it just wasn't enough for me. They could have reworked it and released it later to make it better, which they could do a lot of.My rating 6/10Rated PG for language and mild thematic elements. "},{"Title":"Yeah, I get that a lot.","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I rented this to see Bruce. I was disappointed to realizehow small his role was. Anyway, why wouldn't these people checkfor some kind of identifying marks on Luke/Peter? Maybe peoplewere more trusting back then, but I'd want to know whether it reallywas my son or former flame who had supposedly come back intomy life. The movie was pretty predictable; my friend and I keepguessing what was gonna happen with relative accuracy. I thinkthe concept of the movie may have been a bit deflated, too; herewe are watching a movie knowing that the main guy isn't who hesays he is. All we're doing is just waiting to see what triggers hismemory. It would have been more captivating if both the audienceand the characters didn't know from the start who he really was.Just start with him on the beach. Yeah, I know that would blow theway he realizes who he is and you'd then have to do some backstory to find out who he really was. But he could have just beenliving as Luke, the bad guys show up and haul him off, he has noidea what's going on, but he finally somehow manages toremember who he is. Oh, and more Bruce would have been agood thing. "},{"Title":"Not the best, not the worst","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie certainly isn't a classic, but if you've got a free afternoon, it's worth 2 1/2 hours of your time. Jim Carrey puts out a good effort in a role so outside his comfort zone, and I think he should be commended for his effort regardless of how well he played the part. "},{"Title":"Didn't Work For Me...","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    I liked the beginning of The Majestic, but once Carrey's character passes thirty minutes in that little town, I'm asleep. It should've been at least a half hour shorter, and should have had more drama, and not the cheap gimmick throw ins that we can see a mile away.  2/5 stars-nice try, Carrey, but Simon Birch was a better drama than this.                              JOHN  "},{"Title":"Over-sentimental but otherwise ok","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess it wasn't much of a surprise to anyone that a talented actor called Robin Williams moved from comedic roles to serious drama quite splendidly. Tom Hanks did the same thing and started immediately having Oscars. I had my doubts with Jim Carrey, though. After all, Williams and Hanks never did screwball comedies like Ace Ventura Pet detective and Liar, liar.But The Truman show and Man on the moon proofed that Carrey wasn't just a rubber-face after all, he was a highly gifted performer and very capable to play dramatic roles too. The Majestic continues his career outside the comedy. Unfortunately it's not as good as The Truman show and Man on the moon was.Biggest problem of this film is that it's over-sentimental and frustratingly sugary - way, way too corny. It's like someone's shouting at your ear and ordering Now this is a touching moment! Now it's time to shed tears! and you still don't feel a thing.I'm not blaming Carrey for this because he makes a very successful and stylish performance as Peter Appleton. It's just that there's only one Frank Capra and he died eleven years ago and no matter how good The Shawshank redemption and The Green mile was, Frank Darabont will never fill his shoes.Like I said The Majestic was still rather good and entertaining flick and Jimmy made a fine work in it. Personally I think Carrey may still get his Oscar. Not for many, many years but maybe someday when the academy has totally forgotten he ever was in Dumb and dumber. "},{"Title":"The best thing about this movie was the car.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was totally predictable.  It was entertaining til the last third. Carrey's speech to the HUAC was meaningless and unrealistic.  If there was a redeeming moment, it would be in the interplay between the Majestic employee's.  However, the work done to present 1951 to the audience was very well done, and some of the cinematography was beautiful.  However, the story line was syrupy and again, unbelievable. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's best performance ever.","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic is probably one of the most complex and satisfying romantic dramas to come along in years. It tells a very complex story that is fascinating from beginning to end, however unlikely it is in reality. Obviously, it's not likely that a man is going to stumble into a small town after an accident and be mistaken for someone else by that town's Mayor and all of its citizen's including the man's former fiancée and even his FATHER. No matter how vaguely you look at him, Peter Appleton does not look like Luke Trimble and he most certainly does not talk like Matt Damon.However, once you suspend disbelief enough to accept that this has happened, you get a great story about a man trying to figure things out, as he put it. Jim Carrey delivers a stunningly convincing performance as Peter Appleton, the struggling screenwriter whose career is threatened because he is suspected to be a communist at the height of the Red Scare. Needless to say, we grow to like Appleton enormously over the course of the movie even though he doesn't even know who he is and for a lot of the time we're not even really sure either. When we see that his career threatened to be destroyed by these groundless suspicions (not to mention when we see a lot of men that we hate from the moment we see them &#150; one of which keeps a fly swatter in his office within easy reach on his desk. How's THAT for symbolism?), it becomes clear that the movie has a lot to say about how the government handles things like this. But more important than that, the movie says a lot about the public, particularly the moviegoing public (yeah, that's you). The movie portrays the public as a group of people who are ready and willing to follow along with whatever they hear in the newspapers and condemn the movies written by a man who is suspected by the government to be a communist. Here's a completely innocent man whose life was about to be ruined because of the gullibility of the American public. I can't say I was entirely thrilled with a lot of the small details in the movie, such as the fact that Appleton was a screenwriter but was a bad speller (people who write for a living did not get to that position by being bad spellers &#150; professional writers who can't spell do not exist) or the fact that after the car crash the director felt the need to have Appleton smack his head on the cement pillar (was falling off the bridge and landing in the river upside down not enough?) or even the fact that he walked into the town of Lawson and looked `familiar' to everyone he saw. Could NO one place him? Oh, and remember what happened after the crash? Appleton washed up on the beach along with his CAR. What the hell?! Was it made of styrofoam? Besides that, the landscaping in the movie could use a little work. There was hardly a single backdrop in the entire film that didn't look fake, but the story is so good that it vastly overshadows things like this.Jim Carrey once again proves himself as an extremely capable actor, and that he is not just some slapstick comedian goofball. His reactions are perfect as people begin to realize who they think he is. This is a nearly perfect performance, it keeps you entertained from beginning to end, and never gives away too much to allow you to predict the ending. The only problem is that when the end does arrive it seems to be sort of a copout, a little TOO much of a happy ending, but not all that improbable either, especially when compared to the rest of the situations in the movie. The movie has a lot to say about the government and about America and about war (it looks WAY down on war) and leaves us feeling that no one in the movie was cheated even though Appleton's career was unfairly put into danger, a whole town was brought to their feet by someone who wasn't who they thought he was, and Luke Trimble was just as dead as the town of Lawson had been thinking that he was for 9 ½ years. The trial before the House Un-American Activities Committee was one of the best climactic scenes I've seen in a movie in years. Jim Carrey's performance is at it's peak here as he clearly shows that Appleton is trying to decide if he should go ahead and take the risk of standing up to the committee, and he does it so well that it makes you want to stand up and cheer for him. I'm an aspiring director, and this is exactly the kind of movie that I want to make. "},{"Title":"Two worthy plot lines deserve two movies","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful scenes, excellent ensemble cast and well acted. Attacks by the HUAC or small town America looking to be set free from the emotional scars left by WWII are both worthy plot lines and deserve two movies.  By combining them in one effort, The Majestic is a 2-½ hour marathon with a predictable ending. The comparisons to Capra miss  by the end, I really didn't care that much about the characters and certainly couldn't watch it again to see what I missed the first time.  Cut it in half, work through both plot lines separately and you may have two decent movies. "},{"Title":"just too munchy, too corný","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  it's hard to even figure out things to say about this movie. it doesn't exactly suck, but it isn't good either. it just is. drowns in it's own mediocreness.it's a story i've seen many times before and there's absolutely nothing surprising happening. *yawn* "}{"Title":"Capra-Corn for the 21st Century","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked Darabont's first two films, The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile, a lot, though I have problems with each. But I could tell that, if he slipped up, he would make a picture like The Majestic. It's like 1000 megatons of Capra-corn mixed with some half-assed politicizing. The film exists in two realms at the beginning and end of the film, the main character (Peter, played by Jim Carrey) is a Hollywood screenwriter. With only one screenplay under his belt, the House of Un-American Activities calls him in for trial, based on a meeting he attended when he was in college. He didn't even know the Bread Instead of Bullets Club was involved in Communist activities; he just went there to impress a girl. Angry at his misfortune, Peter goes for a drive and gets in an accident. He loses his memory and ends up in the small town of Laughton, California. This is the second realm of the movie, the small town Americana from Frank Capra's films. Laughton lost a large number of its younger male citizens to WWII, and Peter is mistaken for one of them who was lost in action, Luke. Luke's father (Martin Landau) is convinced from the outright that this is his son, and the rest of the town, praying for this kind of miracle, is able to easily convince itself that this amnesiac is their lost hero. The material in this part of the film is actually quite good, and could be the stuff to make a much better film. There's a lot of pathos that exists in the town of Laughton. The film could have been about the pain of loss and the worse pain of denial. The screenwriter and Darabont, though, want little more than to tug at our heart-strings. It tries so hard to be a weepy (Landau's scenes are pretty awful to watch), but it doesn't much succeed. Most of the stuff in Laughton is pretty good, and, like I said, it's good material. The real problem with the film is that the filmmakers are not able to connect those parts to the HUAC stuff. The Americana of Laughton is supposed to convince Peter that what HUAC is doing is wrong and unconstitutional (he reads aloud the First Amendment when he is called to testify). The whole time I was thinking, yeah, hindsight is 20/20. This is wishful thinking from the future. None of this works well. Jim Carrey's performance is just bad. He can not do dramatic roles, and he needs to learn this immediately if he wants to stay in the movies. The only performance that's really worth pointing out comes from Bob Balaban as one of the presiding senators in HUAC. He had two great performances last year, here and in Gosford Park. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Overblown schmaltz in the worst Hollywood tradition","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film begins promisingly enough generating an almost dreamlike quality of Hollywood in the 1950s as if we are viewing Peter Appleton's own hazey memories.Unfortunately, the pace begins to falter and the schmaltz begins in earnest in the scenes where Appleton begins his friendship with Adele played by Laurie Holden.  Both Carrey and Holden must bear some of the responsibility for the breakdown of the film at this point. Their acting lacks sublety and depth and they play their emotions far too close to the surface with the end result being that the emotions seem shallow and the performances contrived. Perhaps knowing this, the director has tried to make the photography and annoyingly ever-present schmaltzy music tell the audience what we are expected to feel.  Cue tears,  Cue laughter.  You get the drift.With the emphasis in plot now shifting to The Majestic theatre itself the film almost saves itself.  But no, whoever was driving this production didn't realise what a gem they might have had and instead decides to spend the last third of the film cramming in as many cliched Hollywood endings as time and budget would allow.  Theres' not just one cliche ending, there are about five!!  If this was a parody it would be a winner, but unfortunately the film-makers were deadly serious.  By the time Carrey has gone from blubbering tears, to eye-popping joy before ripping off Jimmy Stewart's performance in Mr Smith Goes to Washington, myself and the rest of the poor tortured audience had had enough.  I could barely contain my laughter as we were then subjected to marching band fanfares, cheering crowds and then the gooiest of saccharine camera pans across the happy family photo album. Blerrch!  Most audience members had the good sense to charge out and head straight for the bathroom before having to read a list of those responsibile.  Unfortunately this is the kind of no-brainer masquerading as something more meaningful that wins gold statuettes.  Carrey isn't the only one needing lessons in subtlety. "},{"Title":"Mostly a bunch of crap","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is mostly a bunch of crap, and I understand why it's not shown in theaters here in Sweden. It's one of the most synthetic movies I've ever seen. It really made me feel sick.All the time I was waiting for something intelligent to happen, a twist that would change the movie around. I hoped that this movie had something clever to say, and that this totally unrealistic plastic little world was created as a joke or an illustration to something that would be revealed later.Nothing in this movie feels real, everything is a cliche the story, the lines, the environment, the set. Sadly, there are too many movies coming from Hollywood, that are exactly like this. What makes me upset this time is that Jim Carrey, who I respect very much, is in it.Americans dont you ever get tired of watching this kind of crap? This is a movie painted with plastic colors and the biggest brushes I've ever seen, and hence it's intended for stupid people, that cant see nuances. Aren't you tired of being regarded as morons?What point has this movie? Is it that you feel good watching someone stand up for the right thing? I guess this is a feel good movie. But how far from the real world can Hollywood take a feel good type of movie? For people to relate, isn't the movie supposed to strike some resemblance of the real world?The most interesting question is Why would an intelligent person like Jim Carry want to be in a movie like this?  "},{"Title":"It's 1952 and a second rate, amnesic, Hollywood script writer stumbles into small town America where's he's mistaken for a war hero. Very slow and old fashioned. 1 Fly Out Of Five","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Majestic is pretty slow. You might find yourself wondering about your shopping, musing on whether you've got enough dried food for the dog. And that's when the film is at its most frantic! The Majestic is a try hard bore masquerading as serious cinema; small time America on a wholesome red carpet.Jim Carrey in spite of being most known for his slapstick comedy routines in The Ace Ventura films has  slipped predominantly towards dramatic rolls. He can be good at them. The sometimes surreal films Cable Guy, The Truman Show and Man On The Moon were dramas with a strange twist, as befits an actor who's always been a little off key at his best. Comedy is after all the drama of the ridiculous.The Majestic is anything but comedic however with Carrey playing it dead straight  in what's unfortunately an out dated, Capraesque, I love small town America, homily. Carrey plays Peter who's written a third rate film in early 1950's America. He gets accused of being a communist, takes a knock on the head and wakes up with amnesia in Lawson, a village imbued with old timers who lost a lot of sons in WW2. One of the old men, Harry Trimble (Martin Landau), claims Peter is his long lost son Luke, who was lost in action for nearly ten years ago. There's a strong physical resemblance.Callow Hollywood man Peter/Luke is lovingly adopted by the good citizens of Lawson and helps reopen The Majestic, the local theatre, which was run by Harry years before. This gives the citizens the opportunity to laud the character of American cinema. Luke/Peter also inherits Luke's old girlfriend Adele (Laurie Holden).In tried (tired) and true Frank Capra fashion the Feds are closing in and of course the amnesia will eventually lift. The last act of the film has Peter defending the rights of good Americans to have freedom of speech.What defeats The Majestic is its pace, and I'd imagine that a slow development of the plot was deliberately chosen by director Frank Darabont (The Shawshank Redemption, The Green Mile). The Majestic certainly has the feel of countless 1950's homilies to the American way which must have been the intention.But we've moved on surely from this sort of stuff, even if some Americans, feeling under threat in recent times, might find this subject matter comforting. The Majestic did however give me time to mentally sort out my shopping list.One Hungry Dog Fly Out Of Five  "},{"Title":"Sappy, predictable, yet endearing.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Minor spoilersMaybe it was because of my own personal fantasy of going back to my hometown and reopening the movie house, which fell into desuetude so many years ago.  Maybe because childhood memories, like so many ghosts, still haunt that main street theater for me.  That's probably why I was able to enjoy this pseudo Capra melodrama.  Possibly, that is why I was able to find it endearing and overlook its many foibles; the main two being the obvious questions raised by an entire town of folks accepting a familiar face so easily (ala Sommersby) and the fortuitous set of events that create the mistaken identity in the first place.  Best just to suspend disbelief, munch some popcorn and enjoy the insouciance of small town America (that never really existed in this pristine condition anyway).I could have done without the Un-American Activities, angle and just made it something else he was running from.  As it stands it borders on the type of agitprop that probably engendered such fanatical comities in the first place.  "},{"Title":"disappointing -- coulda been a contender","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I was disappointed, I wish more people would see it than I imagine actually will.Much of Carrey's acting felt forced, hollow & disingenuous to me despite what others have claimed, while the other actors were absolutely terrific and believable, especially Holden & Landau. Really liked the concept, but the historical lessons and ending were muddled/muddied -- the EXTREMELY IMPORTANT and totally RELEVANT TODAY political message was thus diluted and finally, any sense of emotional satisfaction felt superficial and hollow. "},{"Title":"Way too predictable","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie because of my admiration for both The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile, but came out extremely disappointed. I don't remember the last time it took so much effort to sit through a movie. The movie, as far as I'm concerned, offered nothing new, nothing fresh. Every plot development was predictable and the only guessing the movie makes you do is whether Carey's character is or isn't Luke.A lot has been said about Carey's performance, and to be honest, I didn't see it as Oscar worthy. He is fine, if somewhat cheesy, in the part, but if he didn't get nominated for The Thruman Show, he shouldn't get it for this one. It was Martin Landau who stole the show. He is the reason why I am writing this. His performance as Luke's father was enchanting. I enjoy good performances, and his portrayal of a father who rediscovers the meaning of life over the reappearance of a long lost son is captivating and real. He SHOULD get a best supporting actor nomination.Overall, the movie is just too slow, too predictable, too corny. Wait for it on video.  "},{"Title":"CAPRA-CORNY","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" THE MAJESTIC (2001) **1/2 Capraesque story about a rising screenwriter (Carrey) circa 1951 who finds himself the victim of McCarthyism and after an accident winds up in a Norman Rockwell hamlet that adopts him as a local boy who served in WWII.   A tad too moist and overwrought in getting its message across (standing up for what you believe in, namely yourself).  (Dir Frank Darabont)  "},{"Title":"Best drama I've ever seen","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, I started watching this movie in TNT started for about 10 minutes... I was about to turn off the TV but something caught my attention, there are no clichés on this movie and the acting was awesome.So I kept on watching and found the greatest drama.The story is about a movie writer that is accused of being a communist back in the 20's and has an accident in which he loses his memory.Then he funds himself in a town where he is very similar to a young hero of war who passed away 9 years before.As I said, to watch this movie is a MUST. Jim Carrey shows that he can be also a great drama actor, and the other characters are good as well.Hope you enjoy it as I did. "},{"Title":"Bad writing kills what could have been a fine film","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie several times and enjoyed it for its pure entertainment. Mostly sub-par writing, but a magnificent cast. I adore Martin Landau, and Jim Carrey is quite good as the protagonist. Early in his comedy/acting career, I thought that Carrey would be a failure in any venue. But, as he has in many of his films, he shines here, despite some flaws (i.e., his sincerity seems contrived during crucial points in the story). Carrey has the potential to be brilliant in serious movies, if someone would finally give him a legitimate script and direct him properly.I am upset by a few things that appear plagiarized, such as Luke's letter home (as someone pointed out, very close to Ashokan Farewell from Ken Burns' The Civil War), and the fact that anyone who has seen The Front (1976) knows well it was from that film from which writer Michael Sloane probably borrowed portions of the dramatic ending. This could have been a great movie, but all the effort that went into the wonderful performances and beautiful cinematography is ruined by a rotten script and submerged in a sea of syrupy, often stupid dialogue. What a shame. "}{"Title":"Overly sentimental and terribly slow","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a lover of Capra movies.  With those in the background this one is less credible and less to the point.  It is painfully long and, unlike in the Capra films where the sentiment seems appropriate, here it just seems to be laid on with a trowel.  Moreover, for 2001, the amnesia cliche is tired, especially when it switches on and off without other health complications.  And the misidentification of the Carey character, supposedly driven by wishful thinking that extends to social hysteria, is not developed enough at the beginning to help the audience over the hump. "},{"Title":"good until it becomes bad Capra","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  interesting mix of two genres. On the one hand, it's a low-key and well-done study of loss and yearning in a small town. I found this part compelling. But then about 2/3 of the way through, it turns into a bad Frank Capra movie, complete with a laughably simplistic Heroic Triumph. If you want a much better movie about HUAC and the Red Scare, see The Front "},{"Title":"What Happened to Ace Ventura? Or The Mask?","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When was it that Jim Carrey decided he needed to be taken seriously as an actor?Truman Show was annoying, Man On The Moon was painful, and this movie was extremely tedious and high-handed.I like Jim Carrey, and I keep hoping that he will turn out something that is at least going to make me laugh.  In The Majestic, Jim Carrey is Stanley Ipkiss of The Mask, without any of the levity he's just a really nice, normal guy with no serious ideological bent who is just trying to get by...until something really REMARKABLE happens, he lucks into the girl of his dreams and achieves self-actualization.It's pretty standard schlock, with one particularly annoying detail another rant about how UN-AMERICAN Joseph McCarthy and the Committee on Un-American Activities really were.  Oh, the irony of it all.Alright, already!  We get it.  We all had to read The Crucible in high school (and if you didn't, you should).  We all know how much Hollywood suffered at the hand of over-zealous politicians...and how ridiculous it was that accusations were even leveled in the first place.  Of course, what no one in Hollywood seems to want to acknowledge is that many of them were members of the Communist party...and many of them probably still are.  Seriously, folks!  If you want to rail against Joseph McCarthy and his antics, fine.  But at least have the good grace to admit that you really WERE Communists.I really wanted to like this movie, but I couldn't.Purely marginal fare. "},{"Title":"Please put on your rose-coloured glasses","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mention Frank Darabont and I think of one of my favourite movies, The Shawshank Redemption.  However, The Majestic is not one of them.  To truly enjoy this film, please use the rose-coloured glasses that the usher gave you on the way in.The Majestic lacks Stephen King's magic touch, perhaps a fellow viewer was correct when they said Frank Darabont can only direct Stephen King screenplays.  The great thing about King is that he loves small town 1950s America, but he always includes touches of realism in his movies. The Majestic seems to be a poor man's version of Shawshank, of small town life.  Both explore a mainly white community in the post-war years, but the Shawshank wasn't corny, shamelessly nostalgic, or rah-rah American like the Majestic is.The characters are cut-out cliches and I kept waiting and hoping for a character with substance to come along.  From the good-hearted waitress to the returned soldier with the chip on his shoulder, this film had me gagging with its saccharine-like sweetness.  Was life really like that in the 1950s?  I doubt it.  The people in the front row of the cinema guffawed at the predictable and ridiculously sentimental scenes at the end.The good things about this movie  the sets, music, actors and acting, (some notable stars including the NBC president and suitor of Elaine from Seinfeld - and M*A*S*H - Major Winchester, David Ogden Stiers) plus, of course, Jim Carrey.  In sum, The Majestic is a disappointing film, and Pleasantville it ain't. "},{"Title":"A banal, pathetic cop-out","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How stunningly annoying is this film? Simple - it's one of the great teases of the time. It starts well with some nice directing and clever work as our hero gets drunk and leaves Hollywood with the threat of a court subpoena over his head to appear before the McCarthy hearings.And then it moves to a small town where our hero - now an amnesiac - is feted as the long-lost son of the community, home from the war nine years after it ended.During this time we as an audience are kept guessing. Is he really the son of the local cinema owner? Is it an elaborate hoax? Or is it just a wild coincidence.And then towards the end of the film we are told the truth. And then, presumably as a cheap and dumbed-down reaction to the Bush administration's war on terror and homeland security clampdown, our hero suddenly appears before the hearing and gives one of the most awful, banal, pathetic, manipulative, cringe-making, immature, naive, trite, pandering, oleaginous, saccharin, childish and vomit-inducing feel-good speeches of all time defending America's right to free speech and apple pie and all that.An utter cop out at which point I switched off and went to bed. "},{"Title":"Carrey on for an eternity","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Farmer Darabont grows his particular strain of corn very slowly in bullsh*t. Because it tastes just like any other corn, he pours plenty of syrup on it and boxes it in a pretty package. But the delivery takes so long that everyone's starved by the time it arrives.The Majestic is a buttock-numbing experience full of cliche and coincidence so ridiculous that even the least cynical viewer will it find hard to swallow. It also succeeds in the almost impossible task of stripping Jim Carrey of humour and energy.It starts out like a poor man's Return Of Martin Guerre (or Sommersby to all you remake fans) and plods along to an utterly predictable ending (climax is too active a word) reminiscent of an even poorer man's Mr Smith Goes To Washington. Feeble. "},{"Title":"Aggressively Created Memory","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There's a standard film school course in self-referential and reflexive writing that's been cooking for about a decade now and we are now suffering the results. Bad screenwriters (the vast majority) mine this playbook. Here the whole kitchen sink is thrown in we have the writing of movies (`The Player'), their display (`Cinema Paradiso'), the invented memory of individual and community, the `telling' of some film people on others, even the defining text of the whole mess in a letter read by its dead author.Its all tossed together here in a fine mess, where no element has any magic.Along for the ride is the intrepid Jim Carrey. I don't think he's got the talent for this sort of thing, but he's smart enough to know what it is and seek out these projects. That's why he did the reflexive `Truman Show,' and the even more highly folded `Man in the Moon.' (Kaufmann wasn't funny, but it was funny that he wasn't.) Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"6.8???","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think I can safely say that this movie is one of the worst I have ever seen. I had expected a lot more from Carrey, since he usually is capable of lifting a rather dull movie to a new level by means of unexpected turns or lines. However, I was deeply disappointed to find out that this movie is really nothing more than just an extremely good try to put as many cliche s as one can in a movie. And that with the man who made masterpieces of originality like The Cable Guy or Truman Show. Throughout the movie I got more and more irritated by the eversmiling faces of the townspeople and the fact that I could not only tell what would happen next, but also exactly how, with what camera-angle and which background. Except for counting cliche s, I have spend the entire duration of the movie waiting for the typical Jim Carrey joke that would reveal something that would change the whole movie, showing the viewer that it was not meant as a serious attempt to a bad movie. there were even times when I wondered whether I was watching a serious movie, or a comical. I don´t know what came into everyone in Hollywood when they let this script pass or into Carrey when he accepted this part. Please, can someone tell me that I am mistaken and that I have not understood the actual point of this movie? Please, can someone tell me it is not as terrible as it seems? "},{"Title":"good until it becomes bad Capra","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  interesting mix of two genres. On the one hand, it's a low-key and well-done study of loss and yearning in a small town. I found this part compelling. But then about 2/3 of the way through, it turns into a bad Frank Capra movie, complete with a laughably simplistic Heroic Triumph. If you want a much better movie about HUAC and the Red Scare, see The Front "},{"Title":"Australia","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was mostly slow and boring and didn't make me feel happy, just rather bored.  It felt drawn-out and towards the end there were several moments when it felt like it was going to end, but it didn't.Apparently the cliches are deliberate to make it seem like those old, happy, light-as-air movies, but they got to me a bit - the golden glow of the sunset with the gently rolling waves was a bit too much.  And the music (other than the great jazz) sometimes seemed strained and intrusive.I didn't have a problem with Jim Carrey, he was fine.  But the movie was way too long, and that scene near the end where Appleton stands up for himself and declares how great the American constitution made me cringe. "}{"Title":"So flat, so so flat...","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  So much potential, and such a hard fall from all that is quality - A bad Quantum leap episode stretched into a two and a half hour piece of watch watching potential.  I hate it for James, cause he is really a good actor. It is predictable, sappy pieces like The Majestic that make him look worse than he could be.  Sad thing really, cause it had POTENTial with a capital potent.  Could be great, but instead it's a movie that confuses itself.  Two worlds brought together in a very uninspired and overlapping way that wreaks of last minute fidgety production.  Mr Carrey plays a writer that gets into an accident, loses his memory, and is picked up by a town for someone he's not.  But he fails to realize this until later.  I ruin nothing by saying this, and that is one of the problems.  The predictable and shallow story leaves you waiting and waiting for something monumental - at least a trendy twist or the death of some body.  After Carrey enters this new life, there is a good 45 minutes before there is a glimpse of what is going on his real commie life.  Oooookay, so he's not dreaming, and it just get's more confused from there.  The end just trails on whipping over every cliche in the book from the risky, but right decision, to that damn kiss.  Nothing is original in this movie - instead we wait and wait, sitting through Jimmy's gazes and (non)development which shoves this motion picture off the cliff of lameness and into nothing.  Those who truly praise The Majestic, that's fine, you just prefer a picture that doesn't challenge you.  This I understand, but if you are a movie lover, you may find this one to be one of the thinner ones this year.  Bruce Campbell is in it though.  A not-so-majestic overall 4.  Save your money. "},{"Title":"Excuses Excuses","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I bumped my head I am not a communist.Who cares, you are a boring character either way.This story is a weak attempt to bash the US government for thepost war red scare. Ok, bringing those writers before congresswas lame, but not as lame as this script.Boring, dull, who cares?But hey, Martin Landau is one good actor isn't he! "},{"Title":"A treacly mess.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A truly disappointing effort after Darabont's Shawshank and Green Mile, both of which I liked a lot. I guess Frank was practicing Going Slow on Mile, because he sure perfected it here. The Majestic is snail-paced, cloyingly sweet and predictable. But if you like Sweet (unalloyed with anything else) and adore Carrey, maybe this is for you.It has no edge The Red-baiting movie exec (Balaban) and FBI flunkies fail to provide much believable tension.The money guys booted it again. A good film starts with a good script, fellas This one didn't have it.Darabont should stick with Stephen King. Jim Carrey should pay someone to choose his vehicles more carefully. "},{"Title":"For Whom the Dog Tolled the Bell?","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At the start of the film there is a discussion of a new project script where after a cave-in on a coal mine some boy runs up the hill and rings the the bell and boss says Let's change the boy to the no-name dog, people love dogs, the dog escapes the cave-in, runs up the hill and rings the bell. To be honest, I'm sure the movie where the dog tolled the bell would be less idiotic than this one. Yes, I laughed plenty but not at passé and flat jokes of this flick but at its hollow and preposterous pathos. Well, I nearly fell on the floor with laughter when Adele returned to Luke his present to her - The United States Constitution, I just want to make a suggestion let all those who enjoyed this movie give their beloved The United States Constitution as a gift on their next birthday, let the happiness multiply. I suppose this feature is a desecration of the memory for those who were hounded and dogged in that disgraceful witch hunt. This movie turns the great American tragedy into a cheap buffoonery. So the dog tolled the bell for Frank Darabont, his magnificent Shawshank Redemption and an elementary common sense. "},{"Title":"A Monsterpiece!","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After watching the opening scenes of The Majestic I expected an interesting and witty movie about a Hollywood screenwriter's struggle to the top. However, Peter Appleton (played by Jim Carrey in 'serious mode') soon drives his car off a bridge and ends up with a severe case of amnesia in a town called Lawson. Then the horror begins...Everybody in Lawson has lost a son or two in the Second World War, but that surely doesn't keep them from being dreadfully nice to one another. The same goes for Harry Trimble, played by Martin 'Big Fish Mouth' Landau. Peter unfortunately happens to be an exact double of Trimble's lost boy Luke and is mistaken for him. The whole of Lawson is so grateful for the miracle of Luke's return that they can't stop smiling and hugging and following Peter all over the place. Even when he is having a private conversation with Luke's old girlfriend Adele, they are sneaking up on them from behind. Not in an evil way, of course. It's just that they are so endearingly curious and deeply touched by their love renewed. Ah! Instead of inviting us to care for the characters, director Frank Darabont decided to command us to care by forcing every single emotion down our throats. When I see the old Trimble cry pathetically over a photograph of his lost son, I don't like him for it. I hate him for it. And that greasy tell-tale score by Mark Isham doesn't help much, to say the least.There is even a black man in this movie, whose only wish is for a pocket watch, so that he can always start working on time. Now isn't that moving? My goodness, he might as well be shouting 'Like me! Like me!' at the camera to win our sympathy.But wait. It gets worse. This movie even tries to make a political statement against McCarthyism by means of a classic courtroom showdown. You know, with the judge repeating 'Silence!' and 'You are out of order!', while Carrey delivers a monologue packed with such profound emotion and justice it nearly made me puke. Yes, it was that strong, ladies and gentlemen. The moment when he flashes that medal of honor at the stupefied judge must be seen to be believed. A Monsterpiece! "},{"Title":"Long story short it's incredibly dull","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Carrey and Darabont but this film was just painfully dull, slow-paced and ultimately uninvolving.Communism?  Frank Capra homages?  Who cares!  This is 2004!  There's just no story here.  In screenwriting they teach you that if you're not hooked by a script after the first ten pages or so, you never will be, and that's what happens with The Majestic for me.I'm sure Darabont was trying to make an old-fashioned movie in the vein of Capra that moved at its own pace, but he somehow forgot about the story (something he ironically keeps saying is dead in Hollywood).  He's a great director, but he should have thrown this script in the bin.  Maybe it's time to adapt another Stephen King story, which has served him so well in the past.  Doh! "},{"Title":"The King rules... but not in this movie","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie because I wanted to see what Jim Carrey would do in a serious part. Unfortunately the character he is playing has so little character that it is impossible to say. Due to the script, not Carrey. When an actor gives his all there is a very thin line between brilliance and embarrassing failure. Jim Carrey never stops crossing back and forth over that line in this movie.The script does not explore its themes or the feelings they provoke at all, it is unbearably sentimental and the characters have no personality. I started getting a little interested, when the main character arrived in Lawson and you didn't know whether he was faking amnesia or not - but then that question was answered in a very obvious way and I gave up.I am one of those idiots who cannot leave Jim Carrey as he is, but thinks he should do something else with his talent. Man on the Moon is my favorite Jim Carrey-film and I think it says a lot about the Academy that they hardly noticed his performance.But a script like this one does not fit Jim Carrey's talent. I hope he will keep looking for a genre that does him justice. "},{"Title":"The Phoney -historical revisionism and cynical manipulation.","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an example of historical revisionism at its worst. It has Jim Carrey, who has moved from being offensively irritating as Ace Ventura to being equally irritating in his good ol' boy straight roles, playing the innocent victim of a HUAC witch hunt at the height of the McCarthyite hysteria in the US. Lacking the courage of its convictions (and undoubtedly with an eye to increased box office sales) Carrey's character is shown to have been unfairly harassed because instead of being a communist he was simply a 'horny young man' following a lustful trail to a meeting at which he was unaware of the political content. Even today it seems that we can't have a hero in an American movie who is shown to have had any hint of a communist link in their past. The inhabitants of the town of Lawson where Carrey finds himself after his accident are all the sorts of wonderful people that we are supposed to believe are the real spirit of America. Supporters of the constitution one and all. Defenders of liberty and free speech. Funnily enough they seem to have been rather short on the ground during the McCarthy era and this is at the heart of the historical revisionism that I find most offensive in this movie. For me the biggest joke though (and presumably unintentional) are the scenes where Carrey as the scriptwriter has to endure meetings where his scripts are radically altered by greedy studio executives to make them more marketable. There won't be dry eye in the house says one of them after suggesting a cynically saccharine manipulation of one of the scripts. The irony of all this is that the script for this movie seems to have been written by just such a committee. "},{"Title":"Fair Jim Carrey vehicle which makes an OK viewing","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" THE MAJESTIC, in my opinion, is a fair Jim Carrey vehicle which makes an OK viewing. I first saw this film on a flight from our nation's capital to San Francisco in June 2002. My destination was San Diego, though. If you ask me, things got really weird after Peter (Jim Carrey) became an amnesiac. However, when a romance developed between him and Adele (Laurie Holden), I was deeply moved. It's hard for me to explain the whole reason. Part of it is because I am a hopeless romantic. Before I wrap this up, I just want to say that this film could have been better. Now, in conclusion, I'm sure you'll enjoy this film if you're a die-hard Jim Carrey fan. "},{"Title":"Too long and sappy, but good ending and message","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that if they did some serious editing of this movie, it could turn out all right, but currently it is way too long, and the emotion was so forced that I didn't like it.But the ending was good, and I liked the message. "}{"Title":"kinda like watching paint dry","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really wanted to enjoy this movie, really I did. But then I had to watch it. It is a beautiful looking movie, well acted, but just plain boring. I loved the idea, but this this adaptation didn't work. Some movies take me along while the tale is told, but The Majestic just put me to sleep. In fact I had to try 3 times to finish it. I think that people over 45 will enjoy this movie, at least they can revel in the period.  "},{"Title":"As flat as they come","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  May be some spoilersWhen I think about films, they usually make me feel something.  There is a certain kinetic feeling when you see a film, one way or another.  You can see a picture and walk out of it and it will stay with you for days after you leave the theater.  It's brilliance keeps you talking about it and you can't recommend it enough to those that ask your opinion about the latest film you have seen.  Then there is the opposite end of the spectrum, and that is when you know about half-way through the film that you are going to absolutely detest what is on screen.  This is the type of picture that has you checking your watch and shifting in your seat every five minutes.  Unfortunately, this has been what we have been tacitly subjected to over the last few years.  The years 2000 and 2001 have not been years Hollywood can be proud of.  It is quite disturbing that each and every year that passes, Hollywood claims it made more than the previous year.  The bucks keep rolling in which means that the public is paying for the mundane offerings that film makers are marketing for us.  It's strange though, as I said, a film will usually make you feel something one way or another.  And then there is the film The Majestic.  This is a film that made me feel... well it kept me.... okay it was just so.....it was just so..... ah hell, let's be honest, it was just so nebulous and full of the blahs.  I don't know how else to put it.  The Majestic just made me feel nothing.  Nothing at all.  I didn't enjoy the film nor was I particularly angered with it.  I wasn't enlightened by it but it tried its damndest to put me to sleep.  It is just a film that seems to prod along until the end and then it ends.  There is no big revelation, there is no big secret, there is really nothing to get excited about in any way.  I am not sure what the producers of this film were thinking when they green lighted it, but they made a mistake.This is a story about a screenwriter who is blacklisted in Hollywood and decides to take a drive and crashes into the water and turns up in a town with no memory of who he is.  Here he of course meets the fluffy old town folk that welcome him with open arms and do their best to convince him that he is some long lost dead soldier who must have developed amnesia for the last decade.  Here he meets his dad and old girlfriend and then he resurrects an old movie theater and then people find out that he is not really who they think he is and then he has to go back to Hollywood to testify and he becomes a man by telling the truth and not copping out and he makes all the fluffy townsfolk really really proud of him and then he goes back and the entire town is waiting for him and blah blah blah blah blah blah de blah de de de de blah de blah.  So what?  What does all of this mean?  What is the point of it all?  Other reviewers and critics will tell you that this film shows the golden age of movies and draw parallels with Carrey's character and the Majestic, the theater he is trying to refurnish.  I don't buy any of it.  This is a film that may as well be the 600th episode in a T.V show that has been around for 100 episodes too long.  It just doesn't mean anything.  The movie is like one big run on sentence.  Try and figure out what is going to happen three or four scenes later and I'll bet you nine times out of ten that you are right.  And guess how it ends.  Go on, don't be shy, I know it's tough now, but give it a shot.The Majestic is a lazy, fat ass dog, napping under a tree on a scorching summer day.  It doesn't move, it doesn't wake up and if you took a quick glance at it, you would wonder if it were really breathing or not.  I can't find the life in this film and all of it's self righteous diatribes it hits us with are really nothing but fluff.2 out of 10...... A disaster of a film.  Wait until it comes on TV one night and maybe, just maybe then you can give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Smarmy tearjerker&#133;but professionally made, of course.","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm one of those very few people who are actually convinced that there's a brilliant actor hidden behind the rubber face of Jim Carrey, so I was rather looking forward to finally see The Majestic. I prepared myself to witness a lot of sappy dialogues and dramatic sequences which are inevitable in Darabont's movies but he really has excelled himself here&#133;Boy, what a corny film! For two and a half straight hours, The Majestic desperately tries to bring tears to your eyes. All elements to make lonely housewives and hurt romanticists cry are present&#133; Carrey plays a Hollywood scriptwriter in the early 50's&#133;America is recovering from their WWII losses and the cowardly hunt for communism and other supposable threats to society is open. Peter Appleton (Jim Carrey) is suspected of being a communist and loses his job. He crashes his car and end up in a small, forsaken town&#133;suffering from amnesia! He gets mistaken for a lost son who returned from the war after all and suddenly, everything goes really easy&#133;Peter (alias Luke Trimble) re-opens the local movie theater with he father, he gets the most beautiful girl in town and they throw him parties!! Naturally, his memory slowly returns and a huge disappointment for the little community is inescapably.The story is so ordinary, the character so typical and the events so routine that you're actually wondering why you continue to look at times. This film is way too long (Darabont makes a point of stretching simple stories endlessly) and the obtained sentiment is just too fake for you to care. Especially the entire end-scene in court annoys&#133;. It seems to last forever and you can almost hear Darabont begging for you to cry with his film. The attempts to `touch' the audience are almost pathetic and destroy the good basic plot idea. When you ignore the smarmy script, there remain only a few things to admire like the decent acting performances by Jim Carrey, Martin Landau and the girl who plays the love-interest. I already forgot her name, but she previously starred in several episodes of the X-Files. And of course there's the scenery&#133;Darabont gives an adorable portrayal of the US in the early 50's with sublime decorations and multiple tributes to classic cinema.  The settings and locations are very realistic and breath an irresistible fifties atmosphere&#133;but, I hardly consider this a triumph because Darabont probably had a large budget to spend on this.    "},{"Title":"Contrived and self righteous.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like Pleasantville, this film creates a very unlikely situation in order to fit into its holier than thou message. It is manipulative and does not truly capture the spirit of its time. Jim Carrey's attempt to break into a normal role was a poor choice. "},{"Title":"Too Long","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the Majestic on Friday 12-21-01. Out of 10 at most it was a 4. This movie may have been good in my mind if it's pace was picked up. The movie was very slow. It was 2 hours and 30 minutes long and it could have been 1 hour and 30 minutes long. In my mind Jim Carrey should stick to comedy. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've seen in a long time","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim Carrey is a very funny guy, though he should never ever againdo drama. With no comedy in sight, I openly laughed at theridiculousness of this movie and his awful performance. I waswaiting for him to bust out laughing himself at the contrived messof this production and his helplessness to pull it off.  "}]