[{"Title":"Very funny film","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Two Can Play That Game is a great take on the battle of the sexes. Vivca A Fox is great in the lead role as Shantel. Anthony Anderson who is always good is great here as the comic relief and Morris Chestnut plays his standard pretty boy role. All in all this was a great film that I would recommend. "},{"Title":"Give this movie a break and a laugh.","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just wanted to say that I think that a lot of viewers are really hard on this fun romp between African-American Professionals.  You see, if you don't like it, you probably can't relate to relationships, or African-Americans.  If you are African-American and you don't like it, well, all I can say is that you must be young.  Anyone over the age of 35, would probably enjoy this light-hearted matching of wits between Shante'(Vivica Fox) and Keith (Morris Chestnut).  The reason that age comes into view, is because growing up in the 60's, there were plenty of light-hearted romance comedies to enjoy.  With one exception.  You didn't see African-Americans in those movies.  In the 70's, people like Richard Pryor provided us with plenty of funny movies, along with Veteran's such as Bill Cosby and Sidney Poitier.  Romance comedies never quite made an impact within our community.  And the love stories that did make it, such as Melinda starring Richard Roundtree and Vonette McGee, were dubbed blaxploitation movies and not given the exposure that movies garner today.  I enjoy African-American films that are light-hearted, because the urban experience is often depicted as violent, drug-related, and unintelligent.  We have plenty of movies for our children to see that offer no intelligent plot, and continue to perpuate stereotypes that we have been trying to tear down forever. Seeing African-American professionals deal with some of the challenges of nurturing a relationship in the 2000's was a lot of fun.  That is, if you are looking for a little break from the shoot 'em up, drug-smoking, genre's. Women do have a tendency to expect certain things from men, and vice versa.  Any game can be taken too far, which is what the movie depicts.  No, it couldn't and should not have been an Academy Award Nominee by no stretch of the imagination, but it is highly entertaining and does have it's comedic moments.  When movies are being made with names like Dumb and Dumber, and How High?  I think I'll keep my viewing priorities straight and preference a movie like this over them.    "},{"Title":"play the game...its fun","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A smart and sassy ad exec, Shante ( Viveca Fox looking very hot ) wants to keep her man, Keith ( Morris Chestnut also looking pretty fine ) in check after he messes up by saying he is working late and ends up taking another woman to their restaurant for some drinks and dancing. What happens next is Shante's 10 day rules of putting you man in check. We're taken along for hilarious ride as Shante and Keith match wits to see who can get the upper hand. The movie depicts very honestly, and in a humorous way, the games men and women play with each other. Anthony Anderson is a riot as Keith's friend, Tony, who helps Keith battle the very sly Shante at her game. Shante's gal pals, Wendy Raquel Robinson, Mo'Nique, and Tamala Jones, are also pretty funny. Gabrielle Union makes a sexy turn as Shante's nemesis who is after Keith and isn't shy about it. This battle of the sexes romp is hilarious and witty and should just be enjoyed for what it is; a real good time. A great friends get together flick. "},{"Title":"silly fun","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are just wayyy too many cliches to take this movie seriously, but if you're up for a few laughs, you could do worse than to watch this romp.This film may perhaps be Anthony Anderson's coming-out movie, because he not just steals the show, he dominates! After playing the bumbling type in both Kingdom Come and Romeo Must Die, here in TCPTG he is the driving force. (Granted, I haven't seen every film he's done, so he might have had other parts that demonstrated his talent; but note that after this movie he did Barbershop and appears lined up to appear in no less than 4 movies in 2003).And, a tip of the hat to Mo'Nique Imes-Jackson, she's a riot too.I must admit, I think the significance of The Cosby Show, depicting upwardly-mobile urban black professionals, has played itself out so that we don't need to forcefeed images of rich black people (in this vein, the homey feel of Eddie Murphy's The Klumps as well as his unfortunately discontinued The PJs was ironically refreshing - I wish I could digress fully and explore this thought; if you want to follow up, email me).Anyway, there are some golden moments in this movie. The first-person narrative was almost irritating at the beginning, but if you can endure the first 10 minutes of it, it is developed nicely into a decent tool to set up some of the coming laughs.As a romantic comedy, I remember how much I enjoyed The Money Pit; my wife can't see what I see in that film. But, as an 80s comedy, it was both silly yet touching. And then there was the more mature Other People's Money, which had enough business tension that it was almost not a comedy, except for Danny DeVito. In other words, there are many ways in which to approach the romantic comedy, and as such, there's plenty of room for TCPTG, if you are willing to give it the same slack you might give any other romantic comedy (Sleepless in Seattle, You've Got Mail, etc., etc.,).You know, it sorta sounds like I'm apologizing for this film. In a way, I am, because the elements of it that the average person will notice and have difficult with are the same elements the average person is blind towards in other movies.Bottom line, for light-hearted fun, you won't be wasting your money to rent it. "},{"Title":"Above Par","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This would be standard middle-brow entertainment were it not for three factors that I'll discuss in a little bit.  The concept, that women can be as deft players of the field as men, is certainly not new to most.  It may be new to A level films, and it probably is new to director/producer Mark Brown, the creator of HOW TO BE A PLAYER.  But it is not a concept new to almost any B level direct-to-video thriller, anything on Cinemax after 11pm, or to any newspaper.  Women have almost always been better players (see Anna Nicole Smith, Leona Helmsley, that maid that married the Johnson & Johnson fortune, and almost all of the guests on either Jerry Springer, Jenny Jones, or Ricki Lake).  But, this movie does have an easy going pace and sound track that combine to make it as smooth as a ride in Shante's convertible Jaguar.  What makes the film stay slightly above average is the presence of the three lead thespians.  First of all, let it be said that Anthony Anderson does in fact walk away with this film.  He simply owns every second that he is on screen (including the out takes at the end).  His natural and easy manner combined with impeccable comic timing simply makes him the de facto owner of the material, the screen, and the film as a whole.  Next, Morris Chestnut, whether given a lot or a little (like here) to do simply comes off as likable.  And in the main role, few actresses - good looking or not - could carry off the part that Vivica A. Fox plays.  The film would not be believable were it not for this particular actresses commanding presence and astonishing good looks.  She, like her character, is someone who has worked her looks and her intelligence to get exactly what she wants out of life, and she is not afraid to show it.  So, if you go in not expecting too much, you will come out pleasantly surprised.  A 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"VIVICA SPARKLES!!!!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Come On People,  This movie was fun for me.   I'm not for girlie movies but Vivica Fox happens to be one of my favourite Black Actresses and she SHONE in this simple but classy role!For the brothers out there dissing her, don't you wish you were the one slamming your girlfriend on your desk during lunch.  She did what some smart women don't do, she planned and we(hate)her for being that smart.Hey the babe didn't want to lose and her boyfriend was beginning to cheat on her, when you've got it all like THAT!!  what more do you need?  like Shante says men are like dogs, you need to leash them and her boyfriend proves her right.Remember nice girls & boyz finish last.Shante went overboard in her planning but in real life, her boyfriend when they get back together would respect her for it!!  All of us guys like a woman who knows what she is doing and who can work around us so all we really have to is bring home the bacon.Well! Wake Up Y'all!!!This movies sizzles with excellent chemistry, laidback humor and on the spot comic delivery.Fox, Chestnut and Anthony Anderson deliver standout performances !!! Not Oscar worthy but classic and enduring.I'll be watching this movie 10 years from now and still having a swell time.7/10... "},{"Title":"Enjoyable...watchable...but hardly memorable.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie had the potential to do something great, but failed.  Vivica Fox was decent in her first starring role (was it a starring role?) as Shante.  She is a great actress who doesn't get great roles (like most black actresses) but she put accurate effort into the character.  The problem was that the movie relied too heavily on Shante's in-your-face-dialogue.  And the game itself was a bit too farfetched.  Of course women play games, but the lengths Shante went to just to teach Keith a lesson wasn't realistic.  And is it just me or was practically everybody from The Brothers in this movie? (Morris Chestnut, Tamala Jones, Gabrielle Union).  Good note - Monique was hilarious in her role as she should be.  I did like this movie, but it would be nice to see a black movie that doesn't always rely on humor and battle of the sexes-type themes.  What I would give to see a serious movie about African-Americans again.  Another Soul Food-esque film would be excellent. "},{"Title":"No pain, no gain.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In Two Can Play That Game, an upwardly mobile Afro-Am professional woman, Shante (Fox), lays out the rules for playing the mating game as she takes the audience step by step, talking to the camera, through her own foible fraught relationship one rule at a time. Meanwhile her befuddled boyfriend (Chestnut) gets his own dose of rules and countermeasures from a know-it-all best friend (Anderson). The 95% comedy in this lively little romp comes from the interaction of the pair of protagonists with their kookie friends. The 5% romance comes at the end when the flick finally gets real. Fun stuff which gracefully straddles the black/white divide and avoids ghetto, this flick will likely appeal most to females, particularly African-American females. (C+) "},{"Title":"Not too bad. A six.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film offers just a bit of insight to the relationship game.  This is not really anything new, but it's still entertaining and the acting worked for me.  So, don't run out of your way to see it, but if it's on, go ahead and you should enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Still Fun, Funny & Fabulous after all these years","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love pulling this movie out of my DVD archives & watching it when I'm feeling down about relationship issues or just need some good laughs. I laugh out loud every time! It actually has some valuable romantic relationship tips. I find myself referring some of Shante's advise or to a scene in the movie when considering what to do in a real life situation. However, always remember the morale of this story. There are so many scenes that almost anyone could relate to. I have adopted several of Shante's (Vivica F.) and Tracey's (Gabrielle U.) gestures. All of the actresses are beautiful and funny. Keith (Mmmorris C.) is fine & intense as could be & Anthony A & other actors are hilarious! I found it amazing how brilliantly the movie had a mix of down-to-earthiness, fantasy, comedy and romance. This cast had great chemistry, which really made it work. It's a classy, fun and hilarious (and under-rated) flick. I'm very glad I have it on DVD. "}{"Title":"Lighthearted fun","Date":"24 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't understand why everyone is hating on this movie because its not supposed to be taken so seriously. Im watching this movie for the second time and I thought hey! this movie is pretty good! Vivica Fox and Gabrielle Union are so beautiful and are very entertaining! I like how Vivica talks to the camera and i feel that is what makes it different from a lot of other romantic comedies and makes it more personal. I'ma give this movie a break and give it a 8/10 because its not meant to be a serious drama or anything. Some people just need to learn how to watch different types of movies and enjoy them, from Star Wars to Pulp Fiction to Finding Nemo and to something like this! ) "},{"Title":"If You Are Game For Fun . . .","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Independence Day actress Vivica A. Fox stars in the breezy, lightweight comedy Two Can Play That Game as a sexy but savvy senior advertising executive with a surefire ten-day strategy for manipulating errant boyfriends who step out on their women.This predictable but hilarious Anne Landers-like war-of-the-sexes situation comedy combines elements of Spike Lee's She's Gotta Have It (1986) and Forrest Whitaker's Waiting to Exhale (1995). As Shante Smith, Fox often turns to speak directly to the audience, breaking the fourth wall as it is called, to amuse us with insights in much the same way that Matthew Broderick did in John Hughes 1986 teen comedy Ferris Bueller's Day Off. Shante addresses the camera while her companions appear blithely oblivious to these artificial asides. Although the humor occasionally qualifies as raunchy, first-time director Mark Brown has penned a harmlessly entertaining emotional epic that should keep both sexes laughing out loud at the antics of an exceptional ensemble cast featuring debonair Morris Chestnut and comic genius Anthony Anderson. Incidentally, Brown knows the romantic ropes rather well because he co-scripted director Lionel C. Martin's How to Be a Player (1997) about a playboy who gets his comeuppance from all the women who he cheated on at a party.The first time your man messes up, Shante advises, no matter how minor the infraction, punish him. Punish him hard. Our heroine coaches a trio of soul sisters, Diedre (Mo'nique of 3 Strikes), Karen (Wendy Raquel Robinson of Miss Congeniality), and Tracye (Tamala Jones of Blue Streak) all of whom find themselves at the mercy of their errant men. Meanwhile, Shante endures none of their woes as she woos her boyfriend, Keith Fenton (Morris Chestnut of The Brothers), a successful, upscale, white-collar attorney. Moreover, Keith has never cheated on her. Shante's world shatters when Keith breaks a dinner date to work late at the office. Earlier, Shante had warned her friends that a man's most popular excuse for philandering is working late at the office.Nevertheless, Shante confides to the camera/audience that you never let your friends know if you are having trouble. Instead, Shante and her posse head off to their favorite restaurant nightspot where she catches Keith red-handed in the arms of another woman from his office. Predictably, Keith and his date scram, while an outraged Shante declares war on him with a foolproof ten-day plan to win him back. One of the best jokes here is the lingerie test. Shante tells her gal pals to buy lingerie a couple of sizes larger than their own and wedge it into the cushions of the couch at their boyfriend's apartment then extract the imitate item his presence and see what lies he conjures up on the spot to get himself out a jam.Shante isn't prepared for Keith's nimble-minded sidekick Tony (Anthony Anderson of Me, Myself, and Irene) who furnishes shrewd guidance from a player's perspective. Sometimes, Tony manages to outsmart Shante, but he warns Keith that even the Central Intelligence Agency has nothing on a woman with a plan. Keith struggles desperately to maintain his composure, ringing up Shante who refuses to answer his phone calls. When she plays hard to get, rival businesswoman Conny Spalding (foxy Gabrielle Union of Bring It On), moves in on Keith, and an exasperated Shante pursues another guy. The irony of Two Can Play That Game is that Shante has a solid game plan, but she lacks the control over Keith that her girlfriends exert over their men. Furthermore, by the end of this nonsense, Shante learns a valuable lesson that she cannot control men with her rules.Nothing about Two Can Play That Game is, of course, remotely believable, but the jokes are fast and furious, and the cast looks like they enjoyed themselves to the utmost. Comedian Anthony Anderson steals every scene he has, while Whitney Houston's former husband Bobby Brown appears in a cameo as Karen's buck-toothed boyfriend. Black and white alike can enjoy this pre Hitch love comedy. "},{"Title":"I wish all romantic comedies were this good.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect when I rented Two Can Play That Game, but it turned out to be the best random DVD I have rented in a long time.  The writer/director Mark Brown really studied his classic romantic comedies, and it pays off.  The story moved quickly.  The film was consistently funny.  There was sexual tension.  The 4th Wall technique reminded me of The Seven Year Itch, and it made the movie.  Brown also had a classy, visual sense.  Vivica A. Fox, Morris Chesnut, and Anthony Anderson were uniformly excellent.  I never would have guessed I would have liked this film as much as I have.  I have already seen it three times. "},{"Title":"ARGH.","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is NOT a good movie . Ok Viveca Fox maybe beautiful, but that doesn´t matter when she is totally unlikeable in this role. She plays a very smug woman who thinks very high of herself and can´t believe it when 'her man' suddenly is out with another girl. I got so enormously tired of her lipsmacking, necksnapping and curving of her lips as she tried to convince herself, and me, that noone can treat her this way. I am no fan of the 'look-into-the-camera' kind of storytelling and this film got it a lot. The 'rules' are also very boring 'no 3', 'day 2', rule four, 'sixth day'. The only really funny parts involved the characters played by Anthony Anderson (I) and Mo'Nique Imes-Jackson Last and not least What signifies a bad comedy? When the 40-seconds of outtakes in the end is funnier than the movie itself.  "},{"Title":"4x better than Bridget Jones","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is funny in abundance. It succeeds in all the areas B.J Diaries was hyped of succeeding but DIDN'T. Extra point for the Jag. The humor is on the edge of being targeted a little too much for the American audiences. Even if you aren't from the States but you are familiar with black American culture you'll get the jokes. "},{"Title":"Irritating delivery, and weak characters","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Personally, I didn't think much of this film. The way that a lot of the film came across - as a monologue by the main character - didn't make the story believable, and took away from the enjoyment from the film, as it made it quite irritating as the scene would be good, and then interrupted by her talking to the camera.I also didn't think a lot of the cast, and I think that the characters were too irritating to be likable, especially in a story like this. Though I didn't like their characters, two actors that I liked were Anthony Anderson, as he is a strong favourite of mine, and is a brilliant actor, and Mo'Nique, who did very well in her role.Over all, I don't think I would recommend this film to people, and if I was given the opportunity to watch it again, I think I'd turn it down. "},{"Title":"DISAPPOINTING MOVIE","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Two Can Play That Game Morris Chestnut/Vivica A. Fox/Anthony AndersonI recently rented this disappointing movie from first time writer/director Mark Brown.  I make it a general practice to rent on DVD. Once watching the movie, I then review the Director's commentary.  I couldn't get through the second scene of the commentary.  Mr. Brown is definitely new to the game of film making.While the movie was well casted, Morris Chestnut, Anthony Anderson, Monique, Bobby Brown, Gabriella Union (who was miss-casted) and others, Anthony Anderson saved the movie. Keith (Morris Chestnut) is a successful Attorney and Anthony Anderson is his colleague and friend.  Anthony's character coaches Keith in dealing with a `smarter than the average woman'.The idea of a trimmed down and toned Vivica A. Fox speaking directly into the camera throughout the entire movie, turned me off.  While the idea of this successful Black woman, living large and in charge, the epitome of respect from her girlfriends is appealing &#150; the character falls real short. She spends the entire movie giving advice as if it came from that stupid book, `The Rules' yet at the end (when she realizes the big plan may have backfired - she flips the script and punks out) To be honest I was very disappointed with the ending.Mr. Brown's vision was to show the games we play in love. The games played in this movie are some of the oldest tricks in the book and ones I would think a professional woman wouldn't need to play. A disappointing first effort by Mr. Brown.  I can say this much, it was much better than `How To Be a Player'. "},{"Title":"Let the games begin!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Shanté Smith (Vivica A. Fox) is a confident, successful, beautiful woman. She knows how to handle her man, she knows how to navigate the shark-infested business waters, and she knows how to dress for success in both the bedroom and the boardroom. Shanté is the envy of her best girlfriends Diedre, Karen and Tracye (Mo'Nique, Wendy Raquel Robinson, and Tamala Jones), who always turn to their wise mentor for romantic advice. But what happens when the teacher unexpectedly becomes the student? Shanté has a few things to learn, she realizes, when she catches her man Keith (Morris Chestnut) in the arms of her business rival, Conny (Gabrielle Union). Shanté immediately puts her step-by-step Ten Day Plan into action to get him back in line and back to her. Unfortunately the happy ending that Shanté fully expects goes upside down when Keith begins following the advice of his buddy Tony (Anthony Anderson), who brings a player's perspective to the games girls play. Fox carries Two Can Play That Game, and she carries it well. She is able to play her character in the traditional manner, and directly address the audience with sassy little asides. Doing this is risky and it usually doesn't work, but in this case Fox as Shanté is so likeable she easily draws the audience into her world and makes us feel that we're a part of it. First-time director Mark Brown (producer of How To Be A Player) should be commended for being able to strike this precarious balance. So too should the scribe -- hey, it's Mark Brown again! -- who wrote a witty, enchanting script. There's all-out comedy (when Shanté is on the sixth day of her Ten Day Plan, she must get out there and date. you've never seen an assembly line of so many hilarious losers) balanced with believable, heartfelt romance.While Fox does carry this comedy of the heart, she is well-supported by a standout cast of talented, likeable actors. Morris is almost as foxy as Fox as they love and spar; Anderson is so laugh-out-loud funny you'll need to bring tissues to the theatre; Mo'Nique is so cool you'll want her for your own best friend; and the smooth, sexy singer Bobby Brown is practically unrecognizable in a cameo appearance as a buck-toothed mechanic in desperate need of a makeover. Most of the characters in Two Can Play That Game are in need of a little makeover -- particularly when it comes to how they look at love and romance. But the movie itself needs no such makeover. It's perfect just the way it is.  "},{"Title":"One Can Play This Game  Gabrielle Union !","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For me, I didn't see anyone or anything here but the delicious Gabrielle M. Union. It's not the idea that this movie is entirely not my taste, also it wasn't basically an entire movie for God's sake! I believe it was some TV flick, or TV 2 episodes with No attraction at all. Not to mention its stars as well. Suffice it to say the magical 2 names  (Morris Chestnut) and (Vivica A. Fox)&#x85;Feel the pain already ??!! Now here you are 2 leads that can play indeed (play Hell cleverly !). The first one is too unbearable like someone heavy setting happily on your chest, and the second just sucking out the remaining air in the same time ! Specifically whenever (Chestnut) is on-screen, in here or at any other work, I feel a waterfall of silliness bursts into my house to sink me and anyone watching! Did you see his photo on the movie's poster  DISASTROUS !Plus, this script wasn't as different as it wanted. The comedy was nonexistent or rather DEAD ! And the direction made it really tasteless. Actually the whole deal fails to make you interested (I left the movie at its first half hour then forced myself to rerun the rented videotape to complete it !). I hated the most a scene in which the classy businesswoman (played by Vivica A. Fox) walks at poor apartments and complains &#x96; to the screen ! &#x96; about how all the black people raise their voice in inappropriate way !?? Aside from Fox's too ridiculous, too provocative way at delivering those lines, I got extremely bugged out of this scene's message; I mean was it a gentle satire so the black people must keep their voices down (in their homes!?), or was it just a way to make clear how Arrogant character like Fox's is ?! To tell you the truth; for most of the time I felt that the movie's makers are the actual arrogant ones!Simply the success of (Waiting to Exhale) in (1995) launched a long series of black movies after (mostly romantic comedies or movies with social commentary) that deal with black people, having a cast of black actors. Few were good, and many were horrible. I don't need to clarify to what category (2 Can Play That Game) may belong ! These movies deal with the problems or the concerns of the American black community's middle or upper class ONLY. Perhaps as a late reaction to the way the black character always has been portrayed for years and years in Hollywood, or a way to make these movies in the contemporary Hollywood anyhow ?! So for a Blaxploitation fan this is maybe the closest you can get to The Anti-Blaxploitation ! Or maybe the most white black movie, and I do mean it in a bad way. My Love (Morris Chestnut) did another crime to humanity in the same year, from the same trend, named (The Brothers) which was like a manly version of (Waiting to Exhale) yet awful and unwatchable.Still the only watchable, amusing, and meaningful thing in this short dud is one hell of an intro for the SEXY Gabrielle Union walking unforgettably in tight outrageous red dress (she's the one who makes it outrageous I can tell you that !) while the dear camera is shooting her &#x96; in slow motion &#x96; from toes to head to observe how hot she is and how naked her navel too ! At that point I, of course with all the male viewers that got the chance to watch the movie on video; woke up, rejoiced, then pressed rewind to enjoy this rare moment again AND to assure that IT'S the same movie that I was watching ! Anyhow, Nothing of this heat wave continued, while Nothing of the whole movie eventually was as very good as it. Damn, even Gabrielle Union herself wasn't given fair screen time either ! All in all I think that one of the Board's messages, here on the IMDb, said it right  Did anyone like this movie??? Enough commenting ! "},{"Title":"Silly 90 minute sitcom","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The only reason that I saw this movie is because my date wanted to see it and we did.  I waned to leave the theater as soon as this cartoon started but my immature date, wanted to stick around.  This movie as about 28 year old Shanté (Played by 37 year old Vivica A. Fox) who suspects that her man, Keith (Morris Chestnut) is cheating on her.  To teach him a lesson she starts playing idiotic mind games on him and narrates to the audience exactly what she is doing.  In a way I thought I was watching The Wonder Years', but that show was never this stupid.  Lack of plausibility is what makes this movie a complete fantasy.  The main focus here is the socio-economic statuses of the African American main characters, especially the female Shanté.  It is the complete reverse of the stereotype.  They each seem to command a six digit salary and enjoy the best of what life has to offer.  I would buy that if they all spoke proper English.  Their conversation topics and diction is that of 10 year olds waiting in the lunch line.  I seriously doubt that with such verbal skills any of them would pass the selection process and numerous interviews to beat the competition for the jobs that they are holding.     And on top of that, Shanté just had to trace her roots back to Compton.  Personally I thought that Vivica A. Fox and Morris Chestnut were much more mature and had bigger career goals to even think of participating in this 90 minute sitcom, but you never know.  After all even the mighty Gene Hackman was in a few dumb flicks.  "}{"Title":"Cute, charming, romantic comedy","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Here's a romantic comedy that doesn't devolve into utter stupidity or becomed mired in inanity.  It moves along at a nice pace, and though it's basically a silly movie, that's entirely forgivable since it never takes itself seriously.  The plot line is wafer thin in that it tracks the breakup of two affluent African Americans, but what is very funny is the strategizing back and forth; Vivica Fox of course has, or thinks she has, all the right steps in playing this game, but Anthony Anderson as the adviser to Fox's boyfriend, helps him counter a number of her moves. The fact that Fox's character speaks directly to the character works as a plot device, it moves things along and really gives insights into the character that, inasmuch as she is always scheming whether with her boyfriends or girlfriends, is the only way we'd get that info. The fact that this is a black movie is almost entirely irrelevant--there are a couple of scenes where Anderson and Chestnut are going back and forth with terms like preach it from what sounds like a black church meeting, but that just adds to the charm, it avoids all those awful ghetto cliches that seem to infuse Martin Lawrence style movies.  The movie is kind of a female version of a terrible Eddie Murphy vehicle from a decade ago called Boomerang about a womanizing ad executive, who has certain tactics when dealing with women.  But it avoids the nasty aspects and plain stupidity of that movie. This one isn't going to win any awards, but its a pleasant time, and everyone knows how what's going to happen in the end, the fun is watching the two go back and forth with their silly tactics--one of the funnier scenes involves some half baked philosophizing about transferrence of energy.  This one is worth the time.   "},{"Title":"This is one of the stupidest movies of all time!","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Is it me, or do the writers of some comedic shows and movies, try too hard to get a laugh? I found a lot of fault with this movie. Early in the movie, Shante says that if men acted right, women would give them all the love and respect they deserved. Please! Now we all know that this is not always true, on either side. A person could be as compassionate, considerate, loving, loyal, faithful and respectful as ever, and in return they get nothing but hate, disrespect, and a barrage of blows, physical, verbal and psychological.There is more stupidity throughout the film. There is the scene where her friend has a man who is cheating. This is where Shante advises women to plant an underwear somewhere and confront the man with this evidence. Now, don't you think I ought to remember who I slept with last night, and what color underwear she was wearing? If she wore any at all? The fool in this movie falls for this trick and makes up a lie about the underwear being his sister's. That part was ridiculous.Now, are most men still this stupid? Are they still stupid enough to bring other women into their homes, which they may share with their wives or girlfriends? Have they not seen How to be a player? Did they not all learn that you do NOT bring the sidepiece to the home? Did they not learn that you have to be discreet? The fool apparently didn't.The other thing is, why confront me about something I didn't do? That whole part was pretty absurd, just like some women's habit of destroying property when a man does wrong.The only parts I enjoyed are when Keith starts playing some games of his own. Oh, and this disgusted me. Shante slept with Keith on the first night. Very slutty and tacky indeed.The movie makes Shante seem too full of herself. Does she really believe that her man would call her that many times after she breaks up with him? Does she really think that he would that depressed? Like Keith was in this movie? "},{"Title":"Simply Irresistible!","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie because it describes our female need to be in control of a relationship that as taken a really bad turn.I'm really fond of this movie simply because I can relate to it.I found myself watching this movie when my boyfriend step out of line.But not to get relationship advise but to remind myself that yes two can play the game,but when a relationship as gone bad games are not always the Grown up way to deal with the situation.I guess the only true way to describe this movie is Simply Irresistible  "},{"Title":"I liked the concept...","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  of the main character constantly talking to the camera. I thought this was fairly good and funny. I liked Shante's so called rules to getting your man back after breaking up.  Some of them seem quite true.FINAL VERDICT Worth watching if you can catch it on cable. I got a couple of laughs out of it. "},{"Title":"GOOD LESSON FOR STUPID WOMEN WHO PLAY HEADGAMES!  WATCH IT!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a good movie that comically shows the mindgames that go on in everyday romantic relationships.  It shows what happens when you fail to communicate properly and begin to read too much into things that may or may not exist.Vivica A Fox plays an arrogant conceited woman who finds her boyfriend cheating on her (so she thinks).  He was just dancing with a co-worker who happens to be an attractive female.  There was no sex or kissing, but Vivica read too much into it and wanted to teach him a lesson.She hosts a series of mean heartless games to play upon his insecurities and emotions for her persoanl kicks.  It may be a movie, but it happens in everyday real life with women, and not just African American women either. Instead of trying to talk about what is bothering her, she resorts to trying to get even like a little high school girl would.  She plays the part of a professional well off woman who is independent and has it all.....but where is her security and ethics!  She spends too much time trying to get even and teaching him a lesson at the point where it consumes all her time.Vivica is getting sadistic pleasure from torturing her boyfriend until the tables turn on her.  He shows up to a party with another woman, and Vivica is livid.  She is so jealous and insecure, it will make your head spin.  He just went to the party to move on with his life, and this bugs her.  Women say they want a mature man who can just move on and leave them alone! BULL! Women want a man who will crawl after them to nourish their badly depleted ego's and restore the self-esteem they are badly lacking in the first place. Vivica is hoping that he will be waiting for her at her place after the party and is so sure of it.....but she is sadly disappointed when her home is empty and he isn't there for her.  The story has a happy ending where she sees him in a club and tries to get him back and he feels sorry for her sorry ass and takes her back.....but not so many men are that forgiving.She talks to the camera in this movie and tells all the so called rules of relationships.  One was that The first one to break it off wins the game! She was the first to break it off, but she is the one who lost the game that she created in the first place.  He moved on and found someone else, and she was hurt and bothered by his mature justified actions.  Woman can be so selfish and childish when like this.This movie is a good lesson for women to watch and learn from.  If you mistreat your man, he'll move on sooner or later and find someone better than you.  Then it is too late and you'll be crying you sorry little eyes out like the baby that you are in the first place.  Playing games never wins anything, it just makes a loser out of you!  My ex-girlfriend was exactly like that, but I never gave in to any of her mindgames and she lost the best thing that ever happened to her.  Then she began stalking me until I put a restraining order on her.  She thought she was being too smart by being like this, but the more mature person wins in the end (and finds a better person like I did!)  The whole time she wanted me back, it was all a game to nourish her ego in front of her loser friends (much like Vivica in this movie).  Playing games is not about love, its about control, and that is mentally unhealthy.  If you love someone and want them, tell them and show it!  Otherwise you will lose the best person you may ever meet in your life, and will never fill that gap ever again!  It may be a comedy for a movie, but it is real!  Games do not pay!  I am not cutting down all women out there --- because there are lots of nice wonderful loving ones in this world who deserve good men!  But the nasty ones who play emotional headgames for pleasure are pure dirt-bags who deserve what comes to them----Unhappiness! "},{"Title":"What a Good Movie!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I cannot believe the rankings that this movie is getting because I thought it was great.  The reason it gets such low rankings is that everyone turned their minds off the minute she started talking to the camera because any movie that acknowledge the 4th wall can't be worth watching.  Get over it.  Much like Shante too many people who watch movies follow rules when the do so and miss out on great stuff when they form impression of movies before they are even started.  The acting in this movie was top-notch.  Fox played a confident women, which may frighten some viewers, that will not let anyone walk over top of her including her boyfriend.  The battle of wits that took place between Andersen and Fox moved this picture so well and made me look forward to the next scene waiting for the counteraction by the other party.  Andersen was laugh out loud funny and Chestnutt was equally entertain playing the easily persuaded (by both Fox and Andersen) boyfriend.Bottom line is a rating less than 5 is ridiculous.  I'm just glad I got to enjoy it (twice) and I plan on recommending it to many more of my friends. "},{"Title":"A bit of a disappointment compared to","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Brothers, which it is the female side of.  I think this is primarily because of the awkward narrative form.  Still, the last quarter of the movie rewards those who have had the patience to stick with it.  The tubby partner of the character played by Morris Chestnut stands out here. "},{"Title":"Let the game play itself","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Two Can Play that Game stars Vivica A. Fox (she is hot, by the way for you guys) as a woman who lives by a set in place (I've never heard it though) rules of breaking up, and getting back with a man.  This comes into effect when she discovers her boyfriend (Morris Chestnut) is cheating on her. While some might find it entertaining and/or funny (really depends on who you are), it will be hard for some (as it was for me) to care about some of these characters after a while.  The humor also is too simplified. C- "},{"Title":"All's fair in love and war.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some may think this movie is like another male bashing movie. But it bashes males and females, when love turns into a battle of the sexes. The story starts with Shante Smith(Vivica A. Fox) a beautiful advertising executive who feels she has the perfect life and perfect boyfriend named Keith Fenton(Morris Chestnut) a handsome Lawyer. Shante becomes the envy of her friends. Until one night, while out with her girlfriends, Shante catches Keith dancing with another women.  Keith working late, and was invited to go out to eat by a co worker, who just happened to be an attractive female. Although Keith claims nothing happened and in a way pleads for forgiviness. Shante starts punishing him with a 10 day plan, to get him back in line. For a while her plan is working. Then her plan starts going awry, when Keith starts turning the tables, Thanks to his friend Tony(Anthony Anderson) who helps Keith see right through her plans. A fun romantic comedy, Vivica A. Fox and Morris Chestnut give charming performances, but its Anthony Anderson who steals the picture has Tony, who seems to know more about women then Morris Chestnut's character. He has the funniest one liners in this film. Gabrielle Union is also good has Connie,the rumored tramp. "},{"Title":"Boring, not funny....wait for video if you have to see it","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I knew this movie wouldn't be a classic by any means.  Unfortunately, I had seen everything that looked appealing at the theater so I had to turn to this.  It was worse than I expected.  I thought it would be one of those mediocre comedies which has a few laughs scattered throughout.  I distinctly remember nothing funny...at least nothing funny enough to make me laugh. The story was completely predictable.  Absolutely NO surprises.  Fox and Chestnut displayed no chemistry.  I seldom look at a watch during the movie...I did so four times in the midst of this one.  An uneventful story combined with laughless dialogue resulted in the most boring movie I've seen all summer.  If you have to see it, wait for video.   "}{"Title":"Cute, entertaining","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just saw this movie on Family Channel last night. Interesting that it was on Family, but oh well. Not a deep movie, really just one plot - romance. Lighthearted and fun. The acting was pretty good, the scenes moved well - I liked the narrative from Shante, speaking to the audience. Not familiar with these actors, but thought they all did a good job.One cliché - the buxom, feisty girlfriend. She was good, and clichés do exist. Not too much detail about the girlfriends and their lives, they seemed more like props. But this wasn't a deep movie with multiple plots. They served their purpose well. Oh, another cliché - the Chinese man delivering an order. But that's a reality, too.There were some great lines. Some good writing. Good job, Mark Brown. One line that stands out You play more games than the NBA. (something similar) Wish I could remember the others! Hope this writer is writing more.I don't watch a lot of movies ... just stumbled upon this one. It was good to have a movie with all the principals being African-American. I'm not African-American (Caucasian), so I can't relate to some nuances. But romance is romance, regardless of race, ethnicity, etc. We've all been there!!! "}]