[{"Title":"A Hidden Treasure","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Call it an art film. Call it low-budget. Call it limited-release. But it's a lot more entertaining and intelligent than 95 percent of what Hollywood produces these days. (I know this was filmed primarily in New Jersey, but you know where I'm coming from.)The psychological and physical tension between the two leading characters (Channing and Stiles) really makes this film. There's a lot to think about here, including the price to be paid for corporate success and how trust often ends up being the world's most valuable commodity.Anyone who's ever reached the top of the corporate ladder and then found themselves to tired to enjoy it will appreciate Channing's performance. She's a perfect fit for this role, strong and confident on one hand but insecure and a tad lonely on the other.It seems strange to say it, but I really liked something about how the culture of business travel was illustrated in the movie -- hotel bars, shuttle buses, cell phones, neatly-organized suitcases, lounges, alarm clocks. Maybe these characters simply have more impact in such an artificial environment.A solid 8 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A nasty bit of business...","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" ((((SPOILERS))))))Okay, in THE BUSINESS OF STRANGERS two women seek to get revenge on a man who has been accused (falsely, as it turns out) of rape. It is a small, but key part of the story. Their improvised scheme involves drugging him, taking him to a semi-public place, stripping him of his clothes and writing obscenities all over his body. Sexual humiliation, with the intent of leaving him shamed and degraded. A symbolic rape, as it were. But, they only strip him to his underwear. Why? Since the point of their actions is revenge and humiliation, then why not strip him naked? And why leave his clothes behind? As is, the poor guy wakes up, cleans up, dresses and apparently goes on like nothing happened. Instead of being a violation of his psyche as much as his body, the incident proves to be little more than a fraternity prank of no real consequence. The film wants to show the women doing a bad thing, but not bad enough to lose viewer sympathy.That is the problem with this artsy, but feather-weight film It never goes far enough. This man, who, up until he is taken advantage of, appears to be a cordial and sympathetic businessman, is cruelly victimized for no real reason, yet he doesn't seem to suffer anything more than a little bit of confusion. One of the women involved in the stunt is a newly chosen CEO of a major corporation and she seems a bit embarrassed at finding out she has been duped into risking her entire career for nothing, but that's all. The other woman, who devised this pseudo-sexual assault as a way of humiliating the first woman, doesn't even seem to get any great pleasure out of her petty manipulations. We see an act of kidnapping and sexual assault -- felonies -- but it seems to be meaningless, even though it becomes the focal point of the film.Stockard Channing is Julie, the executive. Julia Stiles is Paula, a corporate underling who has displeased Julie and was subsequently fired. Forced to stay at a generic airport hotel while on an out-of-town business trip, the two get to know each other. Part of this emotional, semi-feminist, pseudo-lesbian bonding includes targeting Nick (Frederick Weller), a corporate head hunter and a business acquaintance of Julie's. Being a male, Nick presumably represents a common opponent for the women, which is amplified to the level of enemy when Paula maliciously labels him as a rapist as well.The film embraces a feminist mindset, then debunks it. Three quarters of the film seems to suggest that Julie and Paula have a bond simply because they are both women -- even though they have little else in common -- and this culminates in their assault on Nick. The film also plays on the expectations of the audience, which has been conditioned to assume that women have a special bond and are justified at any act of rage against men (the Thelma & Louise syndrome). But, as we see, the abuse of Nick is not justified and is based on a myth that the mere suggestion of rape unites all women. In fact, this supposed gender bond allows Julie to trust Paula, who she has known for less than 24 hours -- and has already revealed herself to be exploitive and dishonest -- over Nick, a long-time associate who shows Julie nothing but friendliness and support. The film's twist reveals that the two women really don't have any unique sisterhood at all, and Paula was exploiting a feminist myth. Indeed, Julie seems to have done quite well in the man's world of business and really has more in common with Nick than with Paula.But, having the nerve to take on an anti-feminist position, the film backs away from it timidly. Nick is victimized, but not too much. Julie betrays Nick, but not to the point where it costs her anything; indeed, even though she treats Nick despicably, the film tries to makes us more sorry for Julie. Though the film falls short of showing Paula to be evil or psychotic, it sidesteps her obvious hatred of men in favor of her sexual and social jealousy and resentment of Julie. Gender politics propels the story, but remains only an understated theme in the narrative.As a character study, the film is not so bad. Channing is, as always, the picture of natural acting grace and subtlety. As Julie, she is always prepared for the worse to happen and is emotionally unprepared for enjoying life when it doesn't. Stiles is properly uncomfortable to watch as the perpetually duplicitous Paula, but her character never makes much sense. It is not believable that someone so irresponsible would end up assisting a high-powered executive. Maybe she is meant to be Julie's alter ego; a representation of Julie as a younger woman, or symbolic of Julie's pent up rage and resentment against men. Either way, she is less a person than a plot contrivance. Weller has the thankless job of being just an ordinary guy whose actions are open to interpretation. If he is innocent, he has our sympathy; if he is guilty the women have our empathy. The film lacks the courage to play the character either way, and Weller himself is left walking a tightrope for the benefit of the plot, making Nick seem oddly untrustworthy, even though he is given nothing to do or say that would support this.THE BUSINESS OF STRANGERS looks good and has solid performances. But like the shiny glass and chrome world it portrays, it is all superficial veneer. The action goes too far to make it merely a character study, but not far enough to make it a psychological thriller. It is a film that seems to be greatly angry about something, but is too unsure of itself to fully vent its rage. "},{"Title":"Corporate Fraud","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Business of Strangers is a stylish piece of work, but it's a bit fraudulent. The story, to me, anyway, is completely implausible. I just didn't believe a woman with the controlled personality of a CEO could be so easily drawn in to such a dumb prank. And once I found myself disbelieving that, I didn't buy anything else that happened in the film. The film also glosses over the implications of what Julia Stiles' character does - the guy could easily have died from the drug overdose. I suppose some people will interpret the ending as Stiles' character, the cold, manipulative bitch, beating the CEO at her own game, but I didn't see that at all. She just struck me as a man-hater, a lonely, lost little girl.This movie is also far from original. It contains too many elements from better movies I've seen before, notably In The Company Of Men. Even the best lines of dialogue in the movie are an utter cliché, when Stiles and Stockard Channing are swapping Ok, you told me what I am, now I'm going to tell you what you are barbs. The performances are all great; it's just the material that's lacking. The Business of Strangers is not terrible, but it's weak, and it trivializes not only the plight of women in the corporate workplace, but rape victims as well. "},{"Title":"A very risky business...","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Businesswoman (Channing) who has sacrificed her emotional well-being for corporate success unwisely allows herself to be taken in by the manipulative lies of sociopathic young underling (Stiles) while traveling.  Rather improbably, the two hatch plans to assault and sexually humiliate the young male recruiter (Weller) for no apparent reason other than antipathy to his masculinity, also lodged in their hotel. This procedure is a very risky business indeed, as the young man could have a fatal reaction to the alarming combination of drugs and alcohol foisted on him. Viewers should become very edgy as this sequence of mean-spirited events transpires with the never remote possibility of dire consequences ensuing.  By film's end,ironically, the hapless male victim is the only one of the three who remains unscathed and left with his innocence relatively intact through unconsciousness.  The new female CEO, however, is now left to face some disturbing and unpleasant truths about herself. "},{"Title":"Edgy, daring, unconventional","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Near the beginning of this imaginative film when Paula Murphy (20-year-old Julia Stiles) and Julie Styron (Stockard Channing) meet in earnest, Paula tells Julie what she really does in life I'm a writer, she says. I write short stories about things that I experience. Nonfiction. Fiction is too stupid, too neat. I like the sloppiness of real life. What we don't know at the time is that Paula is about to improvise just such a tale involving Julie, a tale that challenges the middle-aged executive's lifestyle and her assumptions about herself and inspires her to do things she wouldn't normally do.This is the business of strangers. And this is the story within the story. Paula is the diabolical kind of person who is dedicated to introducing people to themselves so that she can watch them twist, a privileged, under-achieving Ivy League girl with machinations. Julie is a community college workaholic who never had time for a family, or love, or self-discovery, a lonely woman whose life is a parade of sterile hotel rooms, anonymous strangers, alcohol and pills. Although the story drags in a little in spots, the overall effect is edgy and fascinating, and the contrast between the principals keeps us wondering who is going to come out on top.The action really begins when Julie, in an expansive mood with some booze and her promotion to CEO, shows some interest in the girl she just fired for being late to a presentation. It's not clear what sort of interest that is. Julie responds as a spider coaxing a fly into the web, but it's not clear what she's up to. They go to the pool and play around, get on the treadmills at the gym and run. They go back to Julie's suite and drink some more.At this point I'm afraid that the film will deteriorate into a politically correct cliché of some kind, or a lesbian wish-fulfillment debacle, without anything really happening. Enter (or actually re-enter) Nick Harris (Fred Weller) who, Paula has confided to Julie, raped her best friend when they were undergraduates in Boston. This excites Julie's loathing and so the two women play out an improvised and drunken revenge scenario that is a bit over the top, but psychologically correct.After some intense emotional interaction, the film resolves surprisingly and rather neatly, allowing us to see that Paula has indeed spun out a tale whose moral might be, watch out for young foxes. The scene in the airport emphasizes this, with Julie and Nick sheepishly sorting out last night's bizarre debauchery while trying to maintain their dignity, with Paula poised brazenly in plain sight wearing earphones, a smug silhouette in the distance.Patrick Stettner wrote the script, which, judging from the series of stationary settings and the limited cast, I suspect was originally a stage play. He also directed in a business-like manner, getting a saucy and smirk-laden performance from Stiles, whose originality and talent is obvious, and a steady and believable one from veteran Channing. Incidentally, Channing is a Harvard graduate who is perhaps best known for her performance as Betty Rizzo in Grease (1978) playing a teenager when she was 32-years-old! Here she braves some close camera work that starkly reveals the 57-year-old actress beneath the makeup. Yet, as always, Stockard Channing pleases us.But see this for Julia Stiles, a thoroughly professional player, whose arrogant, sneering, and edgy style add spice to, and partially disguise, her youthful mastery of the fine art of acting.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you don't like movies that ask you to work with them and make you think, then pass this one up.  I am not fond myself of cute cult flicks that everyone says are oh-so-marvelous, such as In the Bedroom, which I thought stunk.  This movie with its bullseye performances is one of the best.  Heaven forbid there are leitmotifs and innuendoes and symbolic turns in this film.  It's intriguing, convoluted, brain-teasing, mesmerizing, funny, scarey, and altogether enjoyable.  So, if you prefer whiz-bang, shoot-em-ups, with no plot, no character, and hackneyed characterizations, wait for the next Hollywood blockbuster, and avoid this adult drama that has flair, spice, hidden flavors.   "},{"Title":"Solid acting","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stockard Channing has always been a terrific actress and her excellent performance comes as no surprise but Julia Stiles is also very good thanks to a thought provoking script. I've always had my suspicions about Stiles and here she shows she also has some good Stuff. I hope she gets offered more films like this instead of the teenage fare where all that is needed is attitude. As good as Stiles is its still Channing's film. Youth cannot overcome experience, not here anyway. "},{"Title":"Would have liked to see more but that probably would have ruined it","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Paula hates men, and has learned to use her sexual attractiveness as a weapon against them.  It's made obvious the way she likes to taunt them in the elevator, the dance floor.  Making out in the hallway just enough to get him turned on, then kick him away.  Throwing their lame smalltalk back in their face.  (At the end of the movie I asked my SO why she did it and the answer was because she can.  I got it right.)Paula is a constant, but what about Julie? Together but brittle, Paula boils things to the surface of Julie that otherwise would not have come to light without sufficient heat.  This movie keeps you watching, and you can't help but question whether the characters and fallen out of character or not.  But that's the whole point.You keep watching because you want to see where it goes.  Over the edge, or reel back to safety?  Actors aside, the background is perfect, as anyone who has spent any amount of time on business trips knows.Eight stars.   "},{"Title":"David Mamet Copycat","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I gave this film 8 out of 10 points, but I automatically give any film with Julia Stiles at least a 7. She is always sultry and seductive and here is no exception. She is the Lauren Bacall of our time.Anyways, I have to agree with those that saw this as a taunt female thriller of the Single White Female variety. I have to disagree that the ending is unsatisfactory in comparison to that movie. This movie simply moves back into a realistic mode, instead of going for a psycho-bloodbath and gore finish.The movie really reminded me of David Mamet's writing. It is the surprise revelations about the characters that happen every couple of minutes that keep you fascinated throughout. That you have two great actresses playing here keeps things together.I found it filled with enough fun and unexpected moments to recommend it. It doesn't make you jump to the edge of your seat, but it does make you lean forward a few times. "},{"Title":"Business, not personal","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A number of other users have commented on the implausibility of Julie's being prepared to spend any time with Paula, still less to believe Paula's allegation against Nick, given that Paula has so quickly revealed herself to be untrustworthy. To take just the most obvious example, in the sauna Paula reveals that she has gone through Julie's medication and that this is something she always does. Clearly it's unthinkable that Julie could have any confidence in Paula's reliability after that. Julie's behaviour is odd, to say the least, and I'd like to suggest an explanation.Julie is indulging a fantasy of loss of control, with Paula's assistance. If this sounds implausible, consider the following exchange. At a crucial point, Paula expresses surprise that Julie hides from the security guard I thought you wanted to get caught. You know--the excitement of being exposed and humiliated. Maybe a little rough stuff. I mean that's why we're here, isn't it? Julie retorts that they're there because Paula is a profoundly disturbed young woman. Paula's reply is significant Oh, please. If you were a man you'd see a dominatrix twice a week. All CEOs have one. But we're women, so we don't do things like that. We express issues of doubt and control differently.Julie certainly has issues of doubt and control. When a board meeting is called without her knowledge, she assumes that it's because she's going to be fired. When instead she's promoted to CEO, the sense of anticlimax is palpable. She's going to celebrate, but how? Before the promotion, her job title was Vice-President but in fact she was just a highly effective but insecure salesperson. What's changed? Why, in these circumstances, would Julie wish to act out a fantasy of loss of control? I suggest that we often fantasize about what we fear most -- to reassure ourselves that we could cope with it if we had to.(So-called SPOILERS from this point on. Don't read any more if you don't want to know what happens.) Because it is just a fantasy, Julie never actually loses control. That's why nothing very bad happens. Julie loses money that she can apparently afford, but she doesn't get caught, fired or arrested and in the end she knows that no permanent damage has been done to Nick. (Is Paula to be believed about the number of Valium she'd given Nick? Why on earth would she suddenly start telling the truth at that point?) Finally, she's not going to change her life. Take this job away and I'm not sure what's left. It's the fact that Julie doesn't change that accounts for the dissatisfaction of a number of reviewers. The reviewer on film.guardian.co.uk, who reviewed this film in the same week as Baise Moi, described it as Baise Moi Lite, presumably because the antics that we watch have no real consequences. In that respect, this film reminded me a little of Fincher's The Game (1997). The status quo is left undisturbed. There's something a little smug about the ending.I have to say, however, that this is a much better film than The Game. It's better because, while Nicholas Van Orton's power and wealth are beyond question, Julie's are relative and precarious. The status quo that is apparently restored (and that was never actually under threat) was a much less comfortable one to begin with. There is something at stake, though it isn't what you might have thought at first.The people who've suggested that Paula acts as she does out of a desire for revenge are wide of the mark. She may be appalling and selfish, but she's not stupid. If she wanted to punish Julie, she could do a better job than this. When she threatens to start singing, Julie apparently calls her bluff. But there's no reason why Paula should have been bluffing. When she tells Julie that she has almost nothing to lose by being caught, the reasons she gives are valid. So why doesn't she sing? Because Julie is the boss -- or perhaps, the client -- and the boss gets to decide how far the game will go.Consider the kind of person Paula is. She's young and pretty, she meets a business person in a hotel bar and almost the first thing that person does is buy her the most expensive drink available. Not long after, the business person gets her a room in the hotel. A little later, Paula says that she watches porn movies all the time, adding It's fascinating to see how men view sex. These two statements are not linked by a because, but it might be implied. If it is, the suggestion is that Paula takes a professional interest in what turns men on. Paula takes money jobs because what she considers to be her real work, writing non-fiction short stories for small literary magazines, doesn't pay (I mean that literally). In the second-last scene, Julie lies on the bed, pretending to be asleep, and watches while Paula removes the money from her wallet. Clear now? Paula is, in effect, a part-time prostitute. Because women express issues of doubt and control differently, there's no point in her trying to use handcuffs and a whip on Julie. She has to exercise her imagination a bit more but she's prepared to do that, for a price.Watch Paula when Julie approaches her in the hotel bar. She's constantly sizing Julie up, trying to figure out whether she wants to do business and if so, how far she wants to go. That, I think, is the point of the exchange in the lift about the strap-on Julie is making it clear that she's looking for a good time. "}{"Title":"Why can't Hollywood make more films like this?","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Every once in a while the bloated self-satisfied monster that lives in La-La Land wakes up in a strange mood. Maybe it's boredom; maybe it's indigestion from eating too much popcorn. Who knows? Who cares? We who hand over our hard-earned cash to keep the wolves (or coyotes, perhaps) from its door should be grateful when this happens, because it results in the occasional small-scale acutely-observed unsettlingly intimate piece of cinematography which reminds us that, despite the monster's influence, there still exist in that land a handful of real human beings trying to make a living by making films about... real human beings trying to make a living.Look up! See that glass ceiling? No? well that's probably because you're a man. Or short-sighted. Workaholic Stockard Channing thinks she's got her nose pressed up against it. All that hard work, and for what? The Man At The Top wants to talk to her. Pronto. Why, he's even insisting on meeting in some God-forsaken half-built airport hotel in the middle of corporate nowhere. What is it that could not possibly wait until she gets back to the office? It's a recipe for a bad mood, so it's no surprise when she takes it out on her poor hapless assistant Julia Stiles.This neatly divides our sympathies. Channing's about to have her entire raison d'etre whipped away, and Stiles simply had the bad luck to be an unimportant traveller at the mercy of the weather and the airlines. Now they're both stuck in that hotel with no-one to take it out on except each other.Except that nothing is quite as it seems. It would be giving too much away to explain how, exactly (and indeed the film never quite makes the truth of the matter clear), but suffice to say that power and powerlessness don't always reside where they seem to. Anyway, this film isn't really about what these women get up to (or what happens to the unfortunate headhunter (sorry, executive recruitment consultant) that Channing has asked to find her a new job). No, it's about how they very quickly find out that they are, more or less, the same person 30(-ish) years apart. Strong women. Frustrated women. Independent women. Different perspectives, of course Channing's frustration stems from her perception of that glass ceiling, whereas Stiles' is because she hasn't found a way through life yet. Of course it's not a comfortable discovery (how many of us really want to see ourselves from the outside?) but in the end they grudgingly accept the truth about themselves and each other.All this is on the whole nicely observed and faultlessly acted. One moment in particular stands out for sheer economy of effect Stiles seems to be about to take her bra off when she pauses, pokes her tongue out and closes the door in our face, managing effectively to say Get lost! to Channing, us and the Hollywood machine in one split-second gesture. (Economy seems to have been a watch-word here - how many films have a cast of 10? And that includes the non-speaking parts.)It's a pity, though, that there are a few places where the theme of women in a man's world is handled a little clunkily. A line like Whisky? That's a man's drink is on the unsubtle side, as is the scene where the two women start to explore an unfinished hotel wing, passing a sign saying Danger no admittance. (Careful now - you haven't got metaphorical hard hats on your pretty little heads.) But these are minor blots on the landscape of an otherwise excellent film.9/10. "},{"Title":"Just about perfect","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film at the San Francisco Film Festival (Apr '01).  It was part of Stockard Channing receiving a career award from the SF Film Society. She interviewed and the directed answered questions after the film.The film is just about perfect in it's quest to portray a power relationship between the two women, Stockard Channing and Julia Stiles.  They shot this film in only 23 days.  The performances of the two actresses are outstanding and the film never hits a false note.  Expected to be released in late 2001 with hopeful Oscar buzz.  I hope this film is marketed well because it's a good one. "},{"Title":"Girls just 'wanna' have fun!","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" What a pleasure to watch Stockard Channing in this film! The range of emotions she undergoes playing Julie, an over-the-hill, frustrated and angry woman, who perhaps has been overlooked by her employers, like so many other women with a lot of qualifications, too many times. She is totally vulnerable. She's afraid of losing her job, which she has worked probably so hard to obtain and keep. She goes from one extreme to another in a range that is very hard to imagine another could convey as eloquently as Ms. Channing.She meets her match when Paula, her new assistant, gets into the picture. Paula is an enigmatic character who we don't know where she's coming from, yet, she exerts an incredible amount of power over her newly acquired boss. That's when the fun and games begin. Julia Stiles projects a mystery about who this assistant is, obviously a product of privilege and wealth in sharp contrast with Stockard Channing character, who we get to know, comes from very humble origin and whose ascent into the position she is now is the product of hard work. Her ambition is natural because her Julie has had to struggle and fight for whatever she has gotten from life, including her present executive position.It's like a good tennis match watching these two actresses go at it, and at each other throughout the film, but it is Miss Channing who outshines and makes this feature so much fun to watch. The script and direction from Patrick Stettner are just right, but he is well served by his cast. "},{"Title":"Enigmatic and unpredictable","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Four words, this movie is amazing. I haven't seen Stockard Channing this good since Six Degrees of Separation. This is definitely her best performance to date. Julia Stiles was superb. I haven't walked out of a theater this pleased in ages. Although I have been a fan of Stockard since Grease, my real delight was the script. This is great writing. It's enigmatic and unpredictable, funny yet compelling. I tip my hat to Patrick Stettner. Who needs special effects, long months of filming and huge budgets, when you have such wonderful script and great acting. All shot in 23 days. "},{"Title":"Very well made, but the ending leaves something to be desired","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Business Of Strangers is a quiet - and quietly intense - two-and-a-half-character psychological drama, unusually dialogue-heavy and visually elegant for a 2000s film. I was surprised to find out, through IMDb, that writer-director Patrick Stettner has only made one more film since, as he shows both talent and ambition here. This is a movie that commands your attention not with action but with words, looks, gestures. And it also features two performances by Stockard Channing and Julia Stiles that probably rank among the highest accomplishments of their careers. However, the ending is underwhelming, as it arrives at a plot revelation that most viewers will have already suspected. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"The Business of Strangers &#x97; 24 hours with two different but equally driven women","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Business of Strangers is about the world of those women jockeying their lives in the phallocentric spheres of our society. It's a great movie done with very little.The good. Simple yet very elegant mood and settings. Solid editing. Interesting, realistic, and straight forward story. Nicely put together characters who evolve before our eyes.The actors. In this production, we can see Julia Stiles starting to spread her wings and some of her potential. However, as much as I love her, Stockard Channing is the real star here. She portrays the power business woman, her struggle and her changes of mood, with incredible clarity.The bad. The emptiness of ordinary lives usually filled with glitz and details by Hollywood can be slightly disorienting here. I think it's perfect, but not for everyone.The ugly. Nothing.The result. Very low key character driven film. Don't expect a dazzling display, turn on your brain, and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"modern day who dunnit","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with everyone's comments that I have read so far.  As for the ending, here are some things to think about.  POSSIBLE SPOILER BELOW1) Paula said that she couldn't find her own pulse let alone find someone else's, yet after Julie takes out her frustrations on Nick and leaves the room in a state of disbelief of what she has done, Paula, without thinking, takes his pulse and says, close.  2) If she was raped by Nick, why would Paula be willing to get near him, put her arm around him on the sofa, touch his private parts, etc.; 3) A Dartmouth student (she never said she graduated) has no credit cards, no money or means of taking care of herself on a business trip; and 4) she stole from the very person who gave her back her job, took care of her on the trip and is the big cheese now of the company she works for, again.  I think its perfectly clear that alcohol, which was a formidable character in this movie in and of itself, made judgments go awry and lifelong mistakes were made by these women which is why Julie did not demand her stolen things back from Paula sitting within eye-shot of Julie in the airport.  This was well written, a challenge to its audience and the characters were skillfully played by profound talent.  I recommend anyone to see this movie, then rewind it and watch it again to pick up what you missed the first time! "},{"Title":"and then, and then?....aw shucks!","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stockard Channing and Julia Styles deserve Oscars for this would-be psycho thriller which, as others stated, just built you up, just to let you down. It could have been more mind bending if the surprise element of Julia's true character revealed, had been more thoroughly explored rather than teasing us for so long, with no shock value at the end. Doesn't have to be blood and gore, but certainly some kind of consequence for the malicious actions of both women against an innocent man besides leaving us with the proverbial thought, 'Oh, maybe I really don't want this job...I should get a life.' Still, for all the potential 'could've beens', I enjoyed the movie. "},{"Title":"Raw Emotions","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film surprised me. I have always loved Stockard Chaning and felt she has truly been under rated her work is among the best. But Julia Stiles was great in this film beyond her usual. I like Julia Stiles don't get me wrong I have always thought she was a good actress but I have felt that she could be in better parts. Sometimes the teen theme is not always doing her justice. But this film was a great break for her. Good material and great chemistry. I loved her character she was raw and raunchy and you want to like her. And then you want to root for the both of them as they do things they know they are wrong and dangerous. And even though there are plot twists at the end you still have a liking for the characters and if you are a woman you can see yourself in them. The dilemma of personal and work fighting for which one to come first and the way that pain can slowly bubble up to the top from self abuse and abuse of others. That is what you see in these characters. They may act extremely but they are shown in a very human way. Chaning has some really great acting in this role her emotions are so big they almost pull you into the room with them. while this may not be the best film both of them have done it is a very good piece and it is well put together.A true character piece not flashy or full of special effects but full of raw and gritty emotions. "},{"Title":"A movie about women, definitely not a 'chick flick'!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stockard Channing is America's Judi Dench. Why doesn't she get more opportunities to show it in the movies? Here is a great one, and she doesn't miss it.Both actresses are excellent in this tale of the tricky relationship between two generations of women, the betrayals of each sex by the other, and of one generation by the other.The audience are treated like adults, moral questions arise and are considered without being answered with some cliche of an ending.'SC' should have wrung another Oscar nod from the Academy. More importantly, i'd like to see her get more leading roles in movies of this calibre. "}{"Title":"I like the sloppiness of real life.","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fascinating study of two very different women with the ever impressive Stockard Channing (The Matthew Shepard Story, The West Wing) and Julia Stiles (The Bourne Trilogy, Edmond).Julie (Channing) had to scrape her way to the top, apparently coming from the wrong side of the tracks. She is so fearful that, when her boss wants to meet with her, she immediately calls a headhunter to see what's available.Paula, with her multiple tats, is a child of privilege, and just wants to have fun.Can you imagine the clash? Unfortunately, Nick (Fred Weller) gets between them and suffers as a result.It is one of those films that will have you thinking long afterwords. "},{"Title":"A Small Classic","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stockard Channing is one of the best actresses on the planet and when she is at her best, as she is here, it is one of life's pleasures watching her perform. Debut director Patrick Stettner's film is a small stunner; a three-hander that may not make much sense if viewed 'realsitically' but has all the pleasures of a film made by someone who loves films for people who love films.Channing is the big business executive stuck overnight at an airport hotel who falls in with the mousy assistant she had fired earlier, (Julia Stiles, almost stealing the film) and a sleaze-ball headhunter, (Frederick Weller, also excellent). What happens owes a lot to other movies rather than real life and Stiles turns out to be anything but a mouse, but it's smart, clever, funny, visually imaginative and it wrong foots you every step of the way. In fact, it's a small classic; the kind of film you remember when the big ones get away. "},{"Title":"Not Believable","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Business of Strangers is about a middle aged CEO Julie (Stockard Channing) who befriends and spends a night with a sadistic underling Paula (Julia Stiles). It's the old cliché the criminal gives the successful non-criminal new insight about themselves by talking them into committing crimes. Usually this makes a good movie but in this case it's hard to believe someone as powerful as Channing's CEO would allow Paula to order them around. And Stiles character is not deep enough to believe she would be capable of such acts. Overall the movie misses the mark. "},{"Title":"Another great movie ignored by the Oscars (there's a shock)","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie with an open mind, not knowing very much about it.  I thought it was excellent, although a little f***ed up.  Stockard Channing was simply perfect for the role (hello, Oscar people, good actress, good acting, where's the award, dips***s?).  Julia Stiles' role sould have been more examined to show why she wanted to do everything she did that night (if you saw it you know what i'm talking about), but I think she just wanted to give Stockard a jolt of reality for one night, or she was just plain weird (fine by me).  I loved everything about this movie, especially the elevator scene, which looks like somthing I would do with my friends to give people a little scare.  Overall, a great movie, with strong acting.  If you didn't like this movie, stick your hand in a blender and turn it on! ! "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stockard kicked major ass, just like she always does! I love this movie, it is one I would watch again and again. The cast could not be better, I suggest renting this one today~ Awesome movie ~*STOCKARD FOREVER*~ "},{"Title":"A slick String pulled psychological drama of the venus gender.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What do we get when we have two hard as marbles women waiting in airport for a constantly delayed flight? 90 minutes of awe and the urge to drink a cold bottle of Evian, for some reason BOS really makes me agitated, i don't know which character should i root for, the two of them are made-in-hell-tough,so tough i think my teeth will sink backwards if i bite on any one of these angry damsels. The story basically goes like this; 40 something woman A in the hectic moment of her daily slave corporate basis, in the middle of it she manage to rough handle early 20 woman B, who supposedly is her assistant on spot. However after woman A managed to get promoted as a CEO. she sobered up and befriends woman B , who have secrets and intentions of her own, putting other character aside (MEN) a psychological claustrophobic game of mind-stabbing commences, who shall be the victorious? this is a tale of the older against the brash younger both with their unpleasant past stories. Stockard Channing takes the role of a woman who's been around in a male dominated corporation, had this been a film of a bigger scale, an Oscar nomination would be a no-question, enough said.Julia Stiles taking the antagonistic role here, sporting some rub-on tattoos, she plays her part as the rebellious writer/assistant (who might or might not have been pulling strings since it all begun) too convincingly, its a love and hate character,i never saw her being so menacing,which is always a good surprise. Director Patrick Stettner, on his feature debut,works his gig neatly, from the first opening scene, he entrust the audiences intelligence by giving us hints about the backdrops of where the story going to take place, Michael Mann-ish shots of Landscapes really gives you the sense of chill that you usually get when youre sitting in an empty soccer stadium,and you're not even a soccer fan.Certain scenes really offer some deep screen linguic messages, such as the scene where the two heroines explored the area of the hotel that is under construction, makes one eager to flip his/her film language Cyclopedia. The lightings are subtle yet vivid, the pale white backdrop, the contrast of dark foreground which works as an enclosure for battlefield of the two women, which separates them from the outside world.A good film , especially those who didn't expect anything, i was having high expectation because of some recent positive hearings, well satisfied i am, in a negative accentuated kinda way. 3.5 out of 5 stars. +3.5 for upsolid performances from the aging yet raging Stockard and the young Stiles, Good direction and photography, an enganging dialogue in the tradition of Mamet(think Glengary Glen Ross). -1.5 for minor uh oh and a storyline that could have been more..ummm.. broad. "},{"Title":"Ladykillers beware! )","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poignant tale of two eager women; one has passed her prime and bears the scares of the still male dominated business world of the early new millennium is aggressively portrayed to a 'T' (as in Tenacious) by Stockard Channing who is chillingly ruthless from frame to frame. The other younger, equally crafty, as well as wickedly sly woman is played by Julia Stiles who no doubt is cast by design to steal the glances of the male audience as well as opposite genders in this story of destructive payback.Stiles' character is manipulatively calculating as she subtly unfolds a selfish plan to map a path to own success yet who's comeuppance could inevitably be in her near future at the hands of her adversary's lofty rank&#133; or possibly visa-versa given that both become disillusioned by the cardinal sins of greed, envy and last but certainly not least, lust. Gets off the track a bit with the man-humiliation angle which may have went a bit to far but both Channing is stellar and Stiles is something to be reckoned with in this picture in more ways than one as both should be duly commended for their outstanding performances. Comparisons to Neil LaBute's powerful 1997 'In the Company of Men' are inevitable but still stands well on its own. "},{"Title":"A small, but forceful, film that offers plenty of food for thought","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In The Business of Strangers, Stockard Channing plays Julie Styron, a self-made business woman approaching middle age who is paired up with young tech assistant Paula Murphy (played by Julia Stiles) on a business trip.  When Paula arrives late to a meeting due to a delayed flight, a distressed Julie has her fired on the spot.  Later, after being promoted CEO of the company, Julie runs into Paula sitting alone in a bar, apologizes for her rash behavior and the two set out on a night of female bonding, power trips, revenge, mind games, and button pushing.This verbal film spends a considerable time exploring the stark contrasts between the two women.  Paula is a hostile young woman who writes non-fiction about her life experiences, sports tattoos, experiments with bisexuality and self-mutilation, and has a fondness for hardcore pornography.  Julie is career-driven to the point of isolation and is much softer and less confrontational than Paula.  It is exactly through these contrasts that we see a complementary relationship emerge between these two characters.  While Paula's brash confidence exposes Julie's insecurity and anxiety, Julie's worldliness and experience make Paula seem impetuous.  As a result, a dynamic interplay and synergy come out from these exchanges.When a male associate of Julie's enters the plot, Paula ups the ante by revealing to Julie that he committed a rape at a frat party she attended in Boston years ago.  From this point on, The Business of Strangers turns into a story of revenge and maintains a misanthropic and satirical tone.  It is this tone that makes The Business of Strangers so much like Neil Labute's indie hit, In the Company of Men, in the way that it explores power trips, mind games, one-upmanship, and competition.  In this film, a woman's struggle within a male-dominated corporate world is also an theme that is covered.The Business of Strangers is not exactly an impressive film stylistically, but it more than makes up for this in its delicious dialogue which works two ways.  It always keep the suspense going by teasing and daring the audience to guess what will happen next, only to foil any attempt to do so.  Another thing the dialogue does is establish the characters' personalities by shedding light on their life histories and motives.  Channing and Stiles fill both their roles to perfection and play off each other extremely well.  Channing is up to task with her most interesting role since Six Degrees of Separation nearly ten years ago.  Every look and gesture serves to imply the world-weariness and jaded vulnerability that Julie inhabits.  Stiles, is no less impressive as the more provocative of the two women.  Apart from seeing a few random scenes from 10 Things I Hate About You, I have never seen her act before, but her dynamic performance here has me intrigued.  Both Channing and Stiles are deserving of Oscar nominations, but will most likely be overlooked since The Business of Strangers is a low budget indie film.  While the 85-minute running time is slight, this movie will keep you engaged in thought as well as entertained.  "},{"Title":"The Games People Play","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" While The Business of Strangers is by no means a thoroughly satisfying film (sort of how LIFE is never always completely satisfying), it certainly makes for nearly an hour and a half of compelling, thought-provoking fare. The always-superb Stockard Channing is at her coiled best, never really seeming relaxed even when she's supposedly tanked on scotch. An Oscar-worthy performance, even when we're not completely sure of her motivations - although this is a good thing here, because SHE's not so sure about what the heck she's doing either, even though she's supposedly so in control. And Julia Stiles shines here too, investing her character of Paula with ambiguity galore - in the course of the film she exhibits confusion, rage, sadness, cruelty, disgust and much more -- sometimes all in the same scene. There are no simple explanations here, no easy and tidy ending to this tale (just like in life - 'the messiness of life,' Paula alludes to early in the film). Every day people act out neurotic behavior (which has nothing to do with their daily lives but rather with things that have happened in their pasts), and every day people who are supposedly in control desperately long for 'a dominatrix' to work them over for a few hours a week. Julie 'hires' Paula to do that for her in this movie, and by the end, after all the mind games have been played and the dust settles, you're not sure what to think, which is also the way life does us for the most part. "},{"Title":"PERFECT","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Business of Stranger was a great movie.  Julia Stiles did a great job I think.  The movie was a Thriller/Drama movie.  But it was more a Drama movie to me.  Stockard Channing was great too.  The movie was a Perfect Thriller/Drama type of movie I liked it..... "}{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Business of Strangers is sold as a film about corporate manipulation. It deals with Stockard Channing (giving another wooden performance) as a business executive on an out-of-town meeting who learns while there that she has been promoted. She also fires her newly hired assistant Julia Stiles for coming late for an important business meeting. Nick Harris is the head-hunter who works for her company, who is also in town for a corporate meeting.Business of Strangers revolves around these three characters and the time they spend together at the hotel-airport when they miss their flight. There are subtle lesbian overtones at the start of the movie. Stiles is undoubtedly the villain of the piece - the poor, ambitious girl struggling to be a writer. Nick Harris and Channing are the ones cast in a more sympathetic light despite the fact that their professions should not draw any sympathy.There was nothing striking about the plot or the dialogue. Julia Stiles is a good actress and someone to watch out for - if she can get out of the Ludlum action movie cycle. "},{"Title":"Weird thriller","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Business of Strangers is a thriller, I would say one of a kind, but this time, this is not in the positive meaning of the word positive. Well, maybe it's only me, but I thought the movie is too strange for its own good. Of course I liked some scenes, but the movies was boring overall and as I said couple of times already - strange. So we have a mature woman who fires a young beautiful girl, but after she realizers life is not that bad, she brings the girl back to her job when they meet in a hotel. In fact the movie continues in the hotel and ends there which I consider as another pointless act.The plot's direction leads us to another kind of movie, highly different than the first 15 minutes which are kinda promising if you don't have some big expectations. The movie is overrated according to IMDb's rating. It's even for 6.0. This is my opinion of course, but I am just saying this, cause your expectations might become higher if you see the rating and you might think the movie is special or something. As I said, it is different, but I didn't like that. I suppose, I should give some arguments why I don't like the movie that much or why I think it's strange. Well, there are some SPOILERS below. We have something like a friendship between a young beautiful girl with self confidence, eccentric character and optimistic look on her present and future life and a mature woman with strange understandings of life, dark past and pessimistic look on her future life. These 2 totally different girls meet and the movie becomes strange. First the director and writer as well, recreates a lesbian kind of story which was kinda strange addition to the plot and the idea of the movie. This is the main problem with the movie. I didn't get what does the creator of the movie, want to show with this relation between the two females. Then, when we think that these 2 girls are about to kiss or something, or if not, they would become best friends and they will trues each other although of them is under the control of the other when it comes to their job. Nope, that does not happen. When a guy arrives and meets Julie Stile's character, she tell her mature friend who knows the guy from a long time, that he had raped a friend of hers. Another strange plot twist that I didn't like. It was a really strange decision of the director. After these 2 strange plot directions, I realized the movie symbolizes something and it's full of deeper meanings that are not necessary at all.Other than the stuff above, I was surprised from the good acting, the nice themes and the good directing. These things made me give a good rating for the movie. I don't quite know why. I guess, I've been in good mood. I always look for a great plot in similar kind of movies. Anyway, I don't recommend it to anyone, although I can't say it's the worst movie ever. I guess it just lost its potential, trying to be a thriller like no other. "},{"Title":"Awesome character performances","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" For a film that is focused on character performances, this is excellent. I have worked around many 40-something silicon valley female executives and Stockard Channing nails the part to the point of an Academy-Award level performance. I *hated* Julia Stiles character, which is what the director intended, I believe, so she did well too. It is an interesting study of people, not a perfect movie by any means, but if I were the director, or an actor, I'd be proud.Seeing Stockard Channing's icy response to her promotion to CEO - while expecting she'd get fired, was so perfect for the up and down positions in high-tech companies. Remember this was made during the dot-bomb market. Her playful time at the gym and pool (and the elevator discussion about the *black* dildo) with Julie Stiles was so typical of women (or men) trying to bridge the generational gap. "},{"Title":"complex film with levels of meaning","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's a lot more to this movie than meets the eye. This is a brain movie, and so those who might easily dismiss is as the sum of its symbolisms, or the transparency of plot line, just don't get it. (I feel a need to dismiss those who would dismiss the film). But from the postings, I see most people do get it, or at least are groping towards an understanding. So what if the plot is a reversal of In The Company of Men. What is the film saying about women's sexuality when they go into business?--Leave it at the front door? (First generation of feminist thinkers).--Use it or lose it baby? (Generation Next). So this tension is beautifully played upon by the two protagonists. (And who's the antagonist?--Nick (clearly a shill), Business (you're getting warmer)--Our culture at large? (Bulls Eye!) Stylles character wants to assert it's hyper-cool attitude a free-lancer (look it up in the dictionary A Medieval Knight with no allegiance to prince or crown--available to the highest bidder). Plays the post-modern game of business like nobody's business. She's the working girl for the 21st century. Just tell her how much you have to spend and she'll tell you when the ride is through.Channing Old School, played by the rules and now she's on top. And what a price she's payed. Allienation, Loneliness, Confusion about means and ends. Now vulnerable, but she's always lived by her wits, and she's not going to fold now.This is a movie I can confidently recommend to my young adult daughters. "},{"Title":"Answering an interesting question in a highly entertaining manner","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Business of Strangers answers the, What if a cruel psychopath was plopped into a group of normal persons, question. In this movie, the psychopath is Julia Stiles, and the normal group consists of only two individuals, Stockard Channing and Fred Weller. From the outset I found every bit of the movie credible. Stockard Channing is an anxious, stressed, and cynical professional who knows utter randomness is a fact of life. She does her job as well as she can, but realizes that most of her working future is way beyond her control. Fred Weller is an unnecessary acquaintance who happens to be there when the Julia Stiles character lands in their midst.Now, I must confess that being a male reviewing a work involving predominantly females may not seem proper because I am sure I missed many nuances, both verbal and nonverbal, that women would note and understand, however, that said, from my point of view, I could understand the power struggles and spur of the moment decisions that Channing was forced to confront. Maybe it is only in my imagination that women have the same conflicts and tensions as men, but the way this story was presented I am sure gender was not a determining factor motivating the actions of either the Channing or Stiles character. Those motivations being a struggle for conquest, self-preservation, and sanity.To be quite frank, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I thought the acting, tone, and plot were all far above average and would recommend it to anyone looking for a good hour and a half of sophisticated and intense escapism. "},{"Title":"In the Company of Women, featuring some choice observations from the other side.","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Intriguing, if not original, glimpse at a couple of corporate babes in need of a release.  While it's all fairly routine in nature, and the motivations of the female leads rather mundane (one's a spinster corporate executive, the other's an abused coed intern), nearly all the observations and exchanges between the two ring true.  The picture is rather gentle in nature compared to Neil LaBute's vicious counterpart.  Curiously, the male character's nature is surprisingly the most assured under the circumstances, and that is probably the most enlightening aspect of the picture.  Bitchin' and boozin' can be fun.     "},{"Title":"Great movie . . . unfortunately most will not understand","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First, let me say that this film is absolutely fantastic both as a psychological thriller and as a political/sexual critique.  Stockard Channing does a fine job, and I for one was astounded to see that Julia Stiles really CAN act when given decent material.However, I would not just recommend this film to anyone.  It's a movie that must be viewed in a certain context.  Seeing it outside of that framework will only bewilder and frustrate the casual viewer. (Think of how you felt when you read your first Shakespeare play in high school and said What is this crap?  I can't understand what they're saying!)  So, how to prepare for this movie1) You must must must watch Neil LaBute's _In the Company of Men_ first. I suspect this film is a direct answer to that one.  Whereas LaBute's story was about misogyny and male cruelty, _The Business of Strangers_ tells a similar story from the sexual revenge plot of two women.  The beauty of this film is that, as you will see, it is not content to stop merely at the divisions of biological sex.2) An understanding of feminism and/or gender studies is helpful (or maybe even required) for this film.  At a very basic level, what we have here is a deconstruction of several widely-accepted cultural ideas about gender and rape.  By the end of the film, these concepts are marvelously ambiguous. Again, though, you need some background to appreciate it.Some may say that a film such as this which practically requires Cliffs Notes isn't worth watching.  I would respectfully disagree.  Although it's a shame that _The Business of Strangers_ can't be more self-contained, in 85 minutes it does reach a depth of social critique that simply cannot be matched by contemporary mainstream film.If you're willing to invest the time, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Never Talk To Strangers","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A successful Business woman(Stockard Channing) named Julie misses her flight along with her young assistant Paula(Julia Stiles). Julie and Paula have gotten off on the wrong foot at first but now them two are getting to know each other slowly. After a long night of drinking and spilling secrets, they know just about everything about each other. This is a simple story with a strong meaning, to never trust and just to simply never to talk to strangers. I would give the Business Of Strangers 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Absorbing but Implausible","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very well crafted, interesting film that kept me watching all the way through.  Most of the film's good and bad points have been delineated in other comments, however there is one large fly in this film's ointment. Why would Julie, the hard-boiled, female CEO fall for a story told by someone she just met that day and who has already shown the CEO that she likes to manipulate other people?  It was obvious from their initial conversation in the hotel bar that Paula is a cynical, egocentric child who `likes the messiness of life.'  Julie neither asks Paula for any sort of evidence nor confronts Nick, the accused, about the story. Julie just believes the whole story from the get-go.  This would never happen in real life.  I could understand Julie being sympathetic to Paula, but would she stoop to participating in very criminal acts solely on the word of a person such as Paula?Perhaps my incredulity can be ascribed to a lack of sensitivity on my part - that today's women share a bond of sisterhood that a middle-aged man can never hope to understand.  But a middle-aged woman like Julie who came up the hard way (East Michigan Community College) would be more likely to ask for some hard evidence before taking action against a business acquaintance.Other than this turd in the punchbowl, The Business of Strangers is a well-crafted piece of cinema featuring very good direction by Patrick Stettner, excellent acting &#150; especially Stockard Channing &#150; and believable dialogue.  Hopefully, Mr. Stettner's next writing effort will find something more credible to wrap the plot around.  "},{"Title":"WORTH WATCHING BUT,","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the many and various comments about this film indicate that it mostly found an audience of Stockard Channing fans and 'understanding feminists'. Channing is excellent as the successful business woman who has made it to the top in a man's world but finds a 'little something' missing from that success. Kind of a worn out premise but well done nevertheless. A little more inscrutable is the Chiles character whose motives we will never know. Her deceitful bitterness is undiscoverable because of the her character's mystery. Was she really raped by our good looking but unpersonable simp or was that something she imagined from her 'nonfiction' writing? The movie went wrong by simply not developing who she was and just hints at an unexplained complexity. Worth watching for the performances but not worth thinking too much about because the screenwriter never really tries to go above mere generalizations. "}{"Title":"Has everyone missed the point?","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who has ever travelled on business across the US will recognise the sterility of the chic market tested bedrooms at the local executive business hotel and the sparklingly clean and glass midwestern airport. There are so many subtle facets to this film that its impossible to list them all - the fact the architecture of the airport and the hotel blend into one to exacerbate the feeling of constantly being on a business trip, the complete insecurity of the modern day executive who wavers from feeling she is on the verge of being dismissed to being promoted to CEO...there are so many things that resonate with modern day business in the US. Foremost this film is about women - the contrast between the ive beaten men at their own game and men have beaten me into the ground are devastatingly exposed through the conclusion that the end result has not been disimilar between the two paths.  I could go on and on. The action is secondary to the expose. Get a refund from Blockbuster if you must.  The next time stick to Terminator V.        "},{"Title":"Wouldn't have been a good movie without Channing","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rated this film a little higher than it warrants simply because Stockard Channing was in it. She has always been so engaging as an actress and this time was no different. Supports what I have always believed... the most enduring of actors/actresses come from the stage (or do stage performances). "},{"Title":"Much better than the reviews would suggest!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My wife and I both enjoyed this movie very much, and our reaction to it was quite different from the ones in some reviews. I felt that the plot twists were entirely believable, and not so extreme as was suggested by others. Stockard Channing gave what may well be the best performance of her career, and Julia Stiles was also very convincing as the younger mirror image of her would be mentor/protege/master/slave. "},{"Title":"Classic drama","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (6/10) Starts very promisingly. Great sweeping modern architecture are impressive camera work are a great medium for a tale of corporate ladder climbing and the stresses and tribulations that gives - admirably depicted by Stockard Channing's character. We also see the young Julia Stiles tackling a more substantial role than she had in Save the Last Dance and the swathe of teen comedies like 10 Things I Hate About You that she is better known for. What follows is quite a powerful drama that might work well on the stage, yet the power plays of the two women and the struggles with events with weak or despicable men fail to realise the philosophical questions about gender one might have hoped the film would tackle. "},{"Title":"See this film for its acting and its chilling post-modern treatment of business, women, and strangers.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Don't cross the characters played by Stockard Channing and Julia Stiles in `The Business if Strangers.'  If you do, you'll think the male revenge film `In the Company of Men' to be a modest complaint about the battle of the sexes.  `Business' is a raw polemic about corporate women treated ill by men in and out of the boardroom.Businesswoman Channing has been made CEO and by chance shares an evening with manipulative temp Stiles. The story blisters with possibilities as the two women square off against each other about career choices and caring.  Only with the introduction of a male object of their scorn does the plot devolve from philosophy to common crime. The magic goes at that point for me-I was happy until then to be privy to the anger and angst of these women toward corporate ceilings and predatory males. These two actresses are superb at being bitchy and seductive to each other as well as their enemies. A telling moment occurs when Channing offers to buy Stiles a drink Stiles orders a double of a $20 cognac; Channing's ordering the same promises a very tough evening with two tough ladies.`The Business of Strangers' takes Sigourney Weaver and Melanie Griffith from `Working Girl,' puts a few drinks in them, and transforms them from Mike Nichols' sparring rivals to cruel partners in crimes against humanity, the other half of humanity to be exact.   Writer/director Patrick Stettner said he wanted to show female execs'  `personal and psychological trials.' He accomplishes his goal.See this film for its acting and its chilling post-modern treatment of business, women, and strangers.       "},{"Title":"A Struggle For Ultimate Control - Stockard, Julia or the Audience?","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this excellent movie yesterday, which features StockardChanning in the lead role of Julie Styron. The movie highlights thestruggle for power between Styron and Paula Murphy (Julia Stiles).As characters, each represent a lifestyle that exist in polaropposite worlds. Styron is a career-oriented, accomplishedwoman having sacrificed her marriage, family life, sense of selfand a life of balance for success, prosperity and recognition.Murphy is an uninterested assistant working for Styron's company,who approaches the variety of life in hopes every encounter will bechalked-up as experience that will one day expand her horizons,therefore bringing success, prosperity and recognition as a greatwriter. Throughout the movie, the two struggle for control over theimmediate social situation. Will Styron really trust Murphy when itcomes to her career for which she has sacrificed so much ofherself? And will Murphy trust Styron will keep her word for a lifeshe has little invested in? The two play off each other wonderfullywhile developing a shaky trust. They also play off the audience,building the same shaky trust with you, the viewer. Observerbecomes participate as you question which character you shouldalign your allegiance with. The movie concludes with threepossible endings, and leaves you wondering who succeded in thestruggle for ultimate control. This makes-you-think film has me pondering, on a deeper level,the role power plays in our society. More important than money orsocial status is power, who is in control of it, and who can wield itto their best advantage. Simply, if you have power, then you otherintrisic qualities are of little consequence. If you have a clearunderstanding of power and its fragile relation to others, thennothing will stand in your way. This movie clearly illustrates thatdynamic.  "},{"Title":"Two fine performances anchor this film","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Business of Strangers, the official selection at the Sundance film festival of 2001, is a well written and mostly well staged drama/character study with a business woman (Stockard Channing) who has just been promoted to CEO of the company which she was just fired from and her creative assistant (Julia Stiles).  They are held up at an airport hotel during a storm and confide in each other things here and there, until a corporate head-hunter comes in the scene who raped one of Stiles' college friends.  Then the plot unfolds, though rather quickly since it takes place in the span of a night.  Nothing great (why it was the official selection at Sundance and at Toronto is beyond me), but still an interesting portrait of women in the business world and how they handle things.  The ending is questionable though (is the headhunter lying or is Stiles, you decide).  B+ "},{"Title":"Tight suspense, beautifully simple.","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Saw this film last night and was impressed by the believability of the characters and situation. Frequently suspense movies go over the top in order to get just one more twist out of the plot but this one keeps it simple and taut. The story reminded me of Patricia Highsmith at her best, and the film-making was reminiscent of Ice Storm in its moodiness of modern American life. A very good performance by Stockard Channing. "},{"Title":"Hot-flash monologue replaces LaButean butt-piracy soliloquy!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You have to admit it the writer-director Patrick Stettner (look at the photo of him sweatily regarding his creation on the IMDB BUSINESS OF STRANGERS site) touches on a bit of metatext as queasily fascinating as all the manipulation of the actors' previous-movie baggage in VANILLA SKY. Stockard Channing plays a businesswoman, a hustler and seller and marketer of some kind, who's feeling her age and thinks she might be getting the ax. (Channing, in her late fifties, seems to be playing late-forties, maybe fifty.) Julia Stiles plays a privileged young temp whose pleasure is teasing and torturing Channing's Ms. Powerful with her youth, her superior desirability, her sexy carefreeness, and her air of giddy entitlement. The nubile dominatrix tortures the baby boomer with her own stretch marks and wrinkle cream. For intellectual male heterosexual audiences, this stuff is the equivalent of Howard Stern playing Lesbian Butt Bongos.Stettner rips off Neil LaBute's IN THE COMPANY OF MEN hook, line and sinker--only his version might be called In the Company of Tough, Butt-Kicking Women Who Just Might Be in the Mood for Their  First Taste of Spicy Tuna Roll. He even rips off LaBute's long, squinch-inducing monologue delivered in a sauna--only, in YOUR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS it was Jason Patric describing an adolescent anal rape, and here it's Channing detailing the first flicker of menopause leaping up during a Packers game.(Channing seems to see her dark-horse Oscar nod in sight before you can say Go Cheeseheads!) The icky subtext of the movie is that of a hot, generation-y actress playing power games with a better, much older actress who spends most of her days on the Lifetime Channel--and if I wanted to be made that squeamish, I'd go read a Bruce Wagner novel. And Stettner's frigid, Kubrickian visuals (by way of LaBute), and clunky, stagy dramaturgy grate. Still and all, Channing, a beautiful, lyrical actress unsuited to this Mamet-with-breasts stuff, finds a tricky, filigreed, almost silly delicacy between the lines, and Stiles seems to have fun playing what we all secretly suspect she is a harsh, unplayful, control-freaky Jodie Foster-in-training, i.e., the lost twin sister of Claire Danes. "},{"Title":"IN THE COMPANY OF WOMEN","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE BUSINESS OF STRANGERS (2001) **1/2 Stockard Channing, Julia Stiles, Frederick Weller.  In the Company of Men with a sex change could've been the pitch for this depiction of the modern day woman as successful in business and not quite so elsewhere with Channing as an exec who finds herself in a precarious situation with Stiles' younger associate and some intriguing sexual politics in general.  The film does lack some bite but gives a nice showcase to display Channing's gift as a versatile actress and Stiles gives some surprises to her visage. (Dir Patrick Stettner)  "}{"Title":"Could have been an interestng film.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a very interesting film.   Stockard Channing turns in her usual phenomenal performance, but even her formidable skills can't save this one.   It begins as a fascinating character study of a woman at the top (Channing) with very little to show for it, and had it remained Channing's story, it might have worked.   However, the very forced introduction of a vaguely threatening younger woman takes the script into an plot filled with implausible choices and sometimes laughable dialogue - at the very moments when it should be most dramatic.  This film could have seethed with undercurrents and subtle sexual tension.  Instead, we're hit over the head repeatedly with tension so overt it renders any chemistry between the two actresses absolutely lifeless.   Too bad - this film could've had a good thing going.  "},{"Title":"So women can act as stupid as men, cinematically?  YAY!","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If this is supposed to be a turn on the usual men-exploiting-women movie, then congrats to all concerned, its great to know that the playing field is now equal.It started off great, it really did.  The cinematography is remarkable and I am assuming there was not a gigantic budget, but you'd never know it by what is onscreen - the 'look' of the movie is also terrific.  It has a certain feel to it - I give it that much credit gladly.But then you get to the characters and the screenplay and the actual words that are said and it all goes into the garbage can very fast.  I didn't buy either womans' motivation for anything. Is the woman Julia Stiles plays a psychopath, a liar, a spoiled brat or just bored?  Is the woman Stockard Channing plays an idiot, a moron or just bored?  For Stiles to accuse Frederick Weller of rape/sexual abuse just for the fun of it is an insult to women and men worldwide who have actually suffered such abuse.I like Weller and watched this originally to see him.  I watched it again to make sure I hated it as much as I did the first time, and I did.  3/10 and that's generous on my part.  "},{"Title":"Interesting film, not everyone will enjoy it.","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Having formerly been a road warrior, this film strikes a nerve depicting business travelers getting stranded in a hotel just one more night after a flight is cancelled. Stockard Channing is one of my favorite mature actresses, and Julia Stiles is one of the better young actresses. Angry executive (Channing) does a major put-down of the young tech person (Stiles) who was late for an important presentation (delayed flight) and leaves her standing at the hotel as her ride takes off, and the rest of the film is Stiles' character getting revenge.SPOILERS ahead - When they meet up again at the hotel, after Channing finds out she has just been promoted to CEO instead of being fired, she is contrite and buys the younger woman a drink. Their apparent bond gets closer and closer, until Stiles' character convinces the new CEO that the head-hunter friend once raped Stiles' best friend 4 years ago in Boston while he was in graduate school. He later comes to the hotel room, is lured to stay, drugged, placed in a part of the hotel under remodeling, and left, with rapist and other things written on him. Next morning, airport waiting area, Stiles is off by herself, music via headphones, CEO asks head-hunter, Where did you go to graduate school?  Ohio.  Ever been in Boston? No. I hear that's a real party town, but I've never been there. He was not a rapist after all, just a horny guy, the young tech person had gotten her revenge on the CEO for dissing her. "},{"Title":"Well-acted, interesting but with two big problems","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the movie is interesting and often the dialogue is riveting. Channing's acting is extraordinary - her character is fascinating - and as we learn late in the movie, NOT as Stiles wrongly suspects, a pushover. I find intriguing the underlying idea for the movie. I hope the moviemaker makes many more. **** SPOILERS **** However, I had several problems with the movie. I. The immediately review by another middle aged man (like myself!) cited my first reaction to this movie - in almost exactly the same words I was to use. I found VERY hard to believe that Channing's character would find this utter brat (evident within moments of their departure from the conference room) someone to spend any time with. Sure, she's lonely; sure she wants to celebrate; sure she's getting drunk; she's far away from home; sure she feels guilty - but I still don't buy it. Stiles's character is truly deeply hateful, a cretin out to soak Channing's character with her desire for champagne from the first moment we see her in the bar. Stiles is completely and utterly obnoxious - a pig - and no one would want to be in her company more than necessary. II. Moreover, as the preceding reviewer stated, Channing's tough well-travelled character would never simply take on face value some story from a tattooed kid, speaking of a major felony committed by someone Channing had known a long time - without any evidence whatever. Presumably nothing this fellow had ever done had caused Channing to distrust him.Is it the moviemaker's withering criticism of feminism that it so distorts one's judgment that one swallows whole anything said by a drunk tattooed obnoxious stranger? III. It also seems extraordinary that Channing would be putty in this girl's hands - through much of the movie, every suggestion is met with total compliance. Why? I am single, middle aged, and have been on many business trips - it's unimaginable that I'd be knocking back drinks in my room on a business trip with some tattooed 23 year old stranger who had been late to the meeting that day -and was asking to borrow my bathing suit.IV. As another reviewer mentioned, why did Stiles do ANY of this? We are given no reason except that she is BAD. She wants to humiliate people - women as well as men - and that's that. Well, I suppose mystery is better than a too facile explanation - but it is still a bit strange that we are given no hint of why someone would act this horribly. V. Incidentally, some reviews are stating that the movie leaves it ambiguous whether there had been any rape by the recruiter. This is false. There is no doubt whatever that no rape occurred. Why else would the recruiter lie about never having been to Boston, never having gone to grad school there, etc.? Unfortunately for the movie, this is presented as a surprise -when in fact a viewer realizes this within a few minutes of it the rape allegation being made - certainly by the time the man is forced to watch pornographic videos.***SPOILERS END **** All that said, I found this movie interesting and the dialogue well-written. Stockard Channing was robbed in not being nominated - let alone not winning an Oscar over Julia Roberts as Erin Brockavich! "},{"Title":"Women in the Workplace","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The fearfulness of Channing's Julie Styron seemed unprecedented, and when we witnessed her with clients, the decision to take her forward was laughable. Was she as good as she seemed, or was she just playing the corporate field to better her advantage? The other question that came to mind was her coincidental neurosis dealing with the sporadic meeting with her boss. There was nothing, outside of moving the plot forward, which would have indicated these sudden laps of shame in her profession. The drop-in of Julia Styles suddenly meeting in the same business setting (having never met before), missing a plane together, and coincidentally ending up at the same bar sharing drinks and eventually inner secrets, just flabbergasted me. Why would these two ever meet up in a typical setting? While I don't want to think that this was just a film about the imagination of Channing, it did make you question and use the word why. Typically I like this mind-boggling element in films, but in Business of Strangers, it just didn't work. There was no tell in this film, and that tugged at me the wrong way in this film. The eerie patience that was demanded of the viewer left us with no moment of satisfaction. There was quite a bit of wait, but no payoff at the end. On one hand we have a very self-centered woman, career bent, but possibly not happy with her choices, and yet on the other we have a care-free young lady, experimental in nature, ready to change the world one person at a time. It seemed too forced, too stereotypical &#150; too manipulative. I needed more similarities; I needed more shock to really bring these two strangers together. This tried to be a darker rendition of The Odd Couple with drinking, rape, and random revenge. Force enough onto a character (or characters), the audience begins to believe that it is a Hollywood feature, and you meaning imperatively finds itself lost in the trenches.Acting. In Business of Strangers it wasn't bad, but it wasn't the greatest that I have seen of Stiles or Channing. Their chemistry was decent, but it didn't compare to that of those characters in Tape or Company of Men. This was obviously a stage film, meaning that it was a small play that had the unique opportunity to see the other side of a film camera. It was a boring premise, which is one reason I feel so fooled by this film, which was followed up by my second pet peeve of this film, it never tackled any real issues. Who were these two characters that we so dutifully were thrust into their lives? What makes them tick? What is their past? What is their future? Most importantly, at least with this film, what makes them connect? Unlike other films brought from the stage, Business of Strangers answers none of the above. Perhaps it is my male view on a very personal female film, but this was released to general audiences, so the appeal had to be broad. It was not emotional, it was not sad, nor was it victorious at the end. While I do not think rape is a minute problem in America, I do feel that I needed more with Channing and Stiles. Was she lying about the incident? Was she just trying to get Channing to release something from within? I wanted answers, I was pining inside for them, but the never arrived. Unlike Shape of Things, there was just something missing. It was as if a big chunk of the film was misplaced. Fred Weller did a decent job, but his motive was missing.Director Stettner did his job by bringing the characters together in, albeit, random events. He set the stage with surprisingly the darkest of corners and hidden hotel rooms. There was even a moment of unneeded tension in a scene (while I felt it wasn't needed) that was done with some bit of grace, but he continued to forget the element mentioned above &#133; motive. There was no reason to answer the question why, when our characters were taking unmotivated photographs, when they were about to commit murder, or when they were talking to each other like they had known each other for years. There was no reason for director Stettner to get us from point A to point B, so in my opinion, he moved the action along through a series for unconnected points. Sure, the acting was meaty, but the words that they spoke merely were attached to a script which eventually had to have and ending. For a little over and hour, I watched good actors read through a bad script. Again, if there was more creativity in the motion of Stettner's work, then maybe I would have felt better by the ending, but I wasn't sitting on the edge of my seat, the characters didn't have me questioning the validity of my own life, nor was I ready to gush Niagara Falls over the body of work. By the end, I felt bland, as if I just watched a feminist remake of In the Company of Men or Tape.Overall, I wish I could say that I can suggest this film, but I cannot. The acting, with enough said above, you should realize that these are two great actors working through an abominable script. The story was pieced together probably overnight without much thought going into the entire process. It was dark, but the tones were miscommunicated as we tried to grapple with the idea that these two people had never met before but spoke as if they were best friends. Coupled with dialog that would make kindergarteners chuckle, Business of Strangers was a film packed with missed possibilities. If you are looking for either a redemption film or a film about coping with your tough job, may I suggest anything outside of this film. Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"A shallow film with shallow characters played by overqualified actresses","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have always liked Stockard Channing, and recently have come to respect Julia Stiles and her choice of roles a great deal. So I was expecting a highly poignant movie here; a deep character study. I didn't get that. These characters, being from the corporate world, are shallow and self-centered, and Stiles' character is distinctly unlikeable. On the other hand, it does show just what such people are like, and how the events depicted here are par for the course in that world.I disagree with a previous poster who said that Nick was the one character to come out of this story unscathed and with his innocence intact. Rather, his lack of a reaction to what they did to him demonstrates that this kind of thing is pretty much business as usual for him. He may have raped someone, and he isn't even shaken up about it. Shows what kind of a hardened, unscrupulous person life in the corporate stratosphere has made him. He's not exactly an angel. Slippery as an eel indeed.Also, the lesbian themes that seem to be so played up in the hype and discussion of this movie are hardly even there. There are some instances of innuendo, but nothing material. Which I'm not complaining about, I'm just saying it. If you watch this movie for the sake of that (which I didn't), you'll be let down.As it was, I was let down anyway, as the movie didn't really go anywhere or resolve anything.My rating 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies of all time.","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You get bad movies, like Johnny Mnemonic, which nobody in all seriousness is ever going to take seriously.What makes a movie like Business of Strangers worse, is that people actually do take this piece of pretentious drivel seriously.So what does this movie have going for itself?The deep myriads of complexities and frustrations of corporate women living in a man's world. The delicate nuances of female relationships. Serious undertones of oppression and rape.All sounds pretty good. Unfortunately this is all irrelevant. This is because the acting is so flat, the script so vague, the directing so lame, the backdrop so bleak, the context so contrived that the viewer is left thoroughly uncaptivated after approximately 10 minutes.To sit through the entirety of this movie is an exercise in sheer willpower.Julia Stiles's performance is so pathetically one dimensional (usual teen angst crap that she always does, eg 10 things, Save the last dance, ad nauseous). I vow never to watch another Julia Stiles movie again. As for Stockard Channing, I like her in West Wing but dunno... this movie just sucked so much that she just gets brought down with it.How can people actually compare this with In the company of men on an EQUAL footing? I'd like to point out the fundamental difference between the two movies. ITCOF is actually good, while TBUS is absolute drivel.Do yourself a favour and steer clear of this painfully painfully bad experience.In case you did have the complete and utter misfortune to watch TBUS, take consolation and solace from this comment that you are not alone.  "},{"Title":"Wasting Stockards Talent.","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Watched this movie waiting for the supposed link between the two female characters as stated on the dvd case.  What link?  Wacko meets successfully burned out CEO?  Can't believe this was even made into a movie.  Who would pay for this kind of script.  Take the elevator lesbo scene and the lost my shorts in the pool scene and put it into another movie.  Other than that, the entire movie was just kind of sucky.  There were so many opportunities to make this into a movie that could have been made into some kind of story with some appeal.  The character played by Julia Stiles could have been in cahoots with someone to overthrow Sockards new CEO position.  Or she could have just starting killing off everyone one by one.  I'm so glad they could write on each other with magic markers and this CEO just realized how unhappy she is.  Now give me some hormone replacement therapy and let's watch a movie that I could recommend for someone to watch. "},{"Title":"Not exactly Thelma and Louise","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stockard Channing balances toughness and vulnerability in this intimate glimpse of how deception digs its hooks into a hard-driving corporate executive  who meets a cool bohemian (Julia Stiles) with a plan and decides to go along for the ride.There's an uneasy and unconvincing bonding between the two - not the buddy kind of Thelma and Louise - that puts this story on edge. Channing brings as much life to her character as possible, yet the path she follows doesn't ring true. While she has reached a pinnacle in her career that leads to the inevitable, What now? question, her falling in with the Stiles character doesn't make a good enough answer.It could be the basic incongruity of this camaraderie, though, that makes it a viable thriller. I wanted to yell, No, don't do it! to each of the main characters at various times. And I felt that sense of dread when things started the inevitable downward spiral from bad to worse.These bad-to-worse actions of the two main characters can elicit a squirmy discomfort on the part of the viewer. Sometimes the movie's just too hard to watch. Yes, there's tension and excitement. But there's also a little too much mean-spirited violent behavior (not necessarily raw violence) that makes for difficult viewing.The movie feels like a stage play, demanding that the dialog carry the story. Unfortunately, it lacks wit and compassion, and the thin plot and weak resolution don't help out any. The best part is Channing. 6 stars.  "},{"Title":"Too simplistic and not edgy enough RATE 5","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You should be able to see the ending coming a mile away. You know exactly the big reveal as soon as the story unfolds.  It could've been interesting if something REAL edgy happens, but they might as well have a sing-along for the climax.  Stockard Channing plays a smart, hard-nose executive, but couldn't ask the right questions to the guy?  She's smart enough to run a multi-million dollar company, but so stupid she buys into the story.It's too bad. It has a good premise. "}{"Title":"Company of Men Rip-Off","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  How's this for a plot  Two people traveling on business conspire to screw over a member of the opposite sex citing it as retaliation against wrongs committed against themselves.  During the course of the 'punishment' the first conspirator is irreparably harmed and it is discovered that the other was really endeavoring to hurt the first.Sound familiar?It wasn't 'The Business of Strangers'.  It was 'In the Company of Men.' Check it out.  It was much better and Eckhart has rocked in everything since 'Double Jeopardy.' "},{"Title":"The Disconnected","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.So much of life consists of invisible missed opportunities. Usually, they are invisible because what we see appears so competent that it seems only natural that it be as it is.This is such an opportunity. Our two characters here are presented competently. Everything else in the project is acceptable. It has a sort of `People magazine' edge to it.But I think the basic material had a much greater potential which was avoided by a conspiracy of media mediocrity. This is a case, I think, where the writing of the writer/director is much much stronger than his direction.The screenplay is cleverly in two parts. The first establishes Channing's character as someone living in an exile of sorts -- someone who only gets limited information about the real world, about what is happening to her. She energetically fills in the details. Obviously she usually does so correctly because she is a senior executive. Her exile is in an abstract world of airports and hotels, no one place where reality can penetrate. This first part of the story shows us how she can fool herself into a false reality.The second part of the script repeats this. Again she is encountered with partial information and creates her own world, only this time the weakness is being exploited for the only reason that it can be.What's required here is that basic feel of exile, and the great effort one must expend to create one's own world which they carry with themselves. A lovely opportunity exists here, because that's what we all do, confabulate our world within the vacuum of our travels based on random messages from others. What's also required is the dramatic display of how difficult that is. Channing may be a veteran, but she sure misses the boat on this.What we could have had was the best elements of `The House of Yes,' and `Hurlyburly.' What we get is tepid walkthrough.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"i want my money back","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  there is no beginning, middle or end to this film.  i have never felt abused by the film industry that someone has actually taken my money with the trust that there is some sort of story here.  no conflict, no climax, no resolution, no story.  civilisation is truly about to collapse if the producers of this world think we're stupid enough to accept garbage like this just so we can throw another dvd in the player and sit on our fat asses eating nachos.  please, don't rent this, just move on to anything else that's ever been filmed. "},{"Title":"It turns a cold shoulder to its audience, leaving me slightly put off","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Business of Strangers keeps orbital characters underdeveloped from the central character's (Julie's) standpoint so that these acquaintances never feel more familiar than strangers.Julie(Stockard Channing)is an insecure corporate climber and new CEO, made paranoid by the singular emphasis she has put on career advancement. Paula (Julia Stiles) is the brash young ingenue seeking direction, yet ever-so-willing to demonstrate her own manipulative power over others. Paula's power resides in her feminine wiles and disregard for convention while Julie's power resides in her position atop the corporate ladder achieved by virtue of a cutthroat mentality.Julie and Paula treat each other like means to an end while treating others like mere playthings...*Spoiler*...Paula is Julie's expendable underling and later her companion to celebrate the big promotion with; it is implied that Julie is the subject of ambitious writer Paula's next non-fiction work. Paula says she likes the messiness of real life; she manipulates Julie into providing a more salacious story. Julie and Paula do some wicked strange things, and in so doing treat corporate headhunter Nick Harris like a worthless object. TBOS leaves both of their motives vague. Presumably, Julie acts because she just gets carried away as Paula manipulates her. But what of Paula's motive? Is she acting for retribution or simply for the thrill of it? *Spoiler end*TBOS doesn't let the audience in on the secretive business of these stranger's innermost desires (with the exception of Julie). Instead we are given a look behind closed doors in a business traveler's world of cancelled flights and one-night hotel stays. What goes on between strangers is disturbing enough to elicit our concern, but the audience never gets to find out what goes on inside the strangers' heads.I liked TBOS for making me think, but it left me with an empty feeling to be given so little insight into the characters. Slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Just another pointless movie","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the movies where, when it's all over, you wondered why you just wasted the last 2 hours. Someone seemed to be trying to make a point, but it was certainly lost on me. Channing did an OK job, but the material is so thin, she certainly didn't excel. Pass this turkey up. "},{"Title":"Repeat Business.","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What do you have when you copy the opening titles from The Ice Storm, the background music from American Beauty, and various plot elements from Bound, Swimming With Sharks, Tape, In the Company of Men, and Glengarry Glen Ross? You have The Business of Strangers, a film completely devoid of original ideas from writer/director Patrick Stettner. If you've never seen the former films, you may be impressed by this ridiculous potboiler. If you've never seen the former films, you should, because they are all expert, original visions from top-level filmmakers. As Stettner pulls out each cliche from his grab bag, all you can do is roll your eyes - even a hackneyed shot like office windows looking like prison bars is given full commitment, as if it hadn't been seen dozens of times since the '60s. Perhaps Stettner has talent. Hopefully next time he'll write about something from within himself, and be a true artist.  And maybe not. "},{"Title":"A downhill ride from start to finish","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Business of Strangers is a claustrophobic psychodrama which is all about Channing and Stiles as a pair of females at different ends of the corporate ladder spending a night in a hotel while on business travel exchanging thoughts, perspectives, opinions, etc. and slowly discovering the unpleasant truth of each other. The film is a slick shoot which begins fleshing out the characters in fine style with Channing carrying the moment and carefully works its way downhill to a conclusion which is little more than so much gratuitous nonsense. Passable stuff best saved for a free watch on the little screen. (C-) "},{"Title":"This is a strange film","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not sure about this one.  I saw it at the weekend after reading the reviews and the movie was not what I expected.It could have been better but it could have been worse.  Stockard Channing is fantastic in this film and probably the only reason to watch it. This film looks like it belongs on stage and not on the big screen.  There were so many issues that the film brings up but it never really explores these issues fully.  It's a pity because the performances from the two leads are so strong that I want to like the film.  And yet, I can't say that I would recommend this movie.If you want to see it, wait till it's out on video. "},{"Title":"disappointing, lame & preposterous","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Given the reviews I read of this, I was looking forward to an intelligent depiction of generational conflicts in the business world featuring the most charming Stockard Channing.  She doesn't disappoint, but this movie has an unbelievable plot device that is quite preposterous given the nature of the characters involved.  As it unfolded, I kept muttering, No way, they're not going to do this...', but yeah, they did.  There was potential for something really interesting here, but it devolved into something quite lame. "},{"Title":"Well Acted, but Contrived and Predictable.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stettner offers a microcosm of the modern business world in his first full length film, The Business of Strangers.  Stockard Channing plays Julie, a professional so devouted to her career she has neglect virtually every other aspect of her life.  She suspects she might be fired soon, and meets with an employment headhunter, Nick (Fred Weller).  Julia Stiles is Paula (at least that's the name she provides), Julie's young, impetuous, obviously unstable assistant.  After an acrimonious initial meeting, the two serendipidously meet in a hotel bar and become friends (Julie sees Paul as herself 20 years ago).  It turns out Julie has been promoted, not fired, and Julie and Paula decide to live it up in the bar.  During the party, Nick shows up (his flight was cancelled).  Later, Paula tells Julie she knew Nick in college, and he committed an atrocity against her best friend.  Later, when Nick shows up at Julie's room, the two women decide to get even.(WARNING  Some spoilers ahead).From the time Julie, Paula, and Nick meet at the bar the film is very predictable and staged.  It's obvious from the time her character is introduced that Paula is unstable and duplicitous (she's hostile to virtually everyone she encounters).  It's unreasonable to think a shrewd businesswoman like Julie wouldn't see through Paula's guise, and even more inconceivable she would risk her career to abet Paula in her malicious treatment of Nick (what they do is felonious).After Julie and Paul part ways (neither one too worse for wear), Julie reconsiders her life decisions and seems to re-evaluate her priorities.  This gesture by Stettner, while earnest, isn't the epiphany he seems to think it is, and in fact it's obvious from early on that Julie will realize this.  The Business of Strangers is one of those films that seems tailored for critics, with little appeal for anyone else  Yes, the acting is first rate and the deliberately antiseptic direction is an effective, somber indictment of the modern business world.  But, anyone who has seen more than a few films knows exactly where this one is headed after the first 30 minutes.  Ultimately, The Business of Strangers is just an exercise for Channing, Stiles, and director Stettner.   "}{"Title":"Flawed and cliched","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is built upon a deeply stereotypical view of women in business, i.e. that they have no family, friends, etc -- in other words, that for a woman to reach the point of being a CEO, she must sacrifice all other personal happiness for her job. This may have been true in 1975, but it's not so true today.Furthermore, if Stockard Channing's character has reached a pinnacle of her career to become a CEO, it's absolutely unbelievable that she would behave in the way that writer/director Stettner presents her.In a Los Angeles times review of this film, it's pointed out that Stettner learned about the business world through working as an office temp. Clearly, that didn't give him enough insight into how real businesspeople behave. He obviously relies on outdated information about women in business, and it's clear he hadn't spent much time with real software company CEOs -- but I guess the office temps wouldn't do that, would they?Performances are good, and the technical aspects of the film are good. But as a story, it completely lacks credibility. Hard to believe this thing even found distribution... "},{"Title":"one for the gender studies class only?","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this as a companion to 'In the Company of Men' and because i ahem have (or had) a thing for Julia Stiles. Not much to say, because not much happens; the whole film could have been 15 minutes of a better movie. Some of the dialogue between the two women leads is the worst case of 'hey look, it's an actor reading from a sheet' i can remember seeing since drama classes in school (owch). As always in these situations it's hard to say how much is the script's fault - but either way the audience is getting the short end. The actors (i use the term for both sexes - geddit, it's a film about... n/m) look awkward, like they didn't know where to stand - weak direction maybe? Either way, this was even more unsatisfying (and unrealistic of course) to me than 'In the Company of Men'. Perhaps gender issues just bore me, so i wasn't the target audience... still, beware!If i can refer to other users' comments - i'm baffled by the references to great acting and great script.. i watched the film before reading any reviews, and noticed serious problems in the acting and in the script, repetition of cliche phrases (referring to drink as poison, 'f**k off' etc.)Stiles is quite good at crying though. Yeah, it should have been a play, which would also have had the bonus that i wouldn't have seen it p "},{"Title":"More Critically Acclaimed Garbage","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Two women at different rungs on the corporate ladder meet on a business trip and then proceed to bore you to death.This movie is supposed to be a study in control.  Julia Stiles (the ivy-league brat and aspiring writer forced to work an IT job in order to pay the bills) manipulates Stockard Channing (the community college grad and devoted career woman recently promoted to CEO of her company) into taking part in what we are supposed to believe is some revenge scheme against a man who sexually assaulted Stiles' friend.Except that through the course of this tedious film, we discover that it was really Stiles who was assaulted...no, wait actually, it turns out that Stiles doesn't even know this guy.How ironic.  How curious that after the whole ordeal (which eventually turns criminal), Stockard Channing seems amused that she has been so cleverly manipulated.  How totally ingenious.Except that we never really get to know Stiles' character.  We do get some insight into Channing's fiercely-determined, staggeringly-insecure CEO, but none into the enigmatic malcontent who is the movie's protagonist.Sure, not everything in life can be neatly tied up in two hours, but not everything in life deserves to be put on cellulose either.  This was just a bad film.At some point I will learn to decode the critics' reviews in order to identify these stinkers before I watch them. This particular offering was, according to one IMDB reviewer, filmed in just 23 days.  Maybe they should have taken a little longer. More than a study in control, this movie is a study in what people will swallow as art.I give it a 2, because Stockard Channing does a reasonable job with her role. "},{"Title":"One of the WORST movies I have ever seen!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The language is putrid, the acting is worse, and the ending will leave you saying what in the world was that all about!  After watching this movie, I wanted to call Blockbuster and demand my money back for renting such a bad flick.  What a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Bad story, bad movie.","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another independent film director trying to scream at the world how artistic he is by accepting a vapid script. In a review I read of this movie, Stiles' character was described as a fragile wall flower who shows her true colors towards the end of the movie. This could not be farther from the truth. Even in the beginning scenes one can get the feeling of utter angst, and self-loathing steaming off Paula. To when you see her waiting in the bar, and a man comes to talk to her, with Paula telling him to f*ck off. Real fragile there, right? Her character completely gives off the airs of a 20-something nobody stemming from a rich family who has nothing to do but mess with peoples lives, and act vindictively. This by far overshadowed what could have been an amazing performance by Channing. The story itself was utterly vague, a tactic used by many independent film makers in order to supposedly let the viewer decide for themselves what is really going on behind the scenes. In the end it came out being just so vague that I had all together absolutely no clue as to the intents of the other. I think the whole black mail thing towards the end could have been more developed, whereas instead it came out as an empty threat. In the end I only found myself laughing at Paula's feeble attempts at seeming tough, and hardened by the world, as well as the men in it. To me, this film was just another one that the critics eat up because of its supposed artistry while holding no form, or poise at all. I give it a strong (D-)  "},{"Title":"A strange business","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Watch the first fifteen minutes for Stockard Channing's subtle but amazing portrayal of a woman alone at the top and afraid of tumbling; strong and intelligent but uncertain of her choices and seemingly alone in the world but for her therapist, secretary, and other employees, she cannot tell success from disaster. Clever editing keeps us in the dark, too, and her promotion is at first easily mistaken for a lover's rupture. The pleasure of her good fortune is soured when we realise that she has no lover, just a job.The quality of the plot plummets inexplicably with the arrival of Julia Stiles' character, and the quality of the acting plummets just as violently with the arrival of Julia Stiles. It's not entirely her fault she gets nothing but ridiculous lines. The story that ensues is a betrayal of the movie's first quarter-hour there is no real story to speak of, just a series of picaresque moments, and the gentle but invasive probing of character that was promised is dismissed in favour of a meaningless attack on someone's life. Murder, especially of the wanton variety, is the thing Hollywood uses to give a film a sense of intellectual depth when it has none; ironically, it is fast becoming the thing independents use when they are scared of being thought dull and overly-intellectual. Sadly, it didn't improve this film. "},{"Title":"Very Poor For An Independent Film","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't very impressed with The Business of Strangers.  It was far from perfection.  This film seemed like it would be better suited as a short film on late night cable.  It was not worth the four dollars I paid to rent it and I am glad I did not pay eight dollars to see it at the theater.The only positive things I can say about this film is that it has occasional humor, such as the humorous dialogue between Julia Stiles and Stockard Channing in the elevator, as they are surrounded by a bunch of men. Another humorous element is how the director tries to make Stockard Channing appear sexy, especially next to the young, attractive Julia Stiles, but Channing isn't sexy at all.As for the negative elements, the music tries to be the musical score from American Beauty but fails miserably.  The story is pretty flat and very predictable.  It ends quite quickly as well, which is a relief, but at the same time, leaves many things unanswered.While I am a big fan of independent films, The Business of Strangers is one to be avoided.  It seems like very little work went into it and very little came out of it.One out of five stars! "},{"Title":"Short Shortcut","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A small film (cast of 3), starts out intriquingly enough, capturing        corporate culture, a female exec. out on the road, in airports, in        hotels, on the cell, paranoid about losing her job. But things turn        south quick when they dope the head hunter, another shocking plot        twist (when will we see the end of them?). Why would a CEO risk her        career and jail-time by getting drunk and cavorting with a total        stranger, an altie gurl with obvious issues, an obviously        unstable, man-hating dike? Is this the only way to deal with        nastiness, by inventing a bit of the nasty ourselves? (They should        have been just grateful the head hunter didn't stop breathing, with        all that Valium and alcohol in him.) O, the things we resort to,        the shapes we twist ourselves into, to get a message in edgewise,        out in the public domain, these days of heavy American        self-censorship. Why is everyone whispering on The West Wing? "}]