[{"Title":"I'm Shocked This Turned Out So Good!","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"64 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The only way I gave this a look was that someone loaned it to me for free. I now own it! This looked like it would be a stupid movie, and it some scenes it certainly was, but it was so entertaining that I know I will watch this a number of times.This is a 1950s-type sci-fi flick with modern-day special effects. In fact, if you liked Them! you'll get a big kick of out of this film. The difference is the much- better special-effects but some low-grade attitudes and some profanity. The characters are dumb but they were dumb in the '50s, too.The story starts off a bit slow but once the overgrown spiders emerge, the film goes full bore and gets extremely entertaining. It's almost too much action. One needs a break! By the end, you're glad it's over. Thus, if they had chopped 5-10 minutes off this, it would have been much better. Nonetheless, it's a fun ride with some genuinely scary parts and some humor, too. Since entertainment is the name of the game, this gets 8 stars even though it's lower-grade material.It flat-out entertains. "},{"Title":"The Most Overlooked Parody of Last Year...Pure Fun from Start to Finish!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"59 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks was originally titled Arac Attack before the film's star, David Arquette, thought of a better title (Eight Legged Freaks). The great thing about this title is it sets up the film perfectly--it's a parody, and a surprisingly entertaining and hilarious and fun one, too.David Arquette is the film's main character the local boy who has returned after 10 years and still has a crush on cute Sheriff Sam Parker (Kari Wuhrer). Once he arrives, he tries to spark a relationship with her, but everything is put on hold when mutated spiders (which formed from pollution in the mining caves) start to attack humans and animals, and everything goes haywire. Now David's character must put an end to these eight legged freaks before all legs break loose. (Yeah, that was a pretty bad pun.)Eight Legged Freaks was one of the biggest surprises of last year, mainly because it was so darn funny and such a good spoof. I went into the theater expecting, at the bare minimum, a film with a rating of...say...2, 2.5/5 stars. I'd have to give this a 3.5. It was completely overlooked, probably the most overlooked film of last year (though that is pushing it). The parody is classic.Do you remember those old films about mining towns in the middle of nowhere, population 9, where giant grasshoppers, spiders, worms--heck, I saw a film with giant ants once--start attacking? That's what Eight Legged Freaks spoofs. It takes the old formulas and twists it around to have fun with.Towards the end I found myself having such a pleasurable experience that I couldn't believe this film was so underrated. Nothing is more fun than seeing a bunch of people going after giant spiders with shotguns--it's pure fun. The people that went into this film expecting Oscar material were nuts.The most sad thing about Eight Legged Freaks is that the people going into Men in Black II were probably expecting something like this something funny, smart, original, witty, and satirical. I went into Men in Black II expecting something as good as Eight Legged Freaks, and apparently Roger Ebert did, too. I'm on the same level with him, because I thought this film was extremely entertaining. There are some plot holes and stupid cliches, but most of them are there to be made fun of. People going into deserted malls late at night trying to escape the spiders, people going into the lair of the spiders (which ends in them being chased by a giant Black Widow Spider). Y'know those movies where people do things, and you hear people in the movie theater (maybe it's you) shouting, Don't go in there! It'll get you!? That's what Eight Legged Freaks plays on. Basically this film makes fun of every misused B-monster movie cliche, and that's what is so darn funny about this movie.This film delivered everything I go to the movies for.3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Mindless and Totally Entertaining","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"47 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A good kid actor that's not annoying and you actually kind of like. Check.A hot mom/daughter combo, neither of which do or say anything annoying during the entire film. Check. (this may be a first) David Arquette remaining likable, which he always kind of is. Check.Somewhat funny black character who's obsessed with aliens. Check.Nobody is exempt from being killed or taken by spiders. Check.The spiders are fast and come in great variety of types. Check.The soundtrack is totally insane, would have made Frank Zappa proud. Check.The CG effects are cheesy in areas and there are a few tiny holes in the plot, but overall this movie is ENTERTAINING. That's what I look for - was I entertained or was I checking my watch every 15-20 minutes. It's actually somewhat unpredictable in spots - the town villain who causes the disaster doesn't meet the demise you would expect...This movie is a classic example of a town overrun style film, similar to Gremlins - you watch the slow progression at the outset unfold into complete chaos as the characters (in most cases) are too slow to realize what is happening, refuse to believe, think it's a big joke, etc. Well, anyone who does that for too long in this movie is immediately killed. Good riddance. You'll like this movie. It's fun, gross and all of the characters are kind of funny or at least are not annoying. It's rare that I would ever say that about any movie. I tend to only review movies that I think get an unfair reputation and this is one of them. It deserves at least a 7.0, not a 5.6. "},{"Title":"One of the year's most pleasant surprises","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Final Score (average of various classic cinematic qualities- direction, pure fun, creativity, intelligence, originality, ect.)7.7 (out of 10)For some reason the mainstream in this country just HATES monster movies. They think they're too stupid, yet everytime an Austin Powers or Scary Movie comes out we're all just supposed to bend over and take it (wallow in it's stupidity).  Go figure.  Hopefully that's not going to stop Dean Devlin and Roland Emmerich from producing this stuff.  God bless them, they seem to understand the can-do campy 50s monster movie spirit more than anyone else today.  Eight Legged Freaks (and that IS a perfect title, by the way) is coming out to be one of the best popcorn rollarcoasters of the summer. I'll even say of last summer too.  The reason it keeps getting compared to the similarly toned Tremors, Gremlins and Arachnophobia is because it's the best movie of it's kind since then- and that was a decade ago.That's all genera-speak though.  While it blows away the likes of Men in Black 2, Eight Legged Freaks dissapoints in that it refuses to go the extra mile and break some of the templated cliches of the genera - the finale (while satisfying and cool to watch) was way to convenient for me- and it certainly has it's share of eye-rolling stupid lines and moments.  Doug E. Doug plays a typical conspiracy theorist who mouthpieces some typical Hollywood liberal lines (You still think a black man's vote counts in Florida). Plus, that lengthy cat death scene was unbearably cruel to watch. You'd think Hollywood expelled their hatred of cats with Cats and Dogs. Make no mistake about it Hollywood HATES cats.Nonetheless 7.7 is quite an accomplishment for a movie of this kind.  All the credit goes to first time writer/director Elkayhem.  The movie is serious only to the point of being true to it's genera, lightly funny without being too stupid, and occasionally even frightening.  Some of his plot points are cliche but he sets them up so well we hardly notice. The visuals are incredible from the bright cartoonish color pallette given to the locations to the spiders themselves - easily some of most realistic set of special effects I've seen in a while.  To many special effects movies now have this unconvincing animated look to them.  These lazy FX people don't understand that a comment like nice special effects is not a compliment. A good special effect is one we don't notice and these spiders are completely convincing.  One of my favorite little bits is one where two spiders work together- one ripping the door off a pickup, the other pulling out the guy inside. The trap-door spiders rule, but the jumpers are the stars. This movie does for Jumpers what Jurassic Park did for Velociraptors.The acting fits the bill.  David Arquette is perfectly cast as the lead. He plays it suprisingly straight (a nice change of pace from Deputy Dewey and other movie goofballs) but the mear novelty of his presence helps set the movie's goofy overall effect.  Finally, the action scenes are exciting, imaginative and very well paced.  This is a movie for anybody who ever looked around inside a mall and imagined what it would look like if the walls were swarming with hundreds of giant spiders.  I'm serious, you have to have that level of imagination. You also have to let a movie be what it is and this one is a rock solid entry in the modern monster movie library.Biggest Positive It's a blast, with realistic effects to boot.Biggest Negative that cat killing scene.  "},{"Title":"If Arachnophobia made you shiver,this one will make you quiver.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If the movie Arachnophobia made you jump, gave you nightmares, or disturbed you enough that you are afraid to feel for a lightswitch in a dark,don't see Eight Legged Freaks. This one has the feel of late 50's -early 60's horror/sci-fi movies without the phony looking monsters. These spiders looked REAL and their movements were orchestrated in such a way that you felt like you were really watching giant spiders on the screen. I can't say any of the human actors had really stand-out performances, because the spiders were the stars of this one. I will say that this movie and Spider-Man have the potential to interest young budding arachnophiles to take a serious look at the scientific side of spiders. Each of these movies gives the scientific names and characteristics of the different spiders involved(before the radiation takes effect),and does a super job of presenting their habits and idiosyncrasies. The only thing that might be questioned in either movie is the aggressiveness of the arachnids portrayed(perhaps this is the fault of the radiation as well). I give this movie eight digits up for sheer entertainment value. "},{"Title":"Dialogue funny, CGI great, fun time - It's Squashin' Time","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The dialogue was great.  Rick Overton as the deputy is truly a modern day Barney Fife.  The spiders steal the show.  Though the plot does drag a bit in a few places the film generally moves quickly and has you jumping in your seats as spiders big and small pop out of everywhere.  The film appears to be done in the same style as Tremors and definitely captures the light heartedness of that film.  Good Entertainment.  Enjoy the popcorn. "},{"Title":"A perfect B-Movie homage","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  this has all the makings of a future classic paying beautiful and perfect homage to all the classic B-Movies that we all know and love, from the classic references and brilliant in jokes, the fantastic corny dialogue, the perfect cast acting there socks off to bring back all the memories that everyone knows and loves of the golden age of B-Movies. the story is simple and ludicrous, toxic waste spill crossed with exotic spider farm = giant killer spiders attacking a town.FANTASTIC has everything you need from a movie, the conspiracy theorist nut job on the radio played greatly by the fantastic Doug E. Doug, the town boy who has just returned to be the hero played by the ever excellent David Arquette who is the most perfectly cast B-Movie actor EVER! and the really hot sherriff who is in love with the hero and vice versa,  a great film, some ropey effects on occasion but it only adds to the brilliant and fantastic B-Movie feel of a truly great and memorable movie i hope more movies like this come along and quickly!  "},{"Title":"Campy Fun!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie on DVD based soley on the reviews that said it was funny and a return to the B-movie genre.  It was that and more.  I don't usually enjoy David Arquette but he was loveable in this movie.  This movie made me both laugh and jump.  It knew how to poke fun at itself without seeming pathetic.  If you're looking for a campy movie with things jumping out at you this is a good pick.   "},{"Title":"A cool 50's Style monster flick","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a great flick, it's old fashion monster making magic at it's finest. The story, the characters, the effects are all great. It's the kind of fun movie they use to make in the fifties. That watch out for mutation monster movies. The kind that Roger Cormen and Burt I. Gordon use to make. But this movie took longer then the weekend to make. The creature effects were realistic and cool. The spiders had personality. The human cast does a great job, the radio guy and his alien talk got annoying. He totally believes in aliens but can't fathom mutations. A conspiracy nut like him should believe that radiation causes mutations, and if the Government covers aliens up they sure hell would cover mutants up. Anyway, one minor thing during the grand scheme of things. I give EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS...9 STARS "},{"Title":"Beautifully brainless fun!","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Giant spiders attack a sleepy Arizona mining town. Zany hijinks ensue.This movie is a nod--or a series of nods, really--to the classic B-movie giant insect run amok genre in the spirit of Them!, The Praying Mantis, and especially Tarantula. A mixture of weird science gone wrong and shady double-dealing turns a local exotic spider collection into rampaging, man-eating monsters.Is it scientifically accurate? Hell, no. Is it great drama? Afraid not. Is it Academy Award material? I don't think so. Is it *fun*? You bet! Part of the fun of this movie is that it *isn't* trying to educate anybody about the environment, the ozone layer, global warming, or terrorist attacks. It's beautifully brainless entertainment and if you like to laugh--a *lot*--you'll love this movie. Rent it! Now! "}{"Title":"This is the best darn spider movie ever made!!!","Date":"4 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is hysterically funny and scary at the same time! Our heroes attempt to save a remote town from the eight legged freaks! Each character has some very clever and insightful ways to escape the spiders. THERE ARE SOME OF THE FUNNIEST SCENES (A SPIDER TRIES TO EAT A STUFFED MOOSE HEAD MOUNTED ON THE WALL) I HAVE EVER SEEN IN A HORROR MOVIE. This movie is not to be missed! Even people who have spider issues will love this movie. The spiders squeak and show more emotion than you would expect! One jumping spider jumps up and hits a window and slides down groaning all of the way! Don't let any fears stop you from watching this film, there is very little (almost none) gore (most of that is cheekily implied....and the plot is wonderful! Will our heroes save the town? YOU will have to watch to see! "},{"Title":"a decent spider flick, better than others I can think of","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I found this movie to be very enjoyable. It has a plot a lot like what you'd see in a lot of those B-grade sci-fi spider flicks that we see all the time, only this one was executed much finer than those other ones. It's not really scary, not that it was probably intended to be anyways. It has some corny humor, which I grinned at a few times or so. But I still think that you should never cross the genres of science-fiction with comedy. It rarely works out.But Eight Legged Freaks is an okay movie with okay CGI for the giant spiders. Although one thing that apparently nobody could realize is that you CAN'T hold a shotgun like the way they do in this movie. The butt of the gun can't just be hanging out there in midair behind your elbow like they do here. That would just break your wrists. That does get kind of annoying throughout the movie because nobody ever seems to hold the shotguns right. But, who cares? It's still a good movie. "},{"Title":"Arach Attack!","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Spiders escape from a spider farm in Prosperity, Arizona, and become giant man eating beasts on account of toxic waste carelessly dumped in a near by river. Can the odd ball inhabitants of this Arizona town escape with their lives? Or will spiders rule the earth and lay waste to man kind?Eight Legged Freaks is unashamedly homaging B movie creature features from the 1950s. The likes of Tarantula and Them! have their Pedipalps well and truly watered, in what is possibly the most undervalued of all the modern day creature feature homages. Having no pretensions what so ever, the only real thing not in Freaks favour is the usage of CGI, but even that doesn't hurt the film, if anything it adds to the obvious preposterous nature of the genre. I mean how else are we to get 20 foot jumping spiders chowing down on some annoying teenager?Perhaps Freaks is viewed harsh because the cast is relatively C list? Again that is a genre staple, surely? For what it's worth I think they do real fine, David Arquette has oodles of goofy charisma, Kari Wuher makes a fine female ass kicker, and the kids (one a young Scarlett Johansen) are really rather cool. Director Ellory Elkayem, who after doing They Nest in 2000 clearly has bug issues, adheres to genre staples. Kooky western town out in the desert, the inhabitants of which range from near loonies to dopey politicians, and the plot follows the traditional sense of impending doom played for laughs. Listen out for the score from John Ottman, which plays on variants of Itsy Bitsy Spider, whilst cast a keen eye on John S. Bartley's Arizona camera work.Whilst not having the savvy scripting of homage daddy, Tremors, or the star appeal of 1990's Arachnophobia, Eight Legged Freaks deserves its place amongst such fun and creepy company. As the tag line says, Do you hate spiders? Do you really hate spiders? Well they don't like you either. With that, I think it's web well and truly spun, don't you? 7/10 "},{"Title":"Amazingly entertaining","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Arachnophobia is one of the most common phobias, and one of the strongest among those subject to it. I tend to be one of those and so have never much enjoyed horror films featuring giant or menacing spiders. To my surprise, I was never particularly uncomfortable during Eight Legged Freaks. This and Arachnophobia are my two favorite spider films.This is a horror-comedy, a genre that's difficult to pull off effectively. What makes it work are the personalities (sic!) of the spiders. They're not unlike the title characters in Gremlins (another favorite) as they gleefully go about, rampaging and wreaking havoc among the humans (it's worth noting that the film never actually shows anyone meeting their gruesome death nor do any of the humans you come to know actually die). And that's the key - although these spiders are physically typical of their kind, their actions have been anthropomorphized to make them much less creepy. Just as in Gremlins, they've been given voices - which real giant spiders undoubtedly wouldn't have. The human actors, while uniformly competent are consistently upstaged by the CGI spiders. Also, like Gremlins, the small town setting is populated by a collection of eccentrics, which only helps. The plot is just a device on which to hang the action and comedy. It's silly, but no sillier than nay other giant creature film. "},{"Title":"It's called 'Eight Legged Freaks.' What did you expect?","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Certainly there were any number of reasons for me to not like 'Eight Legged Freaks' before I watched it. I'm not a spider guy so I wasn't really interested in the first place. As far as actors go, I can't stand David Arquette. Generally I find him aggravating in the extreme and his characters highly unlikeable -- but more on that in a moment. And to paraphrase Val Lewton about his own RKO films It's hard for critics to give positive reviews to films called 'I Walked With a Zombie.'At the time of this review's writing, the film has a rating on the IMDb of 5.5/10. I'm actually quite surprised by that because despite my own personal biases, the film proved me wrong. I had no level of expectation for it and really no desire to watch it in the first place. I was wrong and I admit it. It was truly funny with some great sight gags and lines. There are definitely some decent scares and a pretty competent job of raising the level of tension in the film to a steady and consistent level. David Arquette surprised me and this might be the best performance he's ever put in. My personal bias against him was dead wrong in this movie.'Eight Legged Freaks' is a throw back to creature films of the 50's and, as some other reviewers have alluded, to more contemporary films like 'Gremlins' and 'Tremors.' Horror-comedy is a difficult genre to work within but 'Eight Legged Freaks' manages to pull it off. The acting all around is good. A lot of the film is satirical (Doug E Doug's conspiracy guy) and the cgi is so obvious and over the top that, while it might be aggravating in a movie that took itself more seriously, you can't help but admire and respect the results.That really is the strength of the movie -- it doesn't take itself as seriously as a lot of its critics did. 'Eight Legged Freaks' does what the best films should do for two hours you forget you're watching a movie and you just enjoy yourself. I hope that time will be kind and maybe people will come around and give the movie another chance. Had this film taken itself seriously we would have ended up with a spider version of 'Bats.' This version and its self-deprecation are much worthier of your time. "},{"Title":"Call me crazy, but I loved it","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Let me say first of all that this film is far from perfect. But then again, it wasn't meant to be. This film was simply meant to be a thank-you-card and tribute to all the monster movies from the 50s and 60s. Well, that, and a laugh riot.I actually saw this film on the same day I saw 'Goldmember', and I found this MUCH more enjoyable by comparison.The spiders are the stars of the film and are meant to be. The humour derived from the relentless killing of spiders and people is brilliant.In terms of mindless entertainment, you could do worse than see 'Eight Legged Freaks'. "},{"Title":"Just as dumb as it was supposed to be","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A movie designed to give you the feel of the cheesy drive-in horror films of the 50's, and director Ellory Elkayem pulls it off pretty well, although I probably would have enjoyed it better had they really made it cheesy. They should have spiders that were rubber puppets as fake as you could make them. However, these spiders are created with the latest and greatest in computer animation so their was no low-budget feel here.For a movie made dumb on purpose, the plot was good enough... A scientist's collection of a bunch of rare and very deadly spiders gets irradiated by green glowing goo that falls off a chemical truck. They mutate and become gigantic monsters that go on a feeding frenzy through town, and it's up to a few courageous townspeople to improvise a plan and take them out. I believe their first victim was the scientist himself, so a nerdy kid obsessed with arachnids has to take charge in the plans to destroy the monsters before they get to the city. A great film for DVD rental night (i'd never spend money to buy a copy) and I think the kids would really like it. Adults, might snooze, but if your into random scenes of humans being eaten by spiders you'll like it.  "},{"Title":"Laughs and jumps!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight legged freaks.....we'll a 10/10 film for me.The arachnids moved,attacked and webbed everything so realisticly!shotguns,crossbows and perfume(???) clash with pincers,fangs and poison a tale of action aracnaphobids should avoid.also,some strange people who are brave enough to handle and study these beasts in real life,may enjoy the scientific side to this.... "},{"Title":"Arachnocomedy!","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  You could either be really harsh and say the film is a stupid and completely unnecessary CGI-playground or&#133;.you could sit back, relax and search for all the adorable references towards the delightful monster-movies like they could only make them in the 50's. In fact, that's all Eight Legged Freaks represents! A spoof slash tribute, updated with the latest and most expensive computer techniques. All the typical cliché aspects are there the isolated little town with the ironic sounding name, the unfortunate hero and all the charming (slightly retarded) redneck town-inhabitants. And of course the giant, mutated spiders complete with ludicrous &#145;yummy-noises. The ways these spiders are hunting they preys is funny instead of scary with complete over-the-top situations. You should already be warned&#133;a film that stars David Arquette as the heroic savior can't be taken too seriously. Present in Eight Legged Freaks as well two generations of stunningly beautiful actresses. Kari Wuhrer and Scarlet Johanssen. The latter is working her way up to the highest regions of Hollywood these days through starring in Oscar-favorites like &#145;Lost in Translation' and &#145;The Girl with the Pearl Earring', whereas Wuhrer is fixing her career as a B-movie queen. After Eight Legged Freaks, she starred in (mediocre) films such as King of the Ants, The Hitcher II and another Hellraiser sequel. I shamelessly admit I had a great time while watching Eight Legged Freaks. It reminded me of &#145;Tremors' a bit&#133;even though that one is better. Nonetheless, it's fun and a nice change from all those irrelevant and dull teen-slashers. If you're looking for a real tribute to the 50's monsters, check out the short film `Larger than Life' by the same director. That little film really breathes the monster atmosphere and formed the inspiration (and budget) to shoot Eight Legged Freaks. "},{"Title":"Good stuff!","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Unlike many modern-day movies that revolve around CGI and special effects, this one succeeds purely on the quality of the production and acting. There are some excellent effects indeed, but also some really dodgy ones. No matter when you have the likes of Arquette, Johansson, Wuhrer, Arlen Jones, and many more fine character actors on show. It must be very difficult to act with CGI, yet there are rarely, if ever, occasions when you see this cast looking even slightly lost.It may be a parody, it may be silly, but it's apparent that a lot of care went into making this, and the cast look like they're having fun - which always creates a good impression. There is nothing remarkable here, or particularly scary, but it does what it's supposed to do - entertain the audience. One of those movies that seems to go by quickly, and during which you won't find your mind drifting off to another place. Not sure what to rent for the evening? This is definitely worth a look - unless spiders make you nervous! "}{"Title":"Starts out pretty good but the tongue-in-cheek ruins it","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" It is OK to make a spoof movie. I am not a great fan of these, but it is a - lazy - genre. Now I really hate it when they switch horses in midstream with tongue-in-cheek jokes taking over. You cannot sell the real stuff and its spoof at the same time.Eight-legged Freaks (not 8 legged freaks; see Goofs to see that Studios find it difficult to speak English) starts out pretty good for an horror movie. It is a well travelled road, so it is not actually original, but that is fine with me for the genre. The usual characters are in place and it is quite enjoyable to follow. Then, either it takes too long to establish the little community or it unfortunately switches from building up tension to unleashing hell. I reckon Roland Emmerich as a producer doesn't help maintaining subtlety as a motto.Once the spiders are all over the place the movie becomes a family horror roller-coaster. You don't have to care for the characters anymore it is all just for a laugh! With all those CGI spiders everywhere they simply stop being scary. Pity since there were good ideas at first to make the story real creepy. The cat fighting with a spider behind plaster walls was a great idea, but it already got stretched beyond the point of goofiness. Same for the motocross chase in the desert fine idea which eventually turns cartoonish.The final act at the mall is a total mess. At this point every character is a puppet. Extras and background characters get killed, top-billed get to live whatever they do. Bottom line Arac-attack/Eight-legged Freaks does not deliver on its promise of being an impressive horror movie. And it fails too as a spoof since the first part is seriously developing a scary plot. "},{"Title":"This isn't a job for the pest control!","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In a remote, quiet mining town a barrel of toxic waste falls off a truck and lands in a creek. Naturally, it comes in contact with crickets, which are used to feed a collector's exotic spider collection and over a short matter of time these spiders have vastly grown. Arriving in town is a old resident, Chris McCormack who has return home after 10 years to look for the supposed gold that his deceased father claim was in their mine and also hopefully to clear up a certain matter with the lady he secretly loves; Samantha Parker, the town's sheriff. He discovers that the town is in ruin, but he wants to help it back from its economical ruin by finding that gold. But he didn't plan on the town soon being overrun by giant spiders! Now it's up to Chris, Sam and a small group of folks to team up and settle this massive problem.Eight Legged Freaks is a lively B-grade, Sci-fi parody on the giant monster features from the Cold War era, where it combines nuclear matter with the disgusting fear of creepy crawlies. But this project adds some campy charm to proceedings, which does share a common interest with the even better Tremors (1990). This is a enjoyable, no-brainer of a film that doesn't waste any time by giving what the audience wants! There's nothing overly clever about it, but it delivers the excitement and occasion laugh when needed. While, the story might seem heavily cartoonish, the director is capable enough to provide good timing with the goofy humour and that of some thrilling set pieces that can raise some tense energy. What you'll notice would be the constant homage's cropping up and it goes out of its way to poke fun of the usual clichés that make headway in these films. The script is mostly in tongue-in-cheek and doesn't go into sort of mumbo-jumbo, but there are some self-knowing winks about too. The performances are all played with a straight-face, which definitely works in its favour and the combine cast turn in fine performances (yep, even David Arquette!). David Arquette is surprisingly good in a tone down way as the awkward Chris McCormack and his babelicious co-star Kari Wuhrer (who mostly makes appearances in shoddy b-grades) is equally impressive as Sheriff Samantha Parker. Other recognizable faces offered solid support included the always wonderful Scarlett Johansson, the humorous deputy sheriff played by Rick Overton and Doug E. Doug is the paranoid disc jockey, the usual comic relief guy. Now the film's main talking point has got to be well-presented CGI arachnids who come in many different shapes, sizes and personalities. Which, would create a spine tingling thought with anyone who suffers arachnophobia with the giant infestation of spiders who have a growing appetite. Though, one thing against the creative effects was that it was probably, terribly overused. The versatile score works out greatly too, by sticking with and drumming out the right tone to what's eventuating on screen. Also the closing gimmick song in the ending credits; Itsy bitsy spider by Joey Deluxe is rather a nice touch. Just expect some happy, feel good entertainment.Sure it's forgettable, but I found it a delightful B-grade spoof that achieves what it was sets out to do. This throwback is nothing more than some good, lazy fun.Side-note Definitely check out Ellory Elkayem's suspenseful, experimental short film Larger than Life to see the inspiration for this piece. "},{"Title":"Let The Squishing Begin","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS was not well received by the critics and it did poorly at the box office--and frankly I'm surprised. Obviously we're not talking about deep meanings in reference to this film, but what it does, it does extremely well part homage, part spoof, part horror, part comedy, and all of it a tremendous amount of fun! The film is essentially the classic 1950s big bug movie brought up to date and given a comic spin. A truck driver skids on the road and accidentally releases toxic chemicals into a pond; unfortunately, an exotic spider farm happens to be nearby, and when the spiders are contaminated by the chemicals they explode into creatures of monstrous proportions, nasty dispositions, and insatiable appetites. Cats, dogs, and even the occasional ostrich goes missing--can human victims be far behind?The cast plays expertly, and two deserve special mention Doug E. Doug, who is hilarious as the independent radio station broadcaster obsessed with UFOs, aliens, and government cover-ups, and Eileen Ryan as the chain-smoking, drop-dead-talking Aunt Gladys. But although every one does well with their often-comic characters, the emphasis isn't on the cast it's on special effects, sight-gags, and a traditional big bug plot played at a breakneck speed. It's all smoothly, slickly done, and the special effects are terrific without going into overkill.Now, the film is rather icky after all, the spiders jump and bite and slurp, and when the townfolk go after them with everything from guns to pitchforks to chainsaws they also splatter in an appropriately disgusting way. Some viewers will be turned off by the black humor of the piece--particularly as it references the pets that go missing early on in the film. (I admit I winced a bit myself there!) Some viewers may be turned off by the ick factor and the violence, of which there is aplenty; others may take issue with the plot itself, which as noted is pretty traditional. But this isn't an Ingmar Bergman or Fellini film we're talking about here, and if you want a modern twist on a classic sci-fi theme, EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS is sure to please. The DVD release has several extras, some of which are fun as well. On the whole, I give it seven big squishes!Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Better the Godzilla(1998),or a lot of giant monster movies of late","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have seen this movie, Godzilla (1998), AND ID4, and while the FX's were good in all 3 I would have to say 8 legged freaks had by far the most human cast ans the most interesting story which is why when I found out the American Godzilla gets smashed back to the ice age by the Toho studio King of the Monsters I was jumping for joy. I am really hoping that the studio will look at making a sequel to this as we were never sure if i was just the orb weavers, or all the spiders having babies and if they were all killed in the methane gas explosion. The other thing is that it was of the few films where even the good guys die and the bad guy (Wade) survives and even at the end is still more interested in his mall and if his insurance will pay for it instead of being the mayor and being worried about his townspeople.. "},{"Title":"enjoyable and amusing WARNING!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  enjoyable and amusing horror/comedy it's well made and has the right amount of thrills and humor to it and the pacing never drags and it's enjoyable all the way through. I loved the effects too very well done the spiders themselves looked very cool but it was all meant to be in fun not scary so it did that aspect well. now it does get a little chaotic but never EXTREMELY chaotic and it never hampers the film.not a classic or anything but i wasn't expecting one those cocoons looked pretty cool normally i am very afraid of spiders but this didn't bother me one bit. not much gore except green spider guts. The Acting is good David Arquette does well here and didn't get on my nerves once as he usually does in fact i found him quite funny.Kari Wuhrer is GORGEOUS!!!! and stunning! and her acting here is GREAT giving a determined focused performance I LOVE her!. Scarlet Johansson is also gorgeous and does well here but she does not have to do much. Scott Tera is very cool! as the kid and didn't get on my nerves either where is he now?. Doug E Doug was Hilarious here and cracked me up good job!. Rick Overton also does good here. Overall an amusing horror/comedy that is recommended *** out of 5  "},{"Title":"A monster film plenty of spectacular scenes , frenetic  action and  humor","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's a monster movie' s homage with gigantic spiders as protagonists . A truck transporting waste crashes and dropping an unfortunate chemical spill in a river . Some spiders are accidentally escaped and the eight-legged beasts increase their weight and wreak havoc , terrorizing and destroying the villagers . Residents of a rural mining town called Prosperity discover that a radioactive stuff has caused hundreds of little spiders to mutate to a giant size . It's then up to mining engineer Chris McCormack (David Arquette)and Sheriff Sam Parker (Kari Wuhrer) to mobilize a diverse group of townspeople , including the Sheriff's young son, Mike (Scott Terra ), her daughter, Ashley (Scarlett Johansson), and paranoid radio-speaker man named Harlan ( Doug E. Doug), into fight against the lethal eight-legged Aracs. Meanwhile the bloodthirsty spiders meet up local citizens and spontaneously catch them and begins to consume people. The spiders rapidly multiplies and the protagonists confronting with them . The eclectic bunch takes refuge at the Prosperity Mall and the little town is devastated by the spiders attack.This monster/comedy film with quite budget packs thrills, some good action and funny moments. It's a hybrid of monster movies from the 50s such as 'Tarantula' and modern American production plenty of C.G.I. The thrilling screenplay is a bit yawn-inspiring but nifty special effects will keep you from dozing off, with nice creatures designers, created by means of Animatronics and computer visual effects . This is a suspenseful and amusing thriller especially at the amazing ending tableau when Lewis Arquette and Kari Wuhrer have to tackle the gigantic spider at the lair in the final. The flick is lavishly produced by Roland Emmerich and Dean Devlin. Emmerich is a good director, writer and producer who founded along with Dean Devlin the company Centropolis Entertainment and expert on making movies for the masses and specialist on large-scale disaster movies ¨Day after tomorrow¨, ¨ 2012 ¨, spectacular stories ¨ Stargate ¨,¨ The patriot¨, ¨Universal soldier ¨ and giant monsters as Mammoth and Sabretooth in ¨10.000 B.c ¨ , aliens in ¨Independence day ¨ , ¨Godzilla¨ and spiders in ¨Eight legged freaks¨. The picture is well directed by Ellory Elkayem with rather too much camera movement and there are also lots of low-angle shots of people hanging around waiting to get bitten by the carnivorous spider. Although nothing which haven't been seen before, this is not the picture to watch if you are scared of spiders , however the movie is quite entertaining. Utterly arachnophobia people must flee this film.Other movies about those bugs are the following  ¨Tarantula(1955)¨ by Jack Arnold with John Agar; ¨Tarantula the deadly cargo(1977)¨ with Claude Akins; ¨Kingdom of spiders(77)¨ by John Budd Cardos with William Shatner and ¨Arachnophobia(1990)¨ by Frank Marshall with John Goodman. "},{"Title":"Could you ask for more than big bugs in a B-movie homage.","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" My Take A hilarious send-off of the silly B-movies of the 50's.EIGHT-LEGGED FREAKS is a campy, big-bug B movie with all the usual refinements actors with a B-profile resume, a script which is only about of town fighting against uninvited guests (in this case, giant spiders) and a special effects crew that could make this menaces into the new special effects creature in the book. Although the special effects in EIGHT-LEGGED FREAKS won't break anything in the record of special effects creations, they do their job. These slime-spewing, screeching arachnids are both phony and convincing, sometimes at the same time. But they are what they are, there the behemoths that are expected from a B-movie homage called EIGHT-LEGGED FREAKS.Almost every frame of the film is devoted to those old B-movie clichés. There's the hero, an average Joe returnee named Chris McCormick (David Arquette), returning home after years of absence. He, as son of a famous mining engineer, is disappointed at how the town's (Prosperity, Arizona) economy has dropped. The mines are being closed in favor of a mall being built by the town's greedy consumerist mayor (Leon Rippy), who has also moved to a business of an ostrich farm. Chris is the town hero who leads the brigade to stop the creeping crawlers, who are by the way mutated to large size when they ingest a certain amount of nuclear wastes.What B-movie (or an homage) would be complete without the presence of the kid who discovers the danger and is never believed by those he tells. This kid is played by Scott Terra, a kid who loves spiders and freaks out when he finds one that's way bigger than the usual size. Kari Wuhrer (from ANACONDA) plays Sheriff Sam Parker, another tough fighter as well as Chris' ex-flame and Scarlett Johanssonn plays her rebellious daughter. Doug E. Doug provides the most hilarious character as an eccentric radio announcer who believes in the coming of them. Eileen Ryan and Rick Overton play other townies fighting against the giant spiders.Despite the human cast, there's the real stars of the show, the giant spiders. Like dinosaurs in JURASSIC PARK or the cantina creatures in STAR WARS, these critters come in all of sorts. There are giant tarantulas, leaping spiders, trapdoor spiders and spiders the size of the latest SUV's. It's all thanks to the creative wackiness of the special effects crew. The script is also filled with wit an charm, a straight to those B-movies like THEM and TARANTULA. Not for all tastes, but anyone with a taste for the absurd will definitely love this.Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"I rate Eight Legged Freaks a freakin' fun eight out of ten.","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" As anyone who regularly watches big-bug movies should know, toxic waste and creepy-crawlies are not a great combination, the result usually being monstrous, over-sized critters intent on devouring humans and trashing cities. Eight Legged Freaks is no exception, and opens with a barrel of radioactive goop leaking into a pond near the seemingly-soon-to-be-ghost-town of Prosperity (why do they always tempt fate by giving these places such silly names?); before you know it, giant spiders are everywhere, wrapping up victims and taking them into their arachnoid larder&#151;a network of disused gold mines.David Arquette plays Chris McCormick, owner of the mines, who teams up with various townsfolk who have managed to avoid becoming spider fodder&#151;including sexy Sheriff Samantha Parker (Kari Wuhrer), her equally sexy daughter Ashley (Scarlett Johansson) and geeky son Mike (Scott Terra), and conspiracy theory nut Harlan (Doug E. Doug)&#151;to destroy the gigantic spiders and save the town.With a likable cast and a whole slew of impressive special effects, Eight Legged Freaks is an affectionate tribute to the B-movie monsterfests of the 50s. Planting tongue firmly in cheek, writer/director Ellory Elkayem delivers an action packed, thrill-a-minute movie that will have arachnophobes squirming in their seats, whilst everyone else will be having a blast.Occasionally, the film's comedic elements veer towards the cartoonish a tad too much (the spiders make unnecessarily silly noises, do pratfalls, and in one silly scene, even have a wrestling match with a cat inside a dry-lined wall cavity), but, on the whole, the film is a great mix of the silly and the scary.I enjoyed Eight Legged Freaks very much (not least because Wuhrer and Johansson are perhaps the fittest mother/daughter combo ever to grace the silver screen) and highly recommend it if you're after a fun popcorn flick for a Saturday night. "},{"Title":"Arachnophobia magnified","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Eight Legged Freaks earned my respect simply because it never tried to pretend to be something it wasn't. It came right out and let it be known that it was a 'B' style comedy horror (or horror comedy, however it is supposed to be worded), instead of trying to disguise itself as a genuine and serious scary movie. They even gave the movie a silly name. If more movies were as honest as Eight Legged Freaks, then they would probably do better at the box office, and they would definitely get better reviews because the audience would already know what they are going to watch. Eight Legged Freaks was very much like Arachnophobia of the early 90's except with the small difference, or should I say large difference. Of course, in Eight Legged Freaks the spiders were gargantuan and terrorized an entire town as opposed to being small and just terrorizing a couple of households. I liked the movie, it was funny, it was eerie and it was as cheesy as advertised. "},{"Title":"Eight Legged Nonsense.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Eight-Legged Freaks (2002) Dir Ellory Elkayem / Cast David Arquette, Kari Wuhrer, Scarlett Johansson, Doug E. Doug, Rick Overton Presenting a mutating normality that isn't a great idea. The simple plot regards a barrel of toxic substance spilling into a river with a growth affect on spiders. What follows is numerous attacks on people for no other purpose than to entertain stupidity. Horrible special effects with spiders jumping out at people but it doesn't even look as if any contact is being made. Repetitious story with director Ellory Elkayem quoting from other pathetic spider trauma movies. David Arquette hardly sympathetic as he arrives back in town after ten years away. After this film he may desire to take ten years off from acting so to forget this sh*t stain film altogether. Kari Wuhrer plays a Sheriff who warns daughter Scarlett Johansson about sexually corrupt males. Perhaps she should warn her about accepting scripts as lame as this one and then apply the same medicine to herself. Doug E. Doug plays a radio personality who believes in aliens. Well, if he believes that this film is a career booster then perhaps he can believe in anything. Rick Overton plays Wuhrer's moron Deputy who has cob webs for brains. Basically a send off to superior monster movies of the 1950's but this film should be squashed with an oversized sledgehammer. Score 3 / 10 "}{"Title":"Common-or-garden creature-horror","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Common-or-garden creature-horror movie. Only worth watching because it includes a pre-fame Scarlett Johansson.Not original - reminds me a lot of Tremors (which itself wasn't that original). Pretty much standard creature-horror plot, action and CGI.Even the CGI, which you would think would be the best feature, seems a bit crude.As mentioned, worth watching because it includes Scarlett Johansson before she was famous. Her next movie was Lost in Translation...Kari Wuhrer is also eminently watchable. David Arquette proves yet again that his siblings got the acting genes, while his talents clearly must lie elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Arachnid Goofballs","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is going to date me. Eight Legged Freaks is the first time I can remember being excited about a movie no one else cared about. It was my first year of high school, I think. I was just far enough into my teens that my love of black and white creature features were confirmed. Someone was attempting to revive the big bug picture in 2002? Hell yeah, I was up for me. No one else was. It bombed domestically (though broke even internationally) and reviews were middling. The movie isn't quite old or endearing enough to have a cult following. If the Eight Legged Freaks fandom has to start somewhere, let it start with me.The story is basically Gremlins by way of Tarantula. This is most obvious in how the film treats its threats. The giant spiders of Eight Legged Freaks are arachnid goof balls. The CGI is clearly dated but the animators and special effect guys made sure the spiders had personality. They mumble, shriek, and grumble like Killer Tomatoes. Their vocalizations are intentionally exaggerated and cartoonish. On two separate occasions, giant spiders get dragged behind moving cars. One grumbles in frustration after taking a bite out of a stuffed moose. Another jumps flat into a closed window. One spider out-boxes a boxer. Another cheers on his brothers as they rush the mall. One slides down on a rope, screaming the whole way. A shot spider swings on a thread, dousing his pals with green spider goop. One of the best spider gags involves a sneaky tent. Even a die-hard arachnophobe is more likely to laugh then scream. Eight Legged Freaks is less a modern reinvention of the classic big bug flick then a Mel Brooks parody on the subgenre. I guess some might find that to be a one-note joke but, I don't know guys, wacky giant spiders? Count me in.The film also nails the small town setting. Prosperity, Arizona is nicely isolated at times. The ensemble cast quickly gives you a sense of community. You believe that this small time is fighting for their mutual survival. The crusty old barber and near-sided janitor are equally amusing, each assign simple, entertaining personalities. Doug E. Doug finds a great home for his overtaxed comedic style as the local conspiracy radio host. His beleaguered shouts of frustration prove consistently funny. Rick Overton is also great as Deputy Pete. His reactions to the spiders are, at first, shocked confusion, later transitioning to dead-pan fear. Leon Rippy's talents are also well-suited to the conniving town mayor. Tom Noonan, uncredited and with minutes of screen time, makes an impression too. The strong character actor cast is another reason to love Eight Legged Freaks. The supporting cast proves far more memorable then the leads. I'm willing to give David Arquette more slack then others. But there's no mistaking the guy for leading man material. His attempts at one-liners are especially groan-inducing. His performance works best when playing up his nervous qualities. Kari Wuhrer is never convincing as a mom or action heroine. Yeah, she looks fantastic in tight jeans and t-shirts but can hardly carry the film. She has zero chemistry with Arquette. Even Scarlett Johansson, hardly a great actress in her right, outshines the leads. (And also looks fantastic in tight t-shirts and jeans.) You can actually see elements of a more serious horror film under Eight Legged Freaks goofy exterior. A mouthful of spiders, regardless of size, is likely to make some squirm. The trapdoor spiders snatching people running across a parking lot could have been mined for real scares. Probably the biggest action set-piece in the film is the jumping spiders going after the kids on dirt bikes. This is the closest the film comes to real tension and, even then, it's awash in silly special effects. I'm not complaining, simply noting. It wouldn't surprise me if this started life as a more serious screenplay.The script is decently constructed. You can tell that the cigarettes, stun gun, and underground gas veins will be important later. I still appreciate the effort to set them up. I also appreciate the horror in-jokes, Them on TV, the mall invasion finale, the Hockey Mask/Chainsaw combo. The Micky-Mousing score is probably the only thing about the movie I don't like. That's the only overly jokey element. Even then, incorporating a low-pitched version of Itsy Bitsy Spider was clever. An early scene where a spider and a cat wrestle inside a wall probably goes on too long and reaches too hard for the kind of silly laughs the rest of the movie has no problem with. Eight Legged Freaks is still underrated and underseen. This surprises me. I can think of many horror fans who would love its goofy charms. "},{"Title":"Great little spider film!","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is one of those films that you can see over and over, and finding new things to enjoy. The story is simple, and similar to many other horror films, where insects/spiders for some reason become unnaturally big and prey on man. Great spiders, good acting, not that bad dialog, and a lot of humor.Many films in this class take themselves totally serious (like the abysmal Alien vs Zombies), which this does not - a big plus in my book. That a Taser should be able to fire up an entire electrical grid (if small), is just about the only total slip-up - the rest is fairly good in both continuity and SFX. Some guy is waving an unloaded crossbow at the spiders, and still he can fire it, and nobody collects any fired bolts (the missiles a crossbow is bolts, not arrows), also quite questionable.Well worth watching, and great fun! "},{"Title":"I'm not gonna stay here for the rest of my life and be a trailer trash sheriff!","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Now, this has just about everything you would want in a B-Movie horror flick.There is 18-year-old Scarlett Johansson, who plays the Sheriff's daughter, and giving us a preview of why she is such a hot actress today.Speaking of hot, the Sheriff, Kari Wuhrer, is smoking.There is David Arquette from Scream 1,2,3, and 4, who is just born to play B-Movie horror.The couple with their cat and the old lady (Eileen Ryan) with her dog are just priceless scenes.I guarantee that I would watch motocross racing if they added those jumping spiders. lolLoads of fun.Now, if Scarlett had only dropped the towel when the spider came in her window, t would have been an 8. "},{"Title":"Great fun for the whole family !","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I will start of with the plot What do you get when you cross toxic waste with a bunch of exotic spiders?.. Eaten!.. The residents of a rural mining town discover that an unfortunate chemical spill has caused hundreds of little spiders to mutate overnight to the size of SUVs. And their hungry! When the alarm is sounded, it's then up to mining engineer Chris McCormack and Sheriff Sam Parker to mobilize an eclectic group of townspeople, including the Sheriff's young son, Mike, her daughter, Ashley and paranoid radio announcer Harlan Griffith and Deputy Pete Willis into battle against the bloodthirsty eight-legged beasts.This movie is bit tremors but instead there are big spiders instead of big worms.This movie is really funny, it's great Comdey/Horror/Sci-fi for the whole family. unless one of your family members are scared of spiders.The acting this movie is really good from the whole and i really liked how the spiders looked, then are not that scary, i really like how they had all different kinda of big spiders as well, the attack are more funny most of the time.I going keep this movie 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not many films make me laugh out loud....","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" But this one did....It was on British TV last night and watched it. I have to say I don't really know anything about the actors, director but a first class job! I found it very, very funny and liked the way the spiders (the CGI was pretty good for what I presume was not made as a blockbuster) adopted some human characteristics. Loved the way that great big one reacted to perfume in the face! And also the on-going joke throughout the movie of the hero trying to approach the sexy sheriff only to be interrupted each time - with the final part of Oh, your Dad told me that and that was easy! Anyway great entertainment and a good laugh - that is what the movie aimed at and did a really good job in providing it. Class! "},{"Title":"Arac attack.","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" From the producers of 'Independence Day' and 'Godzilla' comes 'Eight Legged Freaks', an entertaining monster movie that redefines arachnophobia.Let me start of by asking if you do don't like spiders.Most people in the world hate spiders and I can't say that I blame them.What makes them creepy are their physical features.They have 8 legs.They have 8 eyes.They can be hairy.They also eat meat.Well, imagine a spider with all of these features and it was 5 times it's original size.I'm sure that not even the biggest fan of spiders would want that.In the town of Prosperity, Arizona, a barrel of toxic waste gets dumped into a body of water and whatever has been living in that lake has apparently increased in size.So a man who owns an exotic spider farm finds some crickets in the lake that are bigger then their normal size.He feeds them to the spiders and then they also increase in size.The spiders get out of their cages, kill the man, and are free to do whatever they want now that they are free.Now there's an interesting plot for ya.'Eight Legged Freaks' is great popcorn entertainment that will please all except those who don't like things that have eight legs and spin webs. "},{"Title":"'It's spider, man!' &#150; reporting to you from the state of Arac-Zona","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Anyone who watches this movie as a serious horror/science fiction flick is so dreadfully mistaken, that such a person might even have to consider stopping watching movies altogether. It might lead to some terrible, fatally shocking misunderstanding eventually. This is a genre parody here, and should be enjoyed (and can very much be enjoyed) as such. The gags are great, the visual effects are good enough for a genre parody, and the cast is doing its sympathetic job decently. The only scary moment comes when you have to fear for the safety of a poor little trouble-making rabbit, right at the beginning.While based on a B-movie collage, this is definitely not a B-movie in terms of quality.Watch this film in the company of friends. Normally you shouldn't be any more afraid of spiders afterward than before. "},{"Title":"entertaining spoof of 50's sc/fi, horror","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" eight legged freaks is the tale of radiated spiders who become massive and really,really mean.they take over the town,killing anyone in their paths.the townspeople must find a way to stop them.this movie is hysterical.it references other movies of the pas,t especially 50's sc/fi horror.the whole thing is played for camp.which is why it works.the acting is way over the top,again intentional.the spiders themselves are even funny in their actions and their vocalizations.David Arquette,Kari Wuhrer and Scarlet Johansson star.if you go into this movie expecting to see a serious piece of work,you will be disappointed.(hopefully the title will be a hint).anyway,this is an entertaining film with a lot of deliberate laughs. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Very Enjoyable Movie","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A bio-hazard chemical spills into a lake which makes tiny little spiders turn into huge creepy predators. They roam a town as the town tries to stop the invasion.This film did not do well in the box office. With the film it is, it should be watched by a lot more people, even people who are afraid of spiders. The actings are okay by the actors/actresses but with a film this entertaining, who cares?If this film would be as entertaining as the second half of the film, I would've liked it more. Still, it's enjoyable with clever jokes and funny sound effects with okay special effects.This film makes fun of many clichés in B-movies and that's why it's so funny. If you would like to see a witty, fun, fresh, satirical, and entertaining film, this is the film to see! It's PURE FUN! "}{"Title":"A long lost 1950's bug movie has got time warped into our time!","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I mean that's what I probably would I would have wrote in this review all the way through or told anyone who asked me about this movie, had it not been for the CGI spiders, that probably would have happened, but forgetting all that, boy does the plot ever scream 1950's giant spider movie! that's right, those darn web makers are still ticked off at us humans & this time it's in a small town these guys decide to take out their frustration on, while the towns folk must ban together to stop them, or at least try to with out getting trapped in their slimy webs or worse get eating!. Despite some very humorous & fun moments, EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS is strictly for those who know & love pretty much all of those giant spiders try to take over earth story lines, there's really not that much suspense in the film, the characters were not all that memorable & some were annoying. The spiders looked laughably fake, but they should do until Hollywood can come up with a way to make CGI more realistic looking & not look so fake. The actors were mostly dull, except for David ARQUETTE & the direction was better than usual. Worth a look however, just don't be expecting anything overly spectacular & you won't be disappointed.*** stars "},{"Title":"Flash backs from the 50's","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" *****Spoilers****** OK the movie starts out with a person moving back to a backwater town that once had a mine as the primary income but the mine dried up and there's nothing there now so the town's mayor does whatever he can to raise money from making an ostrich ranch to sell them as burgers to making a mall. Basically the person moving back had been in love with the chief of police and her son on a regular basis visits a crazy old man that lives in the middle of nowhere and collects spiders which recently have tripled in size by drinking the water. In a deleted scene I thought they should leave in the mayor was making money by burying toxic waste in the town but they did leave in a scene where they fish out a barrle of it. But the movie just goes on with the Town rallying together when the spiders get to big and start attacking which leads the survivors to gather in a mall and get whatever they can to fight the spiders the movie brings back memories of the movie Dawn of the Dead and I think it was a great movie which I thought would be scary because of the fact that I have Arachniphbia but the movie was funny as hell. The acting was stupid but in a good way the movie just wouldn't seem good and funny if the lines weren't cheesy and redone like a thousand times in other movies. "},{"Title":"Modern day film with thrills, chills, and laughs.","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Better than REIGN OF FIRE. This film pays homage to THEM (1954) TARANTULA (1955), the original EARTH VS THE SPIDER (1957), etc. Yeah, David Arquette was the star. I liked him in SON OF THE BEACH. The visual effects were awesome. The jokes were corny in a good sort of way.What was that?Spider man.The previews were spoofing the 2002 SPIDER MAN. It was funny to hear the orchestra thunderously play The Itsy Bitsy Spider. I like this film from beginning to end. Recommended for fans of classic sci-fi horror.  "},{"Title":"EIGHT-LEGGED THUMBS UP!!!","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I first catch this movie on HBO I just had in my mind one thing throw an hour and a half of my life on the sofa just for the sake of wasting my time and I most say that I pretty much enjoy watch this movie. Ok, ok I know a little Nothing-Hill town under attack by genetically degenerated spiders is so B-grade predictable, but this movie tries to go one step ahead of its genre. Its special effects are what make it worth a look, the crawling monsters are pretty well - and scary - portrayed, and as a matter of fact I will not recommend this film to those who suffer from arachnophobia, beware on advance it might no let you sleep for a week or so! To state a more clear overview of the film, imagine that this movie is a re-edition of one of those good old classics like `The Visitor' but with worthy special effects such as the aliens of `Independence Day' or `Godzilla', like I say arachnophobians stay away, but if you are a fan of the genre then this movie is a must see. I think that this film gives a good overview of what sci-fi remakes should be being faithful to the original plot but spicing it with top of the line special effects and a little bit of funny quotes, like the movie `Mars attacks!' Predictable? Yes, A remake? Of course! But fun and freaking enough for a Sunday afternoon when there's nothing else interesting to do and you don't want something Copolla, Stone or such of the sort to watch.  "},{"Title":"A highly entertaining spoof of the old 50's sci-fi horror movies","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a parody of the old B-movies of the 50's, concerning gigantic animals, mostly spiders. It's filled with corny humor and cheesy special effects, which only help to make it a funnier spoof movie. It spoofs a few other well-known movies too, there are references to Indiana Jones, Tarzan and the likes. The plot is far-fetched and extremely cheesy, but it's all in context with the very theme of the movie. The acting is mostly not very convincing, but it once again fits perfectly. Half of the actors are not exactly A-list actors, so they did OK, in my opinion. The characters are either cliches, caricatures or stereotypes, which makes sense, considering it's just a spoof movie. The special effects are pretty good, not great, but good. They definitely fit with the movie perfectly. Something I found particularly funny was the cheesy sound effects and the nice touches that contained great humor; most of the spiders seem to have their own unique personality, which is shown by a collaboration of campy sound effects and comical movements by the spiders. I would recommend this to any person who enjoys spoof movies, especially ones which contain campy humor; I'd also recommend it to anyone who's seen one or more of the old giant spiders movies, and couldn't take it seriously. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Fast-paced, fun flick","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  OK, so it's not exactly a cinematic masterpiece, but it doesn't try to be. The idea of this movie was that it followed a B-movie theme which was fast, furious and a lot of fun to watch. It may not have incredible acting, serious drama or anything that would set it in the bounds of a well-produced film, but its nicely directed action sequences, quick scene changes combined with the clever usage of many minor characters to create lots of scenarios makes it immensely enjoyable to watch. I had as much fun watching this as I did Goodfellas or Terminator. It didn't get a 9 because it isn't snazzy in the stylish sense, but quite frankly its comical outlook and lighthearted approach to a tired genre was very refreshing, i enjoyed every minute of it.If you're looking for an easy night in with something to entertain all ranges, this is definately it. Great entertainment, as popcorn flicks should be.  "},{"Title":"Creepy and funny","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  6/10Monster movies are few and far between nowadays. The B-movie is dying. It's a  shame, because if they were all as entertaining as this we'd all be queuing up to  see them. Not since the masterpiece of Tremors in 1990 has a truly good B- movie come along. We've had the nauseatingly dull and overblown Congo andAnaconda and although we did get the spectacular Independence Day, it wasnever really a monster movie. Now along comes Eight Legged Freaks &#150; anhomage to the monster movies of the fifties and a satire on the more recent films  of this nature. Lines such as, `Come on we got to go! We got to get out of here!  They're coming!' and `They're not aliens they're spiders mutated bycontaminated waste!' don't particularly work if you take them seriously. And this  is where I think a lot of people stumble when they come to view Eight LeggedFreaks. They take it in as though we're still living in the fifties and monster  movies were supposed to be taken seriously. Gremlins started it, Tremorsperfected it and now Eight Legged Freaks is poking fun at it.Ellory Elkayem, the director, has a lot of fun playing around with the clichés and  the actors do a fine job of not over acting. Surprisingly the director is able to  handle both the laughs and the scares with an equal amount of adeptness. It's a  fine and intelligent piece of direction, which you don't often see in Dean Devlin/ Roland Emmerich pictures.It's difficult to criticise a film like this &#150; one that is continually having a laugh at  itself. And while I chuckled throughout and was occasionally creeped out byspiders the size of cars lurking, biting and enveloping; the film never seemed to  rise above its self-referential humour. If the benchmark is Tremors, then this  never lived up to it. By the time the final last stand takes place you've become a  little tired and the ending is much welcomed.But don't be too put off &#150; this is charming, light-hearted, funny, and occasionally  scary stuff. Although there are better films of a similar genre out there this can be  pigeonholed into `perfect popcorn fodder for a dreary Saturday night.'  "},{"Title":"B movie premise but fun and action","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film lived up to everything I expected of it and a little more. This was 'The Blob','Invasion of The Body Snatchers''Them' and many many more 50's b movies with 'Tremors', thrown in for good measure.Acting was as it should be and although predictable, highly entertaining. Get the DVD and watch the short that inspired the film. That's even more creepy. "},{"Title":"Tremors 2","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  How could this fail?  Take a small town in the middle of nowhere, throw in enormous spiders, a B-Movie sensibility and a cameo from The Tooth Fairy and you've essentially got the new Tremors.  But with spiders.  It's scary, hilarious and charming, often all at once.  Cheer for the humans, or cheer for the spiders - you choose. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmm......","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Spiders ingest radioactive waste, grow to enormous proportions, then attack a small town&#133;sounds kind of stupid huh&#133;.there's a good reason for that&#133;.it is.  But, the movie is funny.   Funny enough to make it worth watching if all you want is a few good laughs.  For the most part, the cast works well together.  No one cast member makes a stand out performance, but one wouldn't expect that; they don't have much to work with.  The special effects aren't bad, and the storyline even has a couple of sub plots to it (though limited they may be).  There are two heroes, a bit of a romance, a genius kid, teenagers with growing pains and even a neo-bad guy (other than the spiders). Not bad for a movie with a title like `Eight Legged Freaks'.  So, watch it, take it for what it is, and have a good time.  "}{"Title":"Just relax and enjoy it!!","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Have to feel bad for those of you who didn't like this movie.  Is it a great thinker??  Nah; doesn't try to be.  Just a good, sit down with the big bucket of popcorn, and have at it kind of flic.  Good looking people, funny as hell, enough great quotes to fill a notebook...  I like a movie that doesn't try to be anything more that it is, and this one you just take at face value.  If you like to pick at things, you'll find a lot here, but me?? I just want to be entertained for a while, and in this I was; totally!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Do have to say one other thing, tho, just *have* to-) As a lover of old monster movies, and imho, this was a great homage to such, the only - only thing that annoyed me was that when they showed clips of Them on the son's tv, one of my favorite movies of all time, they showed the scenes out of order.  But, I can live with it!! "},{"Title":"SHAME ON THE CRITICS! THIS MOVIE IS GOOD!","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Hey! David Arquette did very well in this movie. Like most horror spoofs of mutant spiders, this one really took it on a funnier note. It wasn't all too scary, nor was it very gory. It was just perfect for spoof fans. If you like Kingdom of the Spiders with William Shatner, you enjoy Eight Legged Freaks You'll have a ball with it. 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Cool entertaintment","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A bad/good movie. Just like a b film should be. It is of course also the goal for this movie to look like a poor  horror film from the fifties.Its done very well,great fun worth your while. "},{"Title":"If you like Mystery Science Theater 3000, you'll like this movie","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  As long as you don't take this movie seriously, you'll have a good time watching it. It is very firmly a throwback to the giant monster movies of the 1950's. The premise is a familar one; 'something', be it radiation or chemical causes a lifeform, usually in a small out of the way location, to hideously mutate and grow. In this case, it happens to be spiders. The acting is cheesy. The special effects are good. Grab a bowl of popcorn and a bag of licorice and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Do you hate spiders? Do you really hate spiders? Well they dont like you either!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Prosperity, Arizona. A nice quiet and peaceful little town in the middle of nowhere. That is until spiders from an exotic spider farm escape and feast on some toxic goo....they grow to dramatic proportions..and guess what...they're hungry!Now, this film doesnt try to be anything else. Its quite simply a tongue-firmly-in-cheek slice of comedy/horror. Altho horror is kept to a minimum. It simply pays homage to the classic B-Movies of the 50s and early 60s.David Arquette plays Chris McCormack, i wud-be hero who makes his mixed-welcome appearence back in the town. Then there is sam. The towns female Sheriff. Together, they are going to face the BIGGEST challenge of their lives.....As the town is descended upon by mutant spiders the size of cars, people flee for their lives. The spiders were incredible. I havent seen spiders this realistic since i saw Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets (2002).The film is intense in some parts, with just the right amount of humour, to keep the merciless deaths just a little bit on the warm side. Dont expect a gore-fest. and dont expect this film to win any awards. But its great entertainment for everyone. Me, being a chronic arachnophobic, was cringing through the entire film, but even so, i thoroughally enjoyed it. The script worked well, and it wasnt on too long either.Whether you love it, or hate it, Eight legged Freaks is the best monster movie we have seen for years.... "},{"Title":"A really terrible name for a slightly above average movie.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Director, Ellory Elkayem, has all the elements that make a great horror flick, but somehow just misses being able to make anything truly special out of them.  The scripting does a pretty good job of providing the tension - release necessary to make you jump out of your seat occasionally. Arquette basically plays the same character he portrayed in the 'Scream' series. That's ok, it's what's called for in this movie as well . . . a bumbling, head-strong, likeable hero.  And, really that's where the biggest disappointment (other than the dumb name) lies.  With one exception, everyone plays his or her role adequately but there's nothing special. Geeky kid who no one listens to until its almost too late (ok); bad guy mayor (ok); tough single-mom-sheriff-love-interest (slightly better than ok); belligerent teen daughter who is actually a good kid just trying to spread her wings (actually pretty good); and intellectually challenged deputy who manages to come through in the end (borderline).  The one truly bright casting move is the paranoid talk show host given just the right touch of crazed prophet by Doug E. Doug.  Doug (works for either first or last name) is probably best remembered for his inspired character acting in early '90s comedies like Class Act also fairly recently spent a stint as one of Hollywood's Squares.Some of the special effects are really outstanding, but they seem to be somewhat wasted on this cast.  So, if you like the genre, it's probably worth at least one viewing, but this is not the movie to introduce into the ranks of fans of 'nature gone wild' science fiction.  "},{"Title":"100% pure fun!  Yeah baby!!!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is definitely one of the best monster shows ever.  It has everything.  Excitement, suspense, humor, shoot 'em up action and even good ol' fashioned swatting on a large scale.  The movie may not be the most scientifically accurate film in the world, but it doesn't try to be, and that's not the point of the show.  Personally I haven't seen too many mutated giant spiders listed in the encyclopedias, so there really isn't any real world example to compare them to as far as behavior patterns or markings etc. etc...  Taking this movie at face value, I paid my money, went into a theater expecting a lousy piece of excrement like Rats and I was completely taken aback.  I went in prepared to give ELF a bad rap, and I was so impressed that I now own it on DVD.  The acting is actually GOOD, something that is very rare in this genre.  The movie has lots of action, but it never degenerates into the typical run run scream scream flick.  It always remains a give-and-take free for all, which is quite refreshing.  I can't recommend this movie enough.  It may not be the greatest movie of all time.  It's definitely not the most deeply plotted movie of all time (ELF should be easily understood by all but the most hopeless of brain damage victims)  but it IS the most fun and memorable movie I've seen in a long time.  Also, IT IS NOT A RIPOFF OF TREMORS!!!  I have seen all three Tremors many times, and ELF is nothing like them.  Just because the tongue-in-cheek attitude is similar, that doesn't make it a ripoff.  Watch this movie expecting to have a good time.  But mostly, just watch this movie!  If you haven't seen it, do so now!  In conclusion, I have to say, this movie is pretty well summed up by it's own slogan...Let the SQUASHING begin! "},{"Title":"Fun movie, in the spirit of Tremors","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I watch movies for fun, and this was fun.If you demand M. Night Shyamalan intricate airtight plots, this isn't your movie.  But it's fun, fast-moving, funny, some good jumps, some good suspense, likable leads... it's fun! "},{"Title":"Very good movie from start to finish for all the family.","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Who of you out there hate spiders?if you do, then i would give this one a miss, but if you think your brave enough, its definetly cinema quality, thats if you can stand David Arquette for 1 1/2 hours playing the same character detective duey out of scream, also starring are the sexy Kari Wuhrer from anaconda and Slider the tv series and a new star to hit the screens, who i see that has alot of potential Scarlett Johansson, watch out for this one.The graphics in this movie i will give an 8/10, very good except for the jumping spiders, if you see the movie you will no what i mean.The thing i loved about this movie is that its funny, unique in its own kind of way and action packed all of the last 50 minutes.And if anything the first 40 minutes is quite slow.a new director to hit our screens but a word of advice to him is to forget about Arquette.  Sorry but i just dont like him.I hope you movie buffs out there follow my advice and check this one out, its got a 7/10 in my books.  "},{"Title":"Lot like Tremors, which is a good thing.","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is a hell of a lot like Tremors, and I give Eight legged freaks points for just trying to beat it.*Spoilers*When all kinds of species of spiders are contaminated with the toxic waste that is accidently dumped into a local river/lake, they mutate into giant killing machines.Amazing special effects definetley bring the freaks to life, and mixed with great acting by fresh actors and humour equals a serious challenger to Tremors.Like Tremors, it's not gorey, just a little gross - well - probably not even that. Also I noticed when the spiders were attacking the mall one of the spiders up on the ledge was waving them in - like a commander. I thought this was funny - like lots of other things in the movie.In my book, Tremors comes first, but Eight Legged Freaks gives it a run for it's money and is the second best sci-fi/comedy spoof i've seen.8.7/10By the way, if you don't like spiders you probably shouldn't see it. "}{"Title":"Monster-flick the way they should be made","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well if you are looking for serious movie, tackling environmental and sociological issues and using the monsters as a crystal clear product of the human degenerated way of life, you have definitely come to the WRONGH place! If you on the other hand are looking for a fun, easy going, self-ironic, goo-filled and delightfully exaggerated monster-flick that'll make you crack open from laughing, you sure have come to the right place. Don't be to overly concerned by the acting or the few holes in the plot - Keep in mind that Eight Legged Freaks is a monster-flick, and more than true to this genre. I'll give it 9/10 any day.  "},{"Title":"Great B-Movie fun, could need more splatter","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you like to watch realistic movies, romantic movies and stuff, then this is definitely not for you. ELF is some of the best popcorn movies i have seen for years. Good looking monsters (especially the real big ones rule), all stereotypes needed (toxic waste, non-believed children, crying women, cash-hungry old men, young saviors) and a lot of action. And the best thing about this movie is, that it's partly self-spoofing. For example the little boy that exactly knows (and says) that noone will believe a little child. Or like a big spider trying to attack a deer head on the wall. As the producers said they're big fans of 50s B-Movies and you can see that in every single scene. As some might say (or have said) the acting is not that good, but i think that fits perfectly the whole concept of the movie. It even has some of the good illogical parts like the motorbike in the mine ;) You know what i mean... So, all in all i would've give it 10 stars if there were more splatter in it (scenes like the chainsaw cutting). But that's my personal taste, splatter isn't the prevalent part of B-Movies, so i guess it's ok.All in all Watch it and have fun. Nothing more but for sure nothing less "},{"Title":"Silly and bad acting but good fun!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  To set the scene, a barrel of toxic waste leaks into a lake in Arizona.  We are introduced to a kid who is obsessed by spiders and pays regular visits to the owner of the local exotic spider farm.  During one visit, it is revealed how the toxic waste has given rise to fauna which when fed to the spiders causes the arachnids to grow at an alarming rate.  Pay attention to this bit as the titbits of information relating to spider behaviour provided by the owner will all be put to use later on in the film! It doesn't take long before the giant spiders get hungry and threaten the lives of both local residents and pets.  Led by the local Sheriff (who happens to be the mother of the aforementioned spider-obsessed kid) and Chris McCormack (David Arquette), the people of Arizona fight back. David Arquette makes for a likeable and slightly goofy hero but one feels that the romantic sub-plot has just been thrown in.  The Sheriff is far too foxy to be convincing in the role and as is often the case in these monster-type movies, the kids often appear unphased.   The 12 certificate prevents the film from being too gory but the special effects are realistic enough to make the skin of anyone with any hint of arachnophobia crawl.  &#145;Eight Legged Freaks' is definitely played for laughs rather than scares which are often predictable with pets and grannies going down dark holes they really shouldn't be going down!  The finale is pure mayhem with the whole town being forced to fight back with guns and chainsaws as well as other more inappropriate weapons.It is unlikely that anyone will be going into this film expecting anything other than a simplistic, silly and totally implausible storyline but I did have a lot of fun watching it.  "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated summer movies.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks was a great old fashioned monster movie. It had an wonderful cast of character actors and very good special effects. I am looking forward to buying it on d.v.d. so I can watch it again.I would recommend this movie to anyone who grew up watching 50's monster movies like me. "},{"Title":"Pretty darn awful","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was pure unadulterated tripe. Every stereotype in the book was here - every 'quirky' one-liner was here. Every predictable moment was here. Performances were *ok* if bearable.The effects were excellent, and the spiders looked real.Put simply it's trash and knows it is, not to be taken remotely seriously. If you enjoy this, fair dues, just don't expect a 'fun' movie - it doesn't even warrant that.  "},{"Title":"really funny, lots of jumps and at times slightly scary","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  What can I say, well I'm not gonna say that much coz I'm really tired and I can't be bothered going deep into this. But that doesn't mean it doesnt deserve that, it does. Anyway this film was just really entertaining and I loved it, it was really funny and people are complaining about the acting, but it wasn't that bad, I mean most of the time they would have to be running for thier lives, it's not one of those really emotional movies where the acting has to be perfectly into what thier doing, it's still got quite good actors/actresses in it anyway, including David Arquette, Scott terra, and scarlett johansson. Anyway its really good and I could watch it over and over again and it wouldn't get old, see it it's really cool, 9 out of 10Francesca Orr    "},{"Title":"A Fun & Scary Rollercoaster Ride","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  As a kid growing up, I watched many a monster movie from the 50s and 60s on afternoon and late-night airings.  This film truly captures the feel of those memorable flicks (such as Them) in a wonderful hearkening back to such classics.  I found it to have all the star qualities of a good monster film likable heros, lots of action and scariness infused with humor, and most of all, very creepy and frightening monsters, in this case spiders.  I went to see MIB II the day before, and enjoyed this film ten times better and had a more enjoyable time that left me smiling as I left the theater. It is nice to know that someone remembers how such films need to be made. I plan to add this to my movie library when it is released. "},{"Title":"Funny dialouge, jumpy sceens, lame plot, but a lot of fun to watch","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was a B+ movie. Pretty good eye candy. And you get a few laughs. But there were a few flaws. Example (spoilers) why would a guy have over 1,000 DEADLY spiders contained in open areas? And didn't the sherrif's daughter hate the guy who made a move on her and then at the end she takes him back? I'm confused. But mostly this is a movie you'll have to see for yourself in order to understand what it is. But I will warn you, that it does have a few scares. So if you hate spiders, or men who dress up like spiders, wait that was spider man. Just be afraid. And follow the tagline. Do you hate spiders? do you really hate spiders? Well, maybe they don't like you!!!!7/10 "},{"Title":"Creature feature with a comedy twist...","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Despite the really bizarre and misplaced attempt at humor that director Ellory Elkayem opted for Eight Legged Freaks, then this 2002 movie is still worth watching if you enjoy a monstrous creature feature.The story, in all its simplicity, is about a small town that become the hunting grounds for huge, aggressive spiders.While this movie doesn't instill any academy award winning moments, then people still managed to do good jobs with their given roles and characters. Most memorable was Doug E. Doug as the eccentric Harlan Griffith.The spiders in Eight Legged Freaks were actually quite nicely animated and did look like real arachnids. Well, aside from the sounds they made at times, which were epic fails at bringing comedy into the movie. It was a shame, because this actually dragged the movie down into a mediocre experience.Yes, there are far better spider movies available, but I do think that if you enjoy such movies then Eight Legged Freaks is still worth sitting down to watch, just tune out the ridiculous sounds that were added to the spiders in many scenes. "},{"Title":"Spiders unleashed","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Eight Legged Freaks wants to be old fashioned B movie with broad acting, some comedy and scares, gooey effects and hopefully remind you of the early 1990s horror comedy Tremors.A barrel of toxic waste leaks into a lake in Arizona which causes spiders to grow at an alarming rate who get hungry and set about attacking the local town. Just be grateful that the toxic waste did not give rise to Zombeavers.The female local sheriff (Kari Wuhrer) and Chris McCormack (David Arquette) a bad boy who has returned home after some years lead the town's fight back. Arquette does well as the goofy hero like the type he played in the Scream films, just about likable enough and gets a romance subplot with the sheriff. Scarlett Johansson plays the sheriff's headstrong teenage daughter. Doug E Doug plays the local conspiracy nut. The wealthy town mayor is the bad guy.The finale at the mall goes on for too long as the entire town throws everything at the giant spiders. The film is fun and goofy enough, not really scary but also not memorable. A fast food snack that you will forget about the next day. Maybe because it cynically was a corporate attempt to be a monster B movie and lacked heart. "}{"Title":"one of my all time favorite movies","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" So as a kid I use to watch this movie ALL the time, ever since the first time i saw this movie iv loved it ever since. The cast i thought was done well, the acting wasn't bad but then again this movie is about giant spiders so you shouldn't take this movie so seriously to begin with. The spiders looked pretty cool and they ranged from all different kinds of spiders from jumping spiders to trapdoor spiders even to a giant tarantula. The action scenes were amazing, my favorite being the dirt bike/spider chase scene. You can obviously tell that the directors had a fun time making this movie and I can certainly see why. i give 8/10 stars "},{"Title":"Amusing horror/comedy with Scar-Jo & Kari Wuhrer","Date":"26 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" As the name would indicate, Eight Legged Freaks shouldn't be taken too seriously. It's a horror comedy about a variety of arachnids growing huge due to -- what else? -- accidentally spilled toxic waste. They terrorize the citizens of Prosperity, Arizona, where Kari Wuhrer plays the Sheriff, Scarlett Johansson her teen daughter, and David Arquette the Sheriff's love interest.The plot of terrorizing arachnids in an Arizona town automatically brings to mind 1977's Kingdom of the Spiders with William Shatner, but that movie took the topic serious and the tarantulas were normal size.The Arizona locations are great and the movie is consistently amusing as Eight Legged Freaks is just a fun flick, but the main highlight is the mother/daughter combo of Kari Wuhrer and Scar-Jo. Kari has a strikingly attractive face and personality and Scar-Jo was 17 years-old during filming and looks great in tight pants.On the downside the film seems too long at 99 minutes because there isn't enough depth to the characters and their story to warrant going over like 85 minutes. As such, the final act in the mall, mines, etc. seems to go on forever. Another criticism is that the spider F/X appear too cartoony (I'm sure they looked better in 2002), but this is hardly a flaw in that the movie itself is cartoony. My main beef is that Scar-Jo isn't prominent enough, but that's likely because she was only 17 and wouldn't become a star until her next film, 2003' excellent Lost in Translation. On the other hand, Wuhrer is very prominent.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"These eight legged fiends score an eight","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Spider haters beware. Another creature feature, that is so much fun, just not for spider haters. It has a surprisingly good script, and a probable story, stretched I guess, a little bit. When spiders feed off this toxic waste, they augment to gigantic proportions, and the whole show town becomes their pray. I must say, the whole spider thing is well staged. The spiders look awesome. If you hated Arachnophobia, then make this one, the last film, you'll never want to see. It's a great starring vehicle for Arquette, who returns to town to his old love, cop, Wuhner, who's arrest of some young teens, mirrors that same familiar scene with cop, Shue, in Piranha. The thrilling action and spiders come in spades making for a great monster flick, with a little bit of sappy romance, which heightens it's quality some. This is much better than a lot of type of monster, pick off victims, flicks. It even has the killer from Manhunter, of all people, as a geeky hermit who has a fascination with, of course spiders, who Wuhner's nerdy son hangs out with. Just leave your brain at the door, sit back and enjoy the guilty pleasure ride and popcorn flick, and let the spiders do their thing. "},{"Title":"Hahaha","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I went into seeing this movie with a clear idea in my mind it would be an unpretentious movie with the objective of entertaining and providing some laughs. In fact, I was right. Eight Legged Freaks utilizes some aspects of the scary 1990's Arachnophobia and creates some giant spiders that terrify a small city. As very expected for this kind of movie, the main characters always end up escaping from the monsters, whilst the unimportant subplot dies in a matter of seconds. I must confess the cast is very professional, with big congratulations to Kari Wuhrer and David Arquette-- this one, for finally doing a decent job, after his boring character at Scream's franchise. My only complaint is that the movie feels overlong, specially for me who hates action scenes, since there were minutes and minutes of never ending running away. Good and funny movie anyways. "},{"Title":"Mildly Amusing","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Eight Legged Freaks is a comedy horror that stars David Arquette, Kari Wührer and Scott Terra. The plot concerns a collection of spiders that are exposed to toxic waste, causing them to grow to gigantic proportions and begin killing and harvesting. Chris McCormick is the son of a deceased mine owner, returning home to the economically depressed hamlet of Prosperity, AZ, after a long absence. His arrival coincides with a toxic waste accident in the local water supply, the result of a barrel jostled loose from the back of a passing truck. Unfortunately, said water source abuts the region's least-popular attraction an exotic spider farm. The farm's owner,Joshua Taft becomes the first victim when the spiders, already possessed of keen predatory abilities, grow to the size of small automobiles. Laying in wait underground, they begin picking off the town's pet and ostrich population, and soon it's all the local sheriff,Sam Parker can do to raise the alarm before the siege begins.In the grand tradition of atomic-age monster movies, this movie delivers everything you'd want from a giant-spider thriller. The plot's hardly original, but familiarity is half the fun, beginning when toxic waste results in a stampede of gigantic, ravenous arachnids in the depressed mining town.Though not quite witty,it offers a deft balance of creepy shocks, sight gags, and tongue-in-cheek satire. And it is mildly amusing as well. "},{"Title":"Campy and funny","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I love this movie!!! It is so campy and funny!!! It actually starts out decent except for the truck driver who starts it all by swerving to avoid a rabbit. What trucker is going to try and avoid a rabbit? The time line is way too accelerated, I don't think the spiders would get so big in such a short time even toxin filled crickets? Oh well. But when the spiders get bigger it really starts to get funny. I still can not figure out what is up with the mayors teeth, they seem to be trying to look a little like a vampires but not quite. If those are his real teeth he must not be a real actor or he would have them fixed. The cat in the wall is pretty funny except that dry wall would not imprint that easy, especially with spider bodies. When Scarlett Johannson zaps mister horny with the stun gun it is well deserved, no means no. The perfume use is hilarious. The kid that is finally listened too is pretty cool. When every one who is still alive manages to get to the theater things come to a head. People die, spiders splatter, the green ichor is a bit much but hey they are mutants, right? I think David Arquette does a decent job here unlike some I have seen him in (Idiocracy for one). TTFN. "},{"Title":"Attack of the spiders","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Or as the original title said Arac Attack. Why did they change it? It seems the production company got cold feet, because the title was too close/similar to something completely different (Arac sounding a bit like Iraq it seems). But apart from that little trivia fact (which shouldn't make you think this movie is political or anything serious for that matter), the movie can be a whole lotta fun. Not a movie that will make the top 10 list of many people mind you, but something you can watch to have a good time.The movie knows where it comes from and pays tribute/homage to the early monster/animal movies that paved the way for this movie. It is apparent by quite a few story tweaks and twists, what it means and tries to achieve. Just put in the disc, press play, get a few friends over and have a good time. If you are into such things that is. "},{"Title":"a good time","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Zany creature feature is a clever, entertaining cross between Arachnophobia and Men in Black. The film is set in a rural, southwestern mining town populated with an array of spiders. After a drastic chemical spill, the spiders become exposed to the mixture and grow to gigantic proportions, causing havoc to ensue among local inhabitants. Their only chance for survival is to band together, take shelter, and try to get help before the spiders have a chance to become the new dominant species. The film is derivative, to be sure, but it's elevated by nifty special effects, enthusiastic performances, and more than enough cheesy gross-out gags. Lots of fun. *** "},{"Title":"a very funny scifi/comedy movie since mars attacks","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" this has to be one of the best mix of horror/comedy/scifi since 1996's mars attacks. david arquette is a very good actor and so is doug E doug.  the plot was very original and i give this an 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Hot weather movie","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Another in the long line of mutated-insects-that-turn-into-man-killing-beasts and try to take over the world movies. This time it's spiders that grow to the size of Buicks and attack a small town in Texas. I was always quite charmed by the 1950s insect b-movies. Their earnestness and wonky science always gave me a chuckle, while the under current of cold war nuclear mutation gone wrong gave them some kind of context. 8 Legged Freaks has the cockeyed science, but delivers relatively few thrills. It is content to be goofy rather than frightening, and reeks of post modern irony. Having said that, the colossal arachnids are pretty cool, the CGI is good and there is at least one thrill-ride as huge leaping spiders chase a group of boys on motorcycles. This is what I call a heat wave movie. On those days when it is oppressively hot, and you just want to sit in air conditioning for a couple of hours, you could do worse than 8 Legged Freaks. "}{"Title":"A Little Too Silly","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks (what a stupid title), is a campy homage to the classic big-bug sci-fi movies of the fifties. I loved those movies as a kid, so I had to check this one out. It was worth the three dollar rental is all I can say.  The story is pretty standard spiders eat toxic waste and grow to giant proportions, and you know what happens next. Acting and plot are pretty bad, but some of the special effects are quite good, (the tarantula in particular). It has some funny bits, but I think they went overboard with the camp, especially the goofy sounds the spiders make.I wish they had gone for a darker, scarier tone with this flick.  With these special effects it would pack quite a wallop.  I can think of few things more horrifying than having your innards sucked out by a giant spider. I guess they figured people couldn't handle anything that scary, too bad.  I would like see the director's original film Larger Than Life.Bottom line not scary, just cheesy.  "},{"Title":"Gleefully campy.","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  In the grand tradition of Gremlins and Tremors, this movie drives full-steam ahead into the satirical horror movie genre. The key to this movie's success is the tone, which is set from the onset by the title alone.  Some movies are unintentionally humorous, but Eight Legged Freaks is plainly and gleefully tongue-in-cheek, as it pokes fun at nearly every horror movie cliche.  I think the tone is also set in large part by the score.  From the opening shots, the music is playful and screams B-movie.  Once you recognize the campy attitude, you can rachet down any serious expectations and enjoy the show.    The story can be summed up in two words.  Spiders attack.  And do they ever.  Once the necessary but lame stage-setting is done with, the spiders arrive to provide the movie's best visuals, attacking with excessive violence that spawns laughter with every aggressive movement.  That's not necessarily surprising.  What is surprising is the humor the spiders provide.  From attacking a stuffed deer head to being dragged behind the bumper of a car, the anthropomorphic arachnids achieve a higher level of comedy than any actor in the movie.  Many of the spiders are computer-generated, often obviously so.  But I think this is intentional, adding to the campiness.  The sounds effects also enhance the feel of the movie. Often they are cartoonish, as the spiders giggle (seriously), squeal, liquify, and go splat.  Just the sheer size of the spiders is hilarious too, particularly when they engulf their human prey.  The acting is nothing to speak of, everyone is suitable, but no one stands out.  In contrast to most movies, the humans are the props here, just people for the spiders to 'act' against.  When the people do act, they're usually lapsing into horror movie cliches, such as poking their heads into dark places and running off alone to save the town.  These norms are combined with some freshness, which presents itself most blatantly in a X-Games scene in which the giant spiders chase down teenagers on dirtbikes.  Fun stuff.Better to see than relate, Eight Legged Freaks is something that hasn't been done well lately, a B-movie that knows it's a B-movie. Not great, but highly entertaining.Bottom Line  Everything one could want from this type of movie.  You'll laugh; you'll wince; you'll enjoy. 7 of 10.    "},{"Title":"A Cute Homage to Bert I. Gordon, et al...","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" ...but what studio exec thought adding cartoon sound effects was a good idea? The smaller spiders in this otherwise decent, albeit goofy flick make similar noises to the Gremlins (if I recall correctly) and other similar cartoony critters, squeaking and tittering as they rampage. This decision smacks of last minute save by producers trying to be creative and wishing to add comedic value to the effort. These sound effects are so distracting they take a B-picture down a couple of notches. The special effects are top notch and the cast is game enough, but whatever clod thought those sounds was a good idea deserves to be cocooned and eaten. This is basically the same movie as `Earth Vs. the Spider', `Giant Spider Invasion' and countless others in this mold, which is not a put down.  "},{"Title":"Amazing Spiders, Man","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  In order to enjoy Eight Legged Freaks, it helps if you don't take it seriously.  It's clear that the makers of this movie intended it to be a tribute to the old monster movies of the '50s.  It helps that Eight Legged Freaks isn't too campy or spoofy, but just the right amount.  The best performance has to be Doug E. Doug as Harlan, the paranoid radio host.  Anyway, I'd say that Eight Legged Freaks is worth a look.  Who knows?  You might get caught in its web! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Great!","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I really did enjoy this movie. It was fun and had a lot of humor in wich I liked. it also had some startling moments. Everything you need for a good campy movie like this! The name I'm not too crazy about, but something to overlook. Go see this movie! (8/10) "},{"Title":"One of the best of 2002","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I just love movies like this.This movie reminds me of Lake placid,it has a lot of thrills and it's very funny too.The special effects are fantastic and the cast is pretty good as well.So if you want a good treat check out Eight legged freaks. 8/10 "},{"Title":"An instant classic cult horror movie!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Anyone who gives this film a bad review simply didn't get it. It wasn't ever supposed to take itself seriously as a traditional horror movie. I mean come on, the plot is about a barrel of toxic waste leaking near a small town and causing a collection on exotic spiders to mutate to giant proportions. You can pretty much guess what happens next...This film is a tribute to every great sci-fi/horror movie since the 1950's. It has great special effects and drops you right into the action. It's entertaining from start to finish. What I love most is the total (and I think purposeful) disregard for trying to create that cliche horror 'suspense'. Anyone who walks backwards into a room, or pops their heads through a hole in the wall is immediately eaten by a giant spider! Am I the only person who sees this as deliberate disrespect by the director to all those cheesy horror flicks from the 80's )Watch this movie with some squeemish girls for extra laughs ) My wife is terrified of spiders but she loved it despite screaming several times. I made this movie part of my collection immediately. It has a certain charm about it you can watch many times over. If you appreciated 'Mars Attacks', then you'll love this!(8/10)  "},{"Title":"Three Thumbs-Up","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It's just too bad I missed this in the Theater (I would have taken my kids).  I would pay Hollywood to produce just one of these a year.It's far too charming and 50's Sci-Fi to go into details so just invest an hour and a half to rediscover how Disney used to make teen movies.  Every person I've shown the DVD to has found something to giggle at.The director spent just the correct amount of time Desensitizing the audience before he cut louse with the That's just too funny to be Scary stuff.  Special Effects have got the Spiders DOWN.  Not like it was in Lost in Space where they all looked computerized.Folks who don't like it (and their will be plenty who think we need another Blood Bath movie where everyone gets horribly maimed and butchered) should start getting upset NOW.  It's a gemmy this movie will be shown (uncut) every weekend on TBS and TNT starting about a year from now.  Boo Hoo.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good.","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I found this for sale and I thought I would check it out.  I wasn't expecting much, but it turns out I liked this movie.  This is a tale of spiders that mutated from some chemicals and grow to giant size and attack.  Simple enough.  The effects were good and the actors were rather good themselves.  Arquette was good too, and that was somewhat surprising.  There were three or four different types of spiders on the rampage so you got to see them kill in different ways.  The comedy was pretty good too, as this one doesn't take itself to seriously.  I agree with those who said it was like a 50's sci-fi flick and it is definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"Very fun movie to watch","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A chemical spill has caused hundreds of Spiders to mutate.The spiders now at least 5 times their size wreak havoc on a small Arizona mining town.Mike Parker(Scott Tera) warns his mother Sheriff Sam Parker(Kari Wuher) of the problem.But she doesn't take him seriously until it's too late.Chris(David Arquette)and Sam along with her son Mike and daughter Ashley(Scarlett Johansson) and Deputy Pete Willis(Rick Overton) drive over to where a man named Harland(Doug E. Doug) does his local radio show about conspiracies.While there they warn the townspeople of the attack. They tell everyone to meet up at the mall.Once at the mall the spiders attack and then come even more laughs.If you're a fan of 50's Sci-fi mutated spider movies then this is for you.It's a great spoof.Director Ellroy Elkayem does fine job in keeping the laughs going.Doug E. Doug and Rick Overton are hysterical.It's good too see Kari Wuher in a mainstream film, she is a talented actress who's never really got a shot at the big time.I would rate her in the top two best looking actresses out there.Eight Legged Freaks is a really fun movie worth checking outI give Eight Legged Freaks 7/10 "}{"Title":"Just turn your brain off...","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, in my opinion, there are two types of cinema  There are films, which are well made, poingant, with a message, or are going for the all-mighty Oscar...and there are movies. Designed to (*gasp*) ENTERTAIN, these movies are sometimes of the blockbuster or popcorn variety, but usually plagued by short theatrical runs and blessed with a long shelf life on video and DVD.(end super run-on).  Eight Legged Freaks definitely falls into that second category, the type of flick where suspension of disbelief is required in spades.  This movie has technical, editorial, and plot errors galore.  The acting is at times hammish, and the dialoge is also at times quite hokey. That said, this movie, although I was already looking forward to it, was one of the best surprises of the summer of '02, and indeed the whole year. In a summer dominated by blockbuster after blockbuster (it was an incredible season of movies, wasn't it?...especially compared to recent years) this movie was refreshingly simple and enjoyable.  It harkens back to a time when horror filmmakers didn't rely on obscene amounts of blood and cheap scares to make their movies work...but by drawing on those most basic human fears...insects, snakes, and the unknown.  Its actually kind of hard to catagorise this movie as horror, as its obvious it was intended more as a campy, shlocky homage to 50's sci-fi  (the spiders grew as a result of radioactive toxic waste...how 50's/60's is that?).  I put it more in the comedy category, as that is where this movie's strengths lie (well, the effects were top notch as well). John Ottman's inclusion of the itsy bitsy spider in the score, while at once obvious, also adds an interesting bit of irony, especially in the scenes where it is most prevelant.  While Emmerich and Devlin are not at all my favorite filmmakers of the genre, this film definitely acted as a mint to calm the bad taste Godzilla left in my mouth, and I'm quite interested to see what Elory Elkayem does next.In short, turn off the film critic inside when you watch this filck. Just expect to have a good time with this movie that does have a few surprises, easily regurgitated one-liners, and (as if there is any other reason than this) GIANT FREAKIN' SPIDERS.  Do it, and I guarantee you won't be dissapointed.  "},{"Title":"FUN!!!!!!!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I loved this movie! If you don't like it then lighten up man. If you don't think about how crazy the plot is you will have a good time. It has everything you could want out of a campy B- movie,giant spiders,funny comic relief,cheesy special effects,and townspeople blowing away giant spiders with shotguns. FUN MOVIE!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"goofy fun.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was kind of like TREMORS. It was goofy, but it was supposed to be goofy, so  how can you go wrong?I really wish they would not use this fake CGI, but it IS a big budget Hollywood movie. Sigh............... "},{"Title":"Great Special Effects Wasted","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks is a waste of some very impressive, expensive, high-tech special effects. The giant monster spiders are very realistic, scary, and cool. But the filmmakers don't have any idea how to use them. This comedy-horror hybrid is really just a failed attempt to replicate the cult-success of Tremors (which it gleefully rips off at every turn). Unfortunately, the makers of 8LF have the mixture of comedy to horror completely wrong, negating the effectiveness of both. Instead of letting the comedy come from the relationships and reactions of well-written characters, the makers of 8LF go for dumb, cartoonish sight gags (the worst being a cat being smashed into a wall and leaving a perfect cat-impression in it, just like in a Tom and Jerry Cartoon--a gag repeated several times in a row) and way too many tired bits of verbal humor. You don't nessesarily need characters you can relate to or like in a spoof--but they are absolutely nessesary in a monster movie of this kind. If you don't care about the characters, you won't be scared when they are in danger.They should have decided at the beginning are we gonna make an all-out spoof, or a horror movie?  Because the film they made shows that they obviously don't have the talent to create a film that is both. The director should stick to being a special effects man and let people who know how to create characters and tell stories do the rest. "},{"Title":"Decent.","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Released last year right around the same time as REIGN OF FIRE, EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS became one of the biggest hits of the year when MEN IN BLACK II turned out to be an utter disappointment to most people. So, knowing all of this, I just had to see it. And, yes, the people were right, this movie is probably the movie we were hoping for in MEN IN BLACK II. Since the writers and director are all unknown, they had to hide behind producer Dean Devlin, who produced the awesome sci-fi flicks, GODZILLA and INDEPENDENCE DAY.David Arquette (SCREAM), Kari Wuher (ANACONDA), join Doug E. Doug, Scarlett Johansen and many others as they run around town which has been over-run by gigantic, mutated spiders.(MINOR SPOILERS) The movie is not bad. It is actually worthy for an action adventure (especially since it is starring the remarkably goofy Arquette). I did not really think this movie was all that funny. Partially because every little, cute animal that comes along gets offed. I didn't really think the scene where the cat was getting killed in the air vent and we see his face and paw prints coming through the wall was all that funny, either. But the characters who always manage to get away with a few close calls are sometimes funny. The plot is typical action story, but the main thing this movie has going for it is the fact that the spiders were well-animated. The movie also never slows down. It is mainly action from the minute the spiders begin their attacks. This is good...Anyone who liked movies like JURASSIC PARK, THE TIME MACHINE, PLANET OF THE APES, REIGN OF FIRE, ANACONDA, LAKE PLACID, DEEP BLUE SEA, BATS, DANTE'S PEAK, GODZILLA, INDEPENDENCE DAY, VOLCANO, you know, little stuff like that...is bound to like this movie.EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, creepy, campy, FUN!!!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was a little skeptical about watching Eight Legged Freaks because I LOATHE spiders. They're hairy and they have way too many legs. But I thought this movie was funny! The spiders made noises every time they were shot and they had all this goo splattering out of them. The parts where the people were getting wrapped up in the cocoons were pretty nasty. But this movie was a lot of fun to watch. David Arquette brings humor into just about all his roles even if they're not meant to be funny. I think this movie didn't bother me all that much because I knew the spiders were fake. But I can't watch Arachniphobia because those spiders are real!! Anyways. Eight Legged Freaks was funny, cheesy, and just plain fun. Talk to you laters ~!!  "},{"Title":"better than I thought","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I first saw the previews to this movie I was reluctant to see it.  I thought it was just another dull comedy movie.  Then when I was with a friend we rented it and saw it and I must say that this movie turned out to be funnier than I thought it would be.  This movie is almost like a cross between Tremors and Gremlins with the way the spiders mutated and tried to invade the town, and of course you have the one guy believing it is government cover up.  If you want a half way good laugh I would so check this movie out. "},{"Title":"The horror is in the awfulness of the script","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The creature special effects aren't bad, but even the best effects couldn't begin to compensate for the mind-numbing script. Eight-Legged Freaks aims for the easy-going tribute/satire tone of Tremors and Lake Placid, movies that unambitiously riff on old silly monster movies. Instead, it misses in a scattershot way that's remindful of Mars Attacks, only dopey and unfunny. Rather than trashing stereotypes and cliches like the aforementioned movies it merely recycles them, such as the scene in which rescuer David Arquette unbelievably outruns an exploding fireball on a dirtbike. The acting performances are sometimes painful to watch. All told, a truly tedious, wearisome, and headache-inducing movie. "},{"Title":"Burt I. Gordon, eat your heart out!","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw the one-sheet (poster) for this at the very theater I used to work at years ago. I thought to myself this was a remake of 'Earth vs. the Spider', and I thought who would see this?People I talked to said this was a good movie, so I decided to give it a shot. I must admit, I was impressed! Yep, it is a knock-off of sorts of the old Burt I. Gordon movies, but there is just enough camp about it that makes it really good, even funny. The special effects aren't spiders on a post cards, and they don't use a stuffed deer leg for the close-ups, in fact the special effects were quite good. The plot is your basic toxic-waste-in-the-water-supply-making-the-spiders-huge type thing, but this is another one that is a tribute to the old 50s giant bugs genre. It's funny, but not too scary. My kids got a kick out of it, and so did I.  "},{"Title":"Fun flick","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'm a very serious film viewer but I still enjoy entertaining B movies as much as anyone. Eight Legged Freaks is just fun to watch. Kari Wuhrer is hot to watch and I've always thought David Arquette was an underrated actor. The special effects are good and the film keeps up a good pace so as not to drag. I do think it could have been better like not having the spiders uttering noises! They give the spiders the same sound effects as the Gremlins had in two movies. And the spiders here really don't act like spiders. Spiders don't go roaming around hunting for food. And why was Arquette's aunt one of two survivors they found in cocoons? Spiders bite and paralyze. But thats just nit-picking. Its a lot of fun to watch and belongs in the category of guilty pleasure. "}{"Title":"OK movie, Bad sound","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Short and Sweet  This movie was fun, but it was ruined by bad sound.  The music was occasionally intrusive, and the spider sounds were just a little too over the top.  If you like quirky movies, give this one a try.  It is meant to be watched tongue in cheek.  My rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent!  A terrific Horror-Comedy!  One of the best in years!","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I have been disappointed with most horror movies I have seen recently (what do I expect, they are horror movies after all), however this one is terrific!  The spiders are nasty, the characters take the spider-attack seriously rather than going for stupid one-liners as their friends are being dragged away, the enemy is merciless, and the comedy is right on queue.The special effects are very impressive, not once did I think that I was looking at a miniature or CGI spider.  I particularly liked the scene with the motorbikes in the desert and the jumping spiders, it was extremely well done.  After a long string of B-movies, Kari Wuhrer proves she can carry a lead role.  OK, it is not Gone with the Wind, but she is tough, she acts well, and you never get the feeling she was given the role solely on her looks (probably true, however she played her character well).  For instance, if you compared her role against the acting of Heidi Schanz in Universal Soldier  The Return, you would give Kari Wuhrer an Oscar.  She never succumbs to lame one-liners, her worry over her children's safety appears genuine, and she is believable in a last-stand-against-the-enemy situation.I loved this movie!  Definitely one for the DVD collection.  Do not go see this movie if you are expecting another Citizen Kane, however at least the title will give you a pretty good idea of what to expect.  It was much, much better than I thought it was going to be.  Even the little Harry Potter know-it-all 12-year old didn't bother me!  He tries to tell the adults about the spiders once, but immediately says, I'm a kid, and they never believe the kid.  He knows how most B-movie horror movies work!The arrival at the end of the movie of the police from another district is classic!  Cocoons?  We got cocoons?  Hey everybody, I told you it would be worth the drive!  HAHAHAHAHAHA!!Excellent.  Well-acted, well-scripted, superb special effects, a completely enjoyable experience. "},{"Title":"Close, but not quite","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was looking forward to a b-movie, with a few chills, and a few giggles, but, got very few of either.  The movie is setup to have a classic b-movie plot.  Some toxic waste has been accidentally dumped in a local water way.  This happens to be the same water way where the guy that owns the local spider-farm gets crickets to feed to his spiders.  The toxic crickets cause the spiders to grow out of control.The spiders and the violence they caused reminded me a great deal of Stormship Troopers.  The spiders weren't so creepy, as being huge over powering beasts.  If you could shoot them a few times, then they could be killed.  Much like the creatures in Stormship Troopers. The humor was also a little off the mark for my tastes.  There were a few attempts to have the movie make fun of itself, and to have some other tongue in cheek humor.  But, I thought the laughs were off the mark. So, the movie didn't quite deliver the laughs, didn't quite deliver the chills.  It did have some good special effects, and some good actions scenes.   "},{"Title":"stupid, but not stupid enough","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has been compared to Tremors, and that's a shame.  Tremors was funny and scary, and sometimes silly.  8LF is just plain stupid.  I rooted for the spiders, and was terribly disappointed when they LOST.  If you see it, rent the DVD and see the short film this travesty was modeled after. The short film is quite good and twice as scary as the full length feature. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!!","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  OK, so it will never receive an any film awards. And it has a plot the requires massive suspension of disbelief. And the script could use some work. But even with all of this being true it was a lot of fun. Decent actors, good special effects, and tongue firmly planed in cheek this movie makes for a rollicking good time. "},{"Title":"Delivered what it promised.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is the best movie about giant spiders eating a town that I've seen in a long time. If you are in the mood to watch people and animals being eaten by mutant arachnids then you must see this movie.Not only does this movie rank fairly high on the list of giant spider films it also stands up quite well when compared to the entire 'mutant creatures/monster/walking dead/space alien/biker gang/etc. attack isolated town' genre of film.Admittedly 'Eight Legged Freaks' doesn't have as good of a story or acting as 'Shawshank Redemption' but then 'Shawshank Redemption' doesn't have people being eaten by giant mutant spiders. It all comes down to what you want to watch in a movie. If you go in expecting to see a B movie about giant spiders them you will be happy with 'Eight Legged Freaks' because it delivers just that. If you are expecting to see a film that will win awards (other than the one for most giant spiders in a film) then rent something else.Did I mention that this movie has a lot of mutant giant spiders in it? "},{"Title":"A great creature feature for killin time","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks is not a movie for everyone, but those who love creature features esp the ones with the corny jokes in them, will most certainly love this film.  Not original in any way and filled with all the typical movie cliches one would expect this movie is not ground breaking but a fun and comedic movie.  If you are a hardcore action/horror fan you probably will not enjoy it, but for the creature lovers out there, its a hit. ) "},{"Title":"Delightfully predictable entertainment","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It's quite amazing how this very predictable film managed to entertain most everyone in the cinema. Story is cooked upon a very formulaic recipe that seems to work in this department - good guys that get the girl and kill the monster (though girls killed too), bad guys that don't believe that there are monsters out there pay for their pragmatic views with their lives, physical humor here and there, weaklings and geeks prove that there's a hero in everyone - all they need is a bit of pushing and shoving. Spiders are the hungry entertainers in this movie - they look, move beautifully and look very -very- realistic. VFX job in this flick is simply superb. 80's are over and so are the 90's. This movie proves that since teenagers don't have sex any longer. Instead they listen to their parent's advice and perform every known act of political correctness.5 for the movie, 9 for SFX, overall a good 7 "},{"Title":"arachnophobe not afraid of these guys","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I am an arachnophobe but hey it was raining so what the hell, this movie deserves a 12 certificate because it completely fails to provide any scares or any nasty monsters or anything that would make a monster movie fan want to do anything other than watch Them again, generic characters, a few good jokes and an indiana jones reference aside this is probably a contender for most overrated movie of the year. I recommend it highly for all the above reasons ,if you like this sort of thing, aimed squarely at the tremors audience this succeeds through good acting (been a fan of Kari Wurher since sliders) and not taking itself seriously, loved the everyone get ready joke, worth an hour and half of anyones time. Go now because it wont be the same on video. "},{"Title":"An eight legged piece of.......#$%%&/&/!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is nothing but a clear waste of money, since you know that Mr.Courtney Cox is the main guy, tahts when you can actually hear your money go down the drain, the movie is slow paced in the begining and afterthat the spiders loose all horror about the deal when the turn around when you call them Hey you! I´ve tried that on a rat and it never turned to look at me so i suppose this movie is not realistic..yeah..and gigantic spiders will be realistic at all! Trailer-trash movie out of hell, but i got a lot of make out on the movie theater with this one...just for that ill give it a 7 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Great old-fashioned creepy campy movie!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie, released in the Summer of 2002, was overshadowed by Lord of the Rings, Austin Powers Goldmember, Triple-X and a bunch of other underwhelming milquetoast mainstream movies, making this a real sleeper. It wasn't on the top of my must see list, but I went anyhow because I knew it wouldn't last long in the theaters.  It disappeared quickly which is a real shame.If you want to make a movie about attacking giant spiders, this is how to do it!!  The screenplay did not take the subject matter seriously which helped the movie a great deal.  There were no scientific theories like in Jurassic Park--no over-the-top, overly serious acting, no superstars, no super-technological special effects, no politically-correct slant.  Just a lot of low-budget fun.    Put your brain on hold.  Watch and enjoy.  Highly recommended!If you missed it in the theaters, SHAME on you!  But it's definitely worth a rental once it comes out. "},{"Title":"Funny Crazy Giant Spiders","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Giant spiders attack a small city from US and the residents will have to destroy them. It's so funny! I never had laughed because of movie like that. In my opinion, this movie is very original, but off corse, there is many problems. It's a good program to give many laughs with your family. "},{"Title":"Luv it!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  What can I say, great one liners, good FX, and big spiders. I saw this at a drive-in and wow was it a blast. They don't make them like this anymore and that is a shame. Not one thing wrong with this movie. The lighting in the mine, the mall, and that great big hairy brown one. See this on a big screen, highly recomended! "},{"Title":"not a patch on 'starship troopers'.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  yep folks, here we go again! a toxic accident results in the metamorphosis of our belove'd creepy crawlies who i actually rooted for while watching this surprisingly boring movie. david arquette does his usual, irritating 'deputy dwight 'dewey' riley' bit from 'scream' and my major complaint about this movie was that he wasen't the first victim. all the rest of the characters are your usual hollywood group of bland stereotypes; the strong willed independent mom with a pair of wholesome squeaky clean kids, the dumb local sherrif and the obligatory 'super soul' type black d.j. whilst the whole thing reeks of a 'hollywood assembly line' quality which i detest. at least the spiders were more appealling. "},{"Title":"Not Arachnophobia.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'm a little tired of people comparing this film to Arachnophobia.  The only thing they have in common is that spiders are involved.  Arachnophobia was full of suspense and scenes that made you jump, and though didn't portray the behaviour of spiders very well, this just made the spiders seem more sinister.Eight Legged Freaks in it's self is a good film, though it does have tie-in's with the B Movie Genre, the specials effects however are A class.If you are a B Movie fan and like good special effects (if those 2 go together) then this is the movie for you.  Also the people who enjoyed Evolution will like this, though it's not nearly as funny.All in all, an okay movie. "},{"Title":"Dammit!!! They almost had it right!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The setup giant mutant spiders attack a town.The heroes a bunch of unknowns with lots of stories to tell.The villains the funniest, cutest spiders ever seen.It should have been one hell of a movie. Unfortunately, it's merely an entertaining one.What's wrong here? Lots of things. The first 45 minutes of the movie absolutely stink. They are slow as molasses, and introduce so many characters you can't keep track about who to care for. And when you do know who the good guys are, character development is so weak you barely *SPOILER AHEAD* feel bad about the aunt being captured by the spiders *END OF SPOILERS*.But the second half... ah. Glorious campy B-movie fun in all its splendor. I'd have paid the movie ticket just to see a spider attacking a girl, her mom yelling Hey, you! and *the spider turning around to see the mom*. Priceless. I do mean it. 100% campy, 100% great.Had the film been shortened, the number of characters lessened (the town mayor was an unecessary character, to say the least, and as you watch the movie, you'll notice a major plot hole at the end) and character development improved, this would have been all that Mars Attacks! was supposed to be, and more. As it is, it's merely an entertaining novelty.Bonus points for the date factor watch it with a girl you like, and she'll be in your arms in no time. Trust me on this one ) "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this was a very entertaining movie. The special effects were solid and the story was quite thrilling. Of course it had no surprises in store and the shocking scenes were as predictable as the ending was but I don't think that a lot of people attended the movie expecting anything really new. For the moment this is easy and welcomed entertainment. Nothing more, nothing less. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Unpretentious fun","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie has no story whatsoever and can be seen as a hommage to the monster movie genre. Although some described it as 'horror for the family' I wouldn't quite say so since some kids might find it pretty scary.Basically there's a lot of gore and special effects range from mediocre to pretty good. The tarantula sure looks cool! If you enjoy crushing spiders you might like this one ;) "},{"Title":"best popcorn yet this summer","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks (ELF) is _not_ shakesspearean Artistry. Neither does it have perfect Artistry in the fields of imagery, camerawork or great, epic dialogue. Admitted and put down in writing. If you absolutely want to see something in that vein, buy a ticket for the next Kurosawa movie.  THIS IS POPCORN  - and good one at that !Beyond those high brow criticisms, ELF surely is one of the fastest, wittiest (wackiest, too ) and at times even scary movies to hit the screen this summer (which has been full of disappointments, sigh).It basically is a vintage 50ies insectoid monster flick plot (lone desert town, weird accident turning local insects into frightening monstrosities...you get the drift) , told with 21st century (sometimes breathless) pace, great FX spiders (sure you can do even better, but this is not Spiderman), some smart (and some rather cynic) dialogue and a lot of cool moments, especially for people who are watching more than one movie a year (and therefore do actually get the asides ). And yes, like every good monster flick it requires some suspension of disbelief. Lets say this again - this is POPCORN !It's not as bloody as one may fear (most violence and imaginably gross moments happen just off-camera), and less likely to produce sleepless nights than 'Arachnophobia', although the bodycount _is_ high, and it starts piling on fast, once the all out arac attack starts rolling. That's ok though, because long-term character development and intense, heart rending dialogue were left out of the script - but who expects them in a B-category monster flick, anyway ? On the other hand, you get lots of great laughs (the catfight is especially funny - ok, not for felinophiles, so what ?) and one can simply lean back and enjoy the ensuing mayhem and carnage in sweet Prosperity..... Expect people and spiders to die great numbers and many interesting and surprising ways.Two minor quibbles should be noted - ELF has the minor problem of too few heroes to root for. David Arquette falls apallingly short as the hero protagonist - probably that's why he was affordable - while the less known Kari Wuhrer is far better ( in terms of onscreen presence and simple charisma), but does get neither enough room nor heroic opportunities. The rest of the cast simply features noone to really cheer on, either.Second, the final endmob spider is IMHO simply not scary and convincing enough , not to comment on the less than exciting and slightly illogical way of her dispatching ( combustion engines.... lets repeat this once more, _combustion_ engines...     frankly, some more money and script reworking should have been spend on this sequence - had it been available, it would have been, I guess ). But besides this, the movie is an utterly enjoyable treat if one does like monster movies at all . As a horror movie (which it, in all honesty, is only to people deathly afraid of spiders ) it is still better much than those abyssmal teen-slasher movies which have plagued us for years.8 out 10 shotgun shells  "},{"Title":"Total waste of £ 5!!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The storyline is completely lousy and the whole film is nothing to write home about. All the spiders are very exaggerated and unconvincing. In addition to this the plot has lots of gaping holes and the denouement is very schmaltzy. You could guess this ending right from the beginning. The main part of the storyline was so obvious that I could only laugh about it and wasn't scared at any time. The only point i enjoyed was when the spiders appeared so suddenly that i was alarmed momentarily. The acting was not so amazing that i can say anything special about it.In my opinion films should be censured so that this kind of movie is not able to be seen because it isn't worth spending the time on it.  "}{"Title":"IF YOU HAVE INSOMNIA, COME TO SEE THIS FILM","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  First of all, I have to say that I am not very keen on these kind of movies, but I think that this one was pure and utter rubbish. I mean, I paid five pounds to get into the cinema and I dont think it was worth even a penny.I was about to fall asleep, and it was 5 pm when I went to the cinema.The acting was terrible. The only actor I would save out of the fire is David Arquette, who tries to make the best of a bad job...The rest of them are totally wooden.The plot is not original at all, and the whole storyline is obvious, from the beginning to the end.On the other hand, I have to say that the SFX were really good and the spiders looked really realistic. However, on the whole, I think the effects were over the top.So, I have to say that I would not recommend this film to anybody. If you have five pounds left and this film is the only one on, just go for a drink instead. "},{"Title":"Good points equal to bad points.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this film with my friends yesterday. I think it's funny more than scary. There is nothing exciting at first. I mean it doesn't scare m at all, and also my friend he nearly fell to sleep. I got quite excited when I saw the huge spiders, but they weren't going to get out the screen anyway. It got more interesting as the film went on, But I don't think it has a very good ending, because the spiders died too easily for people to get worked up.  "},{"Title":"*** out of five....An entertaining delight","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is delightful fun. Yes the ending isn't great and child actor Scott Terra (as Mike) and Kari Wuhrer (as Sherrif Sam Parker) are poor. But this is a clever roller-coaster B-movie that is extremly entertaining. Its such good fun! Besides Terra and Wuhrer the acting is very good. Arquette is surprisingly good , while Scarlett Johansson (Ghost World, The Man Who Wasn't There) shines again here after starring in those two masterpieces. This is terrific fun all the way. *** out of five "},{"Title":"great entertainment","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I had a choice between seeing this and MiB2. I went for this on the basis that this looked like it could be a laugh, whereas MIIB just looked like i could write the jokes myself without seeing the film. I was hugely pleased with my decision. This isnt a film to take seriously, you wont be moved to tears, you wont leave the cinema with a theological debate raging between you and your mates (although we did wonder what happened to the trapdoor spiders), you may however leave the cinema laughing like we did. Yes, the spiders make noises and squeaks which is stupid but no-one would go and see Austin Powers and complain that Austin's dialect bears little resemblance to any british person alive. Normally when me and my mates watch a film we comment 'wouldn't it be funny if...', but in ELF we didnt have to because the sort of stuff we wanted to see happened. It bordered on the line between silliness and seriousness, occasionally stepping over each way but why cant they make more movies like this? The fact that it revels in its own genre of Science/Comic Fiction bordering on reality makes it utterly charming. It gets the adrenaline going and provided you want to see this type you wont be disappointed.Acting-as good as needed (far far far better than Tomb Raider) SFX-amusing and more realistic than ive seen in bigger budget movies Plot-simple, unrealistic but since when do all movies need to reflect realism????Im gonna go see it again "},{"Title":"Its no Tremors but...","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  After the fantastic trailer I was hoping for a B-movie comedy to match Tremors, its not that good (it only slightly better than Lake Placid) but is still a worthy piece of Saturday night fun. The 'plot' centres around a small towns inhabitants trying to survive long enough to be rescued when a barrel of toxic waste mutates the spiders at a local wackos spider-farm into giant mutants who then attack the town. It tries to homage old monster movies while providing scary thrills and it mostly works even with the dodgy CGI, however the lack of 'jump out of your seat moments' was disappointing. All characters the stereotypes but the movie but is filled with enough self-parody to pull it off (just), Kari Wuhrer is great as the town sheriff and the support are good. The main problem here is David Arquette, he's rubbish as the towns favorite son who returns to save the day, the part should've been played like Kevin Bacon played a similar role in Tremors but Arquette has zero charisma and little action hero cred'. With a bit more wit and charm this could've been great, but its pretty good anyway. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Huge spiders with a huge attitude to match.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Every now and again, monster movies get the big budget treatment and Eight Legged Freaks is no exception. While the '50's and '60's saw a rash of these movies, the last fifteen years or so has seen a number of movies pay tribute to that era. If you've seen Tremors or The Relic, then you'll know what to expect with Eight Legged Freaks. We begin our story with a barrel of hazardous waste tumbling into a lake from a swerving lorry. A strange looking man is then seen collecting small bugs from the lakes edge. Unbeknownst to him, the bugs have been contaminated with the waste. It turns out that he owns an exotic spider farm and is feeding the bugs to the spiders which is making the spiders grow larger than normal.When one of the spiders escapes from its' glass cage all hell breaks loose with quite a nerve shredding scene that is also quite funny at times. Freaks then progresses at lighting speed as the spiders grow to monstrous proportions with some well handled action sequences and some good comic moments to boot. Even the spiders are given a sense of humour.As the film only lasts a short time, the main bulk of the plot is in the first ten minutes with the remaining ninety being used for the action. During that time we get a low down on the different characters in the film. There is the usual bad guy who is only looking out for number one, you've got the guy who has been away for years and conveniently comes back at the right time and the usual annoying teenagers who are just gagging to be killed. Oh and there is the love interest too.This is your usual popcorn movie that doesn't require you to have a degree in rocket science to follow. Eight Legged Freaks has all you could ask for in a big budget B-movie with great special effects and cheesy acting. Just leave your brain at the door and you'll enjoy it whole lot more.       "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you were scared by Arachnophobia please don't watch this. This is one of the most exciting films ever.The plot is a man tries not to run over a rabbit but spills chemicals while doing so. He spilled it near an exotic spider farm and the spiders escape and mutate into giant spiders. The story is told by Harlan a weird man on the radio.The outstanding performances are by David Arquette, Kari Wuhrer and Matt Czuchry.Its got lots of action, its funny and made me jump a lot.One of the best made scenes is where a spider is under a tent and keeps following a man around in a mall.This a very exciting film that will have you on the edge of your seat. 9 out of 10.Tip if you need to go to the toilet go before the film because you won't want to go in the middle of the film. At the end I went to go to the cinema's toilets but there was a sign saying Male toilets out of order. I was glad that my house is beside the cinema! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  You can't help but have fun with a film that is self mocking of its own genre, and the presence of Arquette in Eight Legged Freaks is obviously a deliberate ploy to do just that.Well scripted and acted, this unashamed B film is a fantastic horror film and fun all the way through -- particular fun was the conspiracy theorist radio host.Watch out for the sexy sheriff too -- lovely all round! "},{"Title":"8 stars from me","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed this film mainly because of the way the spiders were handled. They were all given their respective scientific names and habits. The effects were very good, and the storyline was basically one from those monster movies in the 50's and 60's - small town invaded by giant creatures and the townsfolk fight them off. There were enough laughs to stop it becoming an all out boring B-movie whilst there were enough jumps to keep you jumpy. The characters were ok, nothing special. I think that there is enough here to keep most people amused, even if they are afraid of spiders. No doubt there are those out there that don't like this film, but that is their opinion. I liked the film, I'm saying that everyone else should. Everyone is entitled to their opinion. "},{"Title":"Load of B******s","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film is like a mix of Arachnophobia and Deep Blue Sea. Basically it has a whole load of spiders who have grown to an enormous size ( a la Deep Blue Sea ) and who want to take revenge on humans. Sound familiar??? This film is just a 21st Century version of most old movies about monsters. BUT those old movies were actually scary in some parts, or in some cases ALL parts. This movie has no dicernable plot or reason for being apart from to satisfy the creators twisted imagination. The scariest thing about this movie is not the spiders, but instead the lack of good acting. I will give David Arquette and some of the other actors their dues, but even the biggest names in Hollywood could not have helped this movie. It started out badly and the ending was obvious. I wouldn't reccomend anyone to see this movie purely because it is a waste of time and valuble money. "}{"Title":"Made me laugh no end!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I went into this film expecting a light comedy and a few B-movie shocks - just a bit of harmless fun.  Boy how I was surprised.  Yes, the film has it's suspense moments that are almost cliches of other movies; but, it also has a great sense of dark humour.  Once the spiders actually come out into the open and start attacking people, the humour begins to mount and mount until you start to cheer the spiders on.  I just loved watching the spiders do some really funny physical comedy which were accompanied with Gremlin-esque screams and noises.  It's the sort of comedy which is difficult to describe in words and when you try to it sounds silly.  But I can guarantee you that this film has a good mixture of thrills and (mainly) sidesplitting hilarity.  Don't suffer by sitting through MIB2.  Have a chuckle at Austin Powers 3.  But have a riot of a time with Eight Legged Freaks.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A small town is token over by giant spiders after someone accidently dumps some toxic waste. The only thing standing between the spiders and domination is loner David Arquette and his old flame the now current sheriff Kari Wuhrer. Fast paced, scary, exciting flick features amazing visual effects and a terrific turn by Kari Wuhrer. Very inventive, very clever flick w/ some monster laughs also. Highlight is the cat in the wall scene!Rated PG-13; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"See it for the special effects alone!!!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'm not going to lie and say this movie has a great story, it doesn't. But, it's not supposed to have a good story, it's just supposed to be a fun movie about spiders taking over a city, is that so hard to accept? Anyhow, the story is SUPER simple and is pretty much what you can expect from the trailers. It's basically Arachnophobia on steroids!All the actors did a fine job. I've noticed that some people have complained about their acting. You have to remember that for most of the scenes in the film, the spiders weren't even there, they were put in with a computer some time after the scene was shot. So, I've got to give some props to all the actors in this film, they did a great job, and I commend them for it, David Arquette, Kari Wuhrer, Doug E. Doug, Scarlett Johansson and everyone else....And while I'm talking about the actors...this actress, Kari Wuhrer... Could they have got a more beautiful woman to play this part!? Good lord, that is one beautiful woman! And I've also got to mention Scarlett Johansson, another beautiful young woman!I haven't even mentioned the special effects yet! The special effects are worth watching the movie alone. The spiders actually look like their really running around munchin' on some people! It's really shocking how far they've come these days with computer effects! Whoever did the special effects for this film should pat themselves on the back, they did a fantastic job!As for the comedy aspect of the film There was some good comedy and a lot of really stupid comedy! Sadly, a lot of the best jokes were given away in the trailer for this film, so don't expect this movie to be a total laugh-fest! But, laughs aside, the film was fun and enjoyable.I wouldn't recommend this film to everyone, but if the idea of a movie about huge spiders taking over a city interests you, then you might want to take a peak at this film...or if you're just a fan of cool special effects. Anyhow, If you see the movie, I hope you like it as much I do. Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"not one of the best films currently","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Having sat down and watched this film you get this strange feeling that you are watching a 1950's B movie. The plot ( if you can call it that ) has been used more times than a New York Subway toilet seat. This just goes to prove that the art of film making hasn't died , it's just got round to resurrecting the dead. In short, go and watch THEM and your notice that it's the same idea ( great spider eats guy, scares towns folk and gets destroyed ).  "},{"Title":"Cool Movie, baaaad spiders","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw the movie last night and thought it was awesome. I thought it would be cheesy and unimaginative, but was very surprised to see how well-written and directed it was. It was definitely worth the seven dollars I paid to see it. Even if you hate spiders, you'll still love the movie. All the acting was great, the cinematography was great, and the story was great. It was an all-around good flick.  "},{"Title":"Kinda reminds me of..","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When i went to this movie, i never really expected anything spectacular. Well i was right about that. The whole movie kinda reminded me of Mars Attacks, Especially the humor and the ridiculously high body count. But i never really liked mars attacks and the same goes for this movie. The effects werent really convincing and the story sounded like it was written over night (Vat of chemicals falls in lake, spiders eat radioactive bugs, spiders grow and eat people). The jokes also bothered me at times, since i felt there were a lot of badly timed ones. What also bothered me about this movie was the poor character development. Not once did i feel any sympathy for any of the characters, simply becoz we hardly got to know them. There were of course some good scenes, for instance, the scene where the main guy is calling the army and screaming Theyre here theyre here! really had me laughing. But in the end i just didnt fall for this movie, although i am kinda expecting it to recieve a cult status like Mars Attacks. But i suppose well just have to wait and see about that "},{"Title":"Remind you of something?","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Well, I'll tell you one thing. Flashbacks. To the Birds and the Bees and all those old, faky movies. However, Eight Legged Freaks really isn't that bad. The spiders look fairly real, the acting isn't too bad, and Hey! Didn't I see all those people in the Disney movie Motocrossed? It's actually hilarious at some points, with stupid little quirks in it. If you're looking for a movie that might scare you...with a little bit of humor...then this movie's for you. 8 out of 10 for Eight Legged Freaks. "},{"Title":"It's the moose, stupid","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This light hearted piece of fluff was just what it tried to be; a knowing, tongue-in-cheek, giant spider B-movie homage/parody. The giant spider effects are just as good as they need to be, but not more so. The acting is adequate. The entertainment level is respectable.But what really made it for me was when one of the jumping wolf spiders, the velociraptors of the film, attacked a stuffed moose head on the wall of a house they were invading. Priceless. "},{"Title":"The biggest crock ever!!!  Don't see this movie!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, for you guys out there who stick to reality, don't bother with this movie.  I didn't pay, but I wanted a refund.  This movie cloned the old fake looking horror movies.  The people in the movie were really stupid, reminicent of Scream.  I keep tarantulas, and while, yes, it is about a very cool spider...the orb weaver...the facts about them are sorely mistaken.  Did you know that spiders pant??  NOT.  Spiders have book lungs, and they have no pump like humans or mammals for breathing or pulse.  They have no muscles at all, however, they do move with blood pressure.  They have clear blood composed mostly of water.  In the movie they make the classic dinosaur roar from Jurassic Park, yeah right...spiders don't make noises.  Also, their blood was green globby throw up looking goop.  They had a pink toe start it all...um, hello, I don't think so.  The pink toe would be on the ceiling, not on his back, and it certainly wouldn't attack him without provocation or him being small enough to fit into it's abdomen.  And this arack attack...yeah right.  Everyone knows when you put three tarantulas together that you have two dead ones and one very big one.  Unless, however, they were from the same egg sac and never separated...which these are not.  The movie in general is stupid, and no one seems to have ANY common sense.  I hated almost every minute of it...and some how afterwards, felt jyped.  UGH.  Don't bother with this movie.Olivia "},{"Title":"A valiant effort","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I imagine that `Eight Legged Freaks' had a troubled pre-production period. It is not easy to get a giant animal movie made in Hollywood. However, it is perfectly feasible to film one in Roger Corman's backyard.  In fact, I believe that at least one video about giant animals and topless bimbos gets filmed on Corman's property once every three hours.  But I digress. Hollywood just has a phobia of producing of films about tank-sized spiders, crocodiles, basset hounds or whatever mammal or gastropod is all the rage with the kids these days. No plot summary is needed in this review. You can pretty much surmise from the title of the flick that it's not a musical rendition of  `Death of a Salesman'. Nope, it's about spiders.  Toxic waste, rap music or violent video games &#150; I don't remember which &#150; mutates a whole slew of small unpleasant arachnids into a whole slew of giant unpleasant arachnids.  Some unknown influence then drives several different species of spiders to join together in loving union and work towards the extermination of every household pet and human on the planet. I am by no means an expert on this genus, but I have watched enough Discovery Channel programs to know that arachnids are not the most amicable creatures. It's my belief that if a bird-eating tarantula were to encounter another class of arthropods, half its size that it would probably eat them; not attempt to form a perfect Utopia with them. Ex-miner, Chris McCormack (David Arquette) and Sheriff, Sam Parker (Kari Wuhrer) gather the townsfolk together to battle the invading hordes of creepy crawlers. Arquette and Wuhrer each deliver some good performances. The supporting cast deserves kudos as well for creating one of the weirdest bunch of rednecks ever to shuffle across the silver screen. Unfortunately, good casting was not enough to save this cute little film from poor writing and not-so-special special effects. Good try though.After viewing this production, I could not help but feel a little sad. For you see, it will probably be a really long time before Hollywood musters up the courage to make another giant animal movie. Until then, we'll all be stuck watching giant lustful lemurs ripping the tops off B-movie queens Lorissa McComas and Michelle Bauer in Roger Corman's latest backyard production. Sigh.   "}{"Title":"A ROLLER-COASTER RIDE FULL OF (Horror) FUN","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Roland Emmerich (executive producer) invites you to a fun lovin' ride of horror flicks...There are two rules in (animal-) horror moviesa) they are BIG (Godzilla, King Kong...)b) or there are MANY of them (Critters, Gremlins...)NOW you've got MANY BIG & UGLY spiders in Eight Legged Freaks! Get ready for the fun!Eight Legged Freaks (a.k.a. Arac Attack) delivers what most modern day horror movies don't the ultimate fun experience of shivering horror. The choice to make David Arquette the leading actor for this movie couldn't have been better. Arquette has made Wes Craven's Scream a special event. Looking like the little lost boy of a backwater town he adds to the funny moments of the movie.Kari Wuhrer, Scott Terra, Scarlett Johansson as the Parker family have so many gags, references to other movies and fun moments that you might think they jumped right out of an mid-1980ies Steven Spielberg movie.The very unrealistic yet extreme funny story of how the spiders morph to big man-eating monsters reminds of the fantastic 1950ies trash B-movies of science fiction and horror.The movie has its moments with horror but most of the time it's just plain good old fun to watch the story unfold. Boombastic sound underlines the action sequences with motorcycle chases etc. It's pure adrenalin-fun to watch the actors work their way around the monster-sized spiders. If you watch thoroughfully you'll also catch many humourous references to other horror movies.Best of all you'll probably laugh throughout the whole movie. Fun, excitement and speed never stop in Eight Legged Freaks. NOW GO AND WATCH THAT MOVIE! IT'S GREAT FUN.PS. 8 Arachnoid Thumbs Up!! "},{"Title":"Great fun!  About as filling as a handful of popcorn...","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" ...but there's nothing wrong with that.  Doug E. Doug and Rick Overton are the highlights of the supporting cast.  Arquette and Wuhrer play their parts well.  Wuhrer gets to Sigourney Weaver with tongue-in-cheek and there are a lot of horror film derived laughs to keep this thing web spinning along. "},{"Title":"Only for those with a sense of humor","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'm often amazed at how little sense of humor fans of genre films display.  They seem only to appreciate the grim, dark and violent, as if that's the only indication that a film-maker has respect for the genre.It is obvious to me that the makers of Eight Legged Freaks are absolutely in love with the monster movie.  Do they take it seriously?  Absolutely not, but the love is there.  It's all in the details.  For one thing, unlike many monster movies, the monsters are given a great deal of screen time.  No lengthy explanations or lectures on how they came to be, no coy waiting games in which they tease us with glimpses; the spiders are thrown onto the screen as quickly as possible with the classic 1950's device of radioactive contamination, and then all hell breaks loose.  Every monster movie cliche ever employed is on display here, and proudly.  What makes it all work is that the film is fully aware that they are cliches, and it takes every opportunity to point them out.  The actors all seem to get the joke; no one here is under any misapprehension that they're making a statement about the despoiling of the environment, or man vs nature.  It's all just for fun.  It exists halfway between parody and homage.  Like The Brady Bunch Movie, it shows great affection for its target, even as it pokes fun at it.Most reviews, both professional and amateur, appear to miss the point.  I doubt that anybody came on to this project to create a taut, suspenseful, and original thriller that had something to say.  Sci fi/horror fans really must learn to lighten up once in a while.  Grimness can become wearying, and I personally find it refreshing to see that some film-makers know how to make a thoroughly entertaining homage to a fun, pointless genre. "},{"Title":"This may sound strange...","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This may sound strange, but I actually LOST my fear of spiders once I saw this movie. That doesn't mean the movie was bad. The special effects were amazing! It had the best looking spiders in any movie thus far. Each spider looked highly detailed and extreamly realistic. The Trap Door spiders were amongst the best. They looked just like the real thing when they were snagging human victoms. As far as the story goes, it wasn't very good. If the actor has more than 2 lines, expect them to LIVE. It seemed like the only people that were getting killed were the extras. There was just too big of a cast for all of them to make it out alive. It had a very lame spider made up for the movie based off the Black Widow w/o actually having a Black Widow in it. Overall it was ok. If spiders scare you now, they might not after the end of the movie... "},{"Title":"Great creepin'crawling fun!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A great movie, if you like a movie that has spiders crawling around all over the place, people that have to be armed with perfume, and pitch forks. Well, you'll love Courteney Cox's husband David Arquette in this movie. "},{"Title":"a review","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Two months ago, while I was wasting away the afternoon in front of the television, I saw a preview for ELF on some random channel. I think I was hooked on this movie from that moment on. The stuff I saw on that trailer was exactly what people like me hope for in a movie. First, I saw the GIANT MUTANT SPIDERS. That's something that everyone enjoys in a movie. Then there was the title, Eight Legged Freaks. It's not serious and its not dumb. It's the best title for this kind of movie. They could have called it GIANT MUTANT SPIDERS, but that gives too much away. And I also saw David Arquette in the trailer screaming Get away you eight legged freaks! and that was awesome. Arquette's been in most of the SCREAM movies, and he's always been a good actor in the horror category. I expected he'd be just as great in ELF.So from that short trailer I was sure that this movie was going to be awesome. I'm sure many people didn't share my immediate enthusiasm toward ELF, since there weren't a lot of clips and it was probably not as good as other summer blockbusters. Anyway, summer went on and I saw a few other random movies. They'll be reviewed somewhere else. Finally more commercials began to show up between my favorite shows and they only further melted the film into my brain. Soon the only movie I could think about was ELF and not even the trailers for SIGNS could distract me. I knew that if I didn't see this movie I would go insane.Turns out the weekend ELF was released was the weekend that I was allowed to invite a friend to come over. I met Paul over at Golfland and then he, his friend Ted (?) and I went to Century Theaters. This theater was empty of life except for a few young kids in the arcade and some employees at the concession stand. I'd be avoiding the stand because a small candy can cost up to $2.75 and that is about $2.50 too much. A small soda is the same price as renting a movie. If I wanted to buy expensive food I'd go to a fancy restaurant. So I spend my remaining four dollars in the arcade with San Francisco Rush. We had to wait for about forty minutes for the movie because we got there so early. I just wanted to get inside and watch the movie already. Soon enough it was time to go into the theater.The previews were pretty good. DREAMCATCHER looks like it'll be good, mostly because it's from a Stephen King book. Anyway, the movie starts and the credits begin to roll. All the while I am expecting nothing out of this movie beside a good time. All horror movies start out the same way. All the classics, at least. In TREMORS, no one knows about the giant worms, the roads are conveniently closed because of construction, and the phone lines are down. In ELF, no one knows about the spiders (except the smart kid, but that's okay because no one listens to the kid anyway), the roads are blocked and the phones are down. But, unlike TREMORS, these three things happen over time- and not right away. The phone lines, for example, go down after the spider's chase down the motorcycles. That's not for about twenty, maybe thirty minutes into the movie.And then there's always that one completely random place or thing that causes all the trouble. And it wasn't the truck driving through town with the toxic waste that was random, because the barrels of waste were going to the mines (that was briefly explained later in the movie). It was the Exotic Spider Farm that caused all this trouble, and why the hell is there a spider farm in the middle of nowhere, anyway? So a barrel of toxic waste falls out of the truck and lands in a pond. The crickets around the pond are used as food for the spiders in the farm, so soon these toxic waste carrying crickets are being fed to the spiders and this is where trouble begins.But before you get to see the GIANT MUTANT SPIDERS, you have to meet the characters that will later save the day. There's David Arquette's character Chris, who left town ten years ago and is just now returning. His dad owned the mines around town. It's not totally clear why Chris leaves town. But his dad went crazy and died while Chris was gone and it was because of the methane gas that the mines were full of. Inhaling too much of that stuff will make anything look like a gorgeous woman, even a bottomless pit of death.Then there's the hottest police officer ever filmed. Kari Wuhrer plays Sheriff Sam Parker, a single mother of two. She runs the town with help of her partner, Deputy Pete (played by Rick Overton, who was hilarious). Her children, Mike and Ashley, are also important characters. Mike is a regular visitor at the spider farm and knows a lot about the creatures. He even has a program on his computer to show how large a spider can grow based on spider body parts. Ashley is a rebel in the making with a motorcycle-riding boyfriend. Scarlett Johansson plays Ashley, and she is pretty damn hot.And there's Doug E. Doug's character Harlan. He's a paranoid guy who talks about conspiracies and such things over his radio station. Everyone in town listens to it. He has some good lines here and there, but it wasn't really about the comedy in the movie anyway. There's a bunch of other people to meet as well. Wade, the mayor, is a money-spending jerk that no one really likes. He owns a couple ostriches. There's Chris' aunt Gladys who gives Chris a place to stay.So by the time you've met everyone, the GIANT MUTANT SPIDERS have already grown gigantic. They slowly make their way into town through the mines. First they eat pets and small animals like that, but soon they begin feasting on people. No one knows what to make of it. The movie goes at a steady pace and gradually speeds up as more spiders show up. It's just like every horror movie before it, which makes it perfect. And after about an hour, all hell breaks loose when all of the GIANT MUTANT SPIDERS are crawling through town jumping on people or snatching them into their holes. The smart kid has told us that these spiders in town are all males, and that they're just taking the people back to the female- who must eat.The female is 3 times the size of the males, so now that they've become GIANT MUTANT SPIDERS, you can expect a really freakin' huge beast. Now they must destroy the female to save the town, but also find a way to dispose of the males at the same time. How will they do this? Well, I'll tell you that it has something to do with the mines.Overall it was a really awesome movie. People expected a comedy and they were disappointed. But the actors and film crew tried to tell people that the movie was not a comedy. It was a horror movie. I knew that, and so I was pleased. The pace was perfect and the death toll was high and great. The special effects were very well done through most of the movie except for a few short spider attack scenes. The guys from INDEPENDENCE DAY worked on this movie, and they're the ones who brought us the awesome scenes where the wall of fire moves through New York. Good stuff.I definitely recommend this movie to anyone who likes old-fashioned horror movies or that just likes GIANT MUTANT SPIDERS in general. I liked this movie a lot. I give it a solid 9 out of 10. I lowered the score one point because of the few scenes where the spiders looked way too fake. I mean, how hard is it to make better lighting or use more shadows to make the scene look realistic? I'm talking about the scenes when someone's on the ground kicking and screaming because there's a spider on them, but I really couldn't believe those scenes because the spider looked like it wasn't really on top of the person. It's hard to explain, but easy to notice.See this movie.  "},{"Title":"More fun than scares&#133;","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was awaiting a good, old fun ride and was not disappointed. Inthe tradition of Tremors, the whole movie is so tongue-in-cheeksthat it borders on parody, though obviously, there is a deep love forthe genre and conventions displayed here, which makes up for thevery basic storyline. Even the spiders manage to be funny, withanthropomorphic reactions that sometimes evokes Gremlinsand sometimes classic Tex Avery (The cat fight&#133;) that had theaudience roaring with laughter. Oh, and it also manages to avoidmonotony by giving us a full range of spiders with differentfeatures, not just the tarantula variety. Unless you are totallyarachnophobic, I guess you'll get more laughs and action thanscares out of this one, but as light-hearted fun while not insultingthe viewer's intelligence, this baby is as good as you get. It alsofeatures the most clever joke about another movie (The sixthsense) I've seen in a long time. This one deserves to be a hit&#133; "},{"Title":"great","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  this is a great movie for the sci-fi channel on Saturday afternoons. I loved the fact that they payed homage to all the great horrorfilms of days of old.  It is definitely worth seeing unless you areafraid of spiders, then I recommend staying away from the theater. "},{"Title":"Way fun!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Maybe I was just in the perfect mood to watch his movie...but I really enjoyed it. It was corny, it was fun, it was cliched, but overall very entertaining. It wasted no time getting started, and maintain a frantic pace throughout. I loved the Eency Weency Spider theme music... "},{"Title":"laugh out loud funny!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I read a couple good reviews of this and so my wife and I just went to see it. I thought that it might be entertaining, but it was even better than I had hoped.When I got home and checked out IMDB, I was also very surprised at how negative many of the reviews are. It seems that a lot of viewers wanted some other kind of movie.My wife and I laughed out loud frequently during the matinee today. And how can a comedy do any better than that?The kid, Mike Parker, played by Scott Terra, was terrific! What a refreshing portrayal of an intelligent and likeable boy. Child actors in most movies are just not very good and come across either self-conscious or remote. Doug E. Doug was also very funny as a radio personality who thinks aliens are coming.The only slow part of the movie for me was during some of the mine scenes toward the end where the action got a bit repetitive.Given the limitations imposed by using a typical B movie story line, I don't know if this film could have been any better. I gave it an 8. "}{"Title":"This movie rocks!!!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you want to see one of the best B-Movies I have ever seen this is the one. I was laughing till my side hurt through 90% of this film. From start to finish COMEDY! Anyone who expects to see a serious film about gigantic spiders(more than one breed) plauging a small isolated town is out of luck. Someone who is in for a good laugh and likes B-movies or just in for a laugh should NOT miss this one they won't be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"Campy update to 50's Science Fiction","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  With stuff like this it is difficult to tell if it was made bad on purpose or not.  Some the actors seem to be taking the whole thing very seriously, others are acting with a wink and a nod, and other actors are just plain bad (that is, the stars).After the story started to involve the extras and supporting players, I wished the film would have concentrated more on them and less on the main characters.  This looked like a case where the special effects budget started to eat a big whole in the project and overwhelm the film and the director.The writer's need to find the fine line between verisimilitude and telegraphing the ending.They also made the mistake of showing scenes from Them on a television screen and make you realize how much better (and scarier) the original was without modern computer special effects.I probably would have been much better with an R rating and showed more mangling of human bodies.For fans of fifties Science Fiction, this film is almost not a waste of two hours of your life. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Honestly, I wasn't expecting much but this movie feels like a FOX Sunday Movie. The acting is horrible and the humour is so bad that I only laughed at the scenes that WERE NOT suppose to be funny. The spiders were cool but made ridiculous animated sounds that took away any fear you may have felt. Overall, this movie belonged on TV or maybe direct to video.   "},{"Title":"21st century B-movie","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is basically a B-movie with 21st century graphics.  A fun movie which is best seen at the second run theater so you won't have to pay full price.  It's not really worth the full price of admission because you might feel cheated after having watched it and knowing that you just paid full admission for a B-movie with high budget graphics.  I saw it for twilight price ($3.75) but at the second run theater it should be about 2 or 3$.  Peace out. "},{"Title":"Cool, campy fun...","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this on the day it opened, and suffice to say, yahoo! I had been waiting since November to see this movie, and all the waiting paid off. Since it was a Devlin/Emmerich film, I thought it was done under Centropolis productions, but apparently not. Still, the movie was awesome. Acting was good, effects were better. The spiders are great, and show a really cool side of nature - the side that gets to fight back. I like how all the individual stories tie together neatly in the end, and the ironic humor base carries through, making it cool, campy fun, a la Independence Day and Godzilla. "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A return to a simpiliar movie making time.  Eight LeggedFreaks  does not take itself seriously. If it did this movie would have been bad.  This is a Fun, campy movie, 7 stars worth.  If you are looking for a time reality check You will Not find it here.....  The spider effects are pretty good.   This is a Fun, campy movie, 7 stars worth.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining B Movie","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  An entertaining B Movie film about giant mutant spiders... we just dont get enough giant spider movies these days. Similar in tone and style to the Joe Dante classic Gremlins this film is a lot of fun to watch. Kari Wuhrer (veteran of many direct to video schlock epics) and David Arquette (of the Scream trilogy) star in this film, but the actors play second fiddle to the spiders and the jokes which come fast and furious. It's silly but hey if you have fond memories of the radioactive mutant movies of the past you should enjoy this one. GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"Great fun!!!!!!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I saw this movie advertised on the theatre screen (not the trailer, but just the picture) I thought to myself, oh, you gotta be kidding me.  It looked dumb and just another way to use up film.  It didn't even seem like a real movie. Damn, was I wrong.  First off, do not go into this movie expecting a wonderful, complex plot, because it doesn't have one.  The goods of this movie  David Arquette, wonderful special effects, pretty good acting, hilarious, a lot of action, no love scenes, etc.  The bad  too short.  Get ready to laugh, get ready to be thrilled, get ready to have a good time.  This is a great group movie if you want to see good action and laugh a lot.  In my opinion, because of the dark and light parts of this movie, it is one of the best out.  My rating  ***/**** "},{"Title":"Can't quite decide what it is","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I won't go into too many details on what this movie is.  If you can't figure that out from the title, you don't really deserve to breathe let alone see movies.Eight Legged Freaks is a fun little romp that has elements of horror and comedy.  Overall, I liked the film and wish that Hollywood would make more like it.  There isn't the ever so common over-reliance on CGI here.  It's used where it works, but actual fake spiders are also used where more appropriate.  The director is really clued into human responses with the comedy.  Ostriches are inherently comical creatures, and even if you don't think the idea of giant spiders eating ostriches is a humorous subject, you really can't help but to laugh when you see these bizarre looking creatures being dragged to the ground.  It's also very difficult not to laugh when you see a cat leave an imprint of its face on some drywall...Eight Legged Freaks really has its comedy down.Similarly, the horror elements are on target.  While no death scenes are particularly gruesome, Eight Legged Freaks makes no apologies about who it kills.  For such a non-violent movie, I was surprised by how many innocent people that the film actually developed somewhat are taken out by the bugs. If the director had expanded on this just a little more, he could have made some really horrifying and memorable death sequences.  Also to the director's credit, the little kid who really knows what is going on is easy to like.  These type of nobody believes me kids are usually horribly annoying characters that you wish would die but you know they won't.  Kari Wuhrer also does a surprisingly good acting job.This is where the problem with ELF comes in.  The horror and comedy work well, but there is also an element of cheese that absolutely does NOT work. In certain scenes, the spiders are given cute little voices and do everything from yell oh, oh, oh, oh! when being drug by a car to coughing when immersed in a cloud of dust.  In other scenes, the spiders are harrowing creatures complete with deep growls.  This film can't quite decide whether we should be scared of these spiders or laugh at them; it's too bad that this distinction is essential to the success of the movie.Eight Legged Freaks is pure, solid, fun.  My only complaint is that I wish it had been more Evil Dead 2 and less Gremlins.  It also would have worked well as a straight horror film, but the cheese kid-friendly elements don't work on any level.  They may not ruin the movie, but they will surely keep it from ever becoming a classic, cult or otherwise.  "},{"Title":"The itsy bitsy spider...","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  David Arquette was perfect for this.  A combination of horror and comedy.  I like the CGI which has to be the best so far.  It most reminded me of Tremors, which I think is a better movie.  It could have been better but was entertaining and had the jump from your seats quality you expect from a good monster movie.  I watched and re-watched most of the 50's and 60's monster movies and this definitely fits squarely into that genre.  Tremors really fully achieved what Eight Legged Freaks only partially achieves.  There needs to be a certain nervous anticipation always present with the creatures pushing the characters each time they become too comfortable or complacent.  The ending theme is also great - very appropriate - I would like to know who sang it.  I definitely recommend it to anyone who does not have an allergy to the horror genre (critics included). "}{"Title":"Cheesy spiders vs. David Arquette = Which is the better actor?","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Camp finally gets a big budget overhaul,  and it works perfectly. When I saw the original  trailer, I knew this would be some cheesy satire,  especially when David Arquette and Kari Wuhrer  are receiving top billing. Full of bad puns and  cheesy special effects, this film really embodies  the old school monster movies that had bad  special effects and poorly feigned fear. I especially  loved the fact it was based in Arizona, and it had  a lot of cultural aspects of the state few ever get  to see (the dieing mining industry, the short lived  fad of ostrich farming, and paranoid fanatics).  However, Tucsonans were portrayed as nothing  more than yokels, which continues the constant  bad mouthing my home town gets (see Romy  and Michelle's High School Reunion, Final  Fantasy and The 13th Floor). Anyway, a fun film  to watch if your looking for a cheesy, camp film. "},{"Title":"Just what you'd expect...","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Spiders, webs, spiders chasing people... it's a fun movie with good acting all around and some laugh-out-loud moments. You get what you pay for!  "},{"Title":"Just like all the B Movies","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was awful and very stupid. It was the same kind of movie like all the B rated movies we have all seen. There were a few comedy lines, but that was all that me and some friends got a kick out of it. Dont waist your money watching it. "},{"Title":"The entertainment we've been waiting for all summer!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  What's more fun than a barrel of monkeys?A mall full of giant spiders of course!If you've been disappointed by trailers that don't deliver lately, you won't have that problem here. What you see is what you get -- a small, secluded town, invaded by giant jumping spiders. The action starts in the first few minutes of the film and doesn't let up until the end.Unless spiders give you the creeps anyway, this film will amuse (think Gremlins) more than scare you, although some scenes of very realistic, monstrous spiders, snatching people away to be entombed in silk and have the juices sucked out of them later do provide a horrific vision of what if they were real?.The film makers obviously had a good time paying homage to the giant bug movies of the 50's here and the movie even makes fun of itself in a few scenes. Watch for the little subtle jokes in the background - like a citizen with a chain saw and a hockey mask, a Looney Tuneish fight between a cat and a giant spider that leaves their prints in sheet rock, and even a quick sexual innuendo with mannequins(this happens so quickly however, that the kids and probably even some adults won't pick up on it, so don't worrying about having to explain anything). The theme song is probably the funniest of all with it's pumped up version of Itsy Bitsy Spider.Crawl, no JUMP, to your nearest theater, pull up a web, and enjoy! This isthe entertainment you've been waiting for all summer! "},{"Title":"What a lot of fun this movie was!","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I consider myself a pretty serious film lover. I like art house films and I like films that take on serious subjects in meaningful ways. But I also like FUN films. And brother, is this movie a lot of fun! I usually can't stand David Arquette, but in this movie he is actually tolerable. He cuts down on the cheese factor and plays it fairly straight, and that was a great relief to me. This has a great campy feel to it. It doesn't take itself too seriously, and allows us to be in on the fun. It's not a classic, it's not going to win any awards, and I guess it's not doing boffo box office, either. But if anybody asks me to recommend a fun summer movie, this is at the top of my list. "},{"Title":"The movie does what it sets out to do.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It's a campy mutant monster movie, you already know what to expect going in.  The movie's production values are high enough to make the end product slick and entertaining, but the movie (wisely) never tries to elevate itself above its ancestry.  The main characters are fleshed out just enough to make you hope they see through it to the end, and the bugs are just well rendered enough to allow your brain to suspend disbelief just enough to enjoy seeing the big CGI spiders doing battle with the humans.  The plot, of course, practically writes itself once things are set in motion, and you can play monster movie bingo picking out all of the elements ripped from the films that paved the road for this one.   My only complaint was that you didn't get to see more elaborate and varied deaths for the eight legged heavies.  It was surpisingly satisfying to see one of them meet their gooey demise (a scene where they unwittingly attack a tanker truck is great fun), and it would have been more interesting to see them squished in more imaginative ways (cinematic ground that Gremlins gleefully explored).So, not that it's really saying much, but this is definitely one of the better done campy giant marauding bug movies. "},{"Title":"Take a sidetrack to a funny movie","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie out of boredom, I had a couple of hours to waste on a trip and the theater had only one movie starting within 30 minutes, namely 8 Legged Freaks. I figured why not, how bad can it be. Wow. It was funny, really funny. The special effects were well done and the acting was a lot better than I expected from a movie starring Kari Wurher, who has always been a pathetic actress (until this movie). The movie says to the audience This is a cheesy sci-fi/horror movie, relax and enjoy. If you do the first you will do the second. I liked it as a great popcorn movie. "},{"Title":"Easily beat my low expectations","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I have to say that as soon as I saw the commercials for this film, I thought it would be entertaining, just coz it looked so bad.  Well, it wasn't that great, but it was better than I thought.  I wish that they actually hadn't revealed so much about the spiders and we might have been a bit more scared.  As it was, there was no mystery after about 30 minutes.  The plot was full of holes and the writing was stilted at best.  There were a few decent lines, but by and large, if there weren't more fun with the spider chases and the spiders inflicting violence on everything and anything, this movie would have blown, big time.  Still, like I said, I liked it for the sense that it seemed to have, even in the advertising, that it was gonna be a classic B movie.  The violence and the chases were truly cheesy and the movie did have a lot of fun with its own badness.  Still, I wish I had been scared more.  Nevertheless, it was fun and I gave it 6/10 on the voting scale.  It was worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"A fun overgrown rodent genre movie!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you're going to see this movie, do not take this movie seriously. This movie is just meant to be fun, and that exactly is what it was. It was a fun movie to sit through, with a few thrills, shocks and many laughs. You've even got to laugh at the movie itself by going back into the genres like Frogs Alligator and many others in the same genre as this one. If you like those, then this is a definite one to see because it goes back to the good old days with overgrown rodents invading a small town. Just don't take the movie seriously, or you definitely won't enjoy it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Move over Tremors, ELF is in town!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  First, this was much better than Tremors.  This is the movie that Tremors tried to be.  David Arquette was much better than Kevin Bacon.  And the Sherrif was much more believable than Reba MacEntire's character!  One character stole the show though The black radio conspiracy theorist played by Doug E. Doug!!  He was even in a little trailor that looked like Art Bell's!!  David Arquette and Doug E. Doug had great chemistry together.  Also, David Arquette has a great little smirk on his face the ENTIRE movie.  It's almost as if he's trying to act like Bill Pullman in a reduxial way.  As far as the spiders?  Well, they were so much better than the spiders from other spider movies that it's not even funny.  This movie was not graphic at all though.  There was NO Blood.  I REPEAT, there was NO BLOOD.  There was some funny scenes where humans became cocooned but that's about it.  So, did I like this movie?  Well, it's not worth what I paid for it. "}{"Title":"What were you expecting?","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  **Some minor spoilers**We live in an ironic age, and as such, the characters in our monster movies are aware of their own cliches even as they act them out.  Nobody ever listens to the kid, says a 10-year-old boy who has discovered that the spiders his friend has kept have ingested toxic waste and grown to gargantuan proportions.  His mother chastises him for his media-induced fantasies.  She's also the local sheriff of the small Arizona town they inhabit, and as such is a pragmatist who doesn't believe her son's wild stories until one of the overgrown spiders climbs in her window.Eight Legged Freaks reminded me of Arachnophobia from several years ago, although in that movie the spiders were normal sized (in most cases).  Here they are terrifyingly huge, and that adds to the creepiness factor.  We have a love/hate relationship with spiders.  On the one hand they get rid of lots of pests, but on the other, we don't really want to see them around the house.  That makes the thought of having them grow to many times their size a chilling one.  And yet, Freaks remains mired firmly in camp, poking fun at itself, and that is as it should be.  No movie about giant spiders should take itself very seriously.David Arquette's character takes on the role of the hero, returning to town after 10 years in the hopes of picking up on a romance with the sheriff where he left off.  Too bad for him the spiders arrive at the same time.  He owns the gold mines left to him by his late father, and you don't win any awards for guessing if the mines will be crawling with spiders by the end of the movie.  Eventually he teams up with the sheriff and leads the townspeople in a last stand at the ill-conceived mall.The spiders, although huge and computer-generated, are very convincing.  It's clear that spiders were carefully studied to mimic their movements as much as possible.  This adds a dimension as dirtbikers are chased by jumping spiders, and a giant tarantula lumbers over to a mobile home and knocks it over.  All of them seem to leak green goo as they get shot at, and make strange noises like growls and keening sounds, which is some feat since spiders have no vocal chords.  They also have a nasty way of wrapping their victims up and saving them for later.  I have to wonder if spiders would really be this aggressive towards humans, or if they might not go after prey that can't arm itself with guns.  But these are not questions to be asked in a movie like this.Why are we drawn to monster movies?  I can't say.  Perhaps the impossibility of the situation presented provides a comfort, a way of giving our fears a form they could never take in reality.  Or maybe we just like seeing people getting snatched off the street by giant, eight-legged monstrosities.  On a basic, B-movie level, this is a superior example of it's craft.  "},{"Title":"This Movie Deserves a 5. It Confuses The Audience To Much","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Based On My Viewing Of The Movie (Eight Legged Freaks) I Have Come To a Conclusion that the movie deserves a lower grade than a 6. When I Viewed It, I heard other audience members laugh or scream when A Spider attacked someone. I Have to Admit I laughed myself at a lot of the scenes. My Girlfriend was a little of both. In My Point, If The Directors of the past wanted to scare us, they would scare us. These Directors knew how to scare the audience and have them not give a giggle. In 8 Legged freaks, The directer does both during a special effects movie when we are supposed to be scared and wetting our pants. Independence Day was more scarier then this movie and we laughed a few times, not at almost every scene. "},{"Title":"A Great mindless summer action pic","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Not necessarily one that will stick in your mind, though, unlessyou're scared of spiders (and there were a couple of times i had topick my feet up off the floor). The pace is frantic, the violent ends of the various townsfolk arefast-paced, comic and sometimes a little disturbing (the scenebehind the diner, for instance), but the comedy just keeps comingtoo. One thing i didn't like was how they tried to give the various types ofspiders personality, mostly by giving them almost  gremlins-sounding voices. It took away from the tension some ofthe scenes could have had. But i imagine they did that to get morekids to see the movie. "},{"Title":"Get caught in this web...","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is without a doubt the best monster B-movie. Sure, it does follow a formula. It does have all the stereotypes. And it does have plotholes. But I ask this of you, who cares!?!. Who goes to a movie called Eight Legged Freaks thinking its gonna be a serious movie? If you rate this film low, then may God have pity on your soul. It may have some scientfic names for the spiders, but so what? Its just a B-movie. And one more thing, David Arquette; I might get shot for this; could be the next Bruce Campbell. He could really be the prince of B-movies, if he plays his cards right. Well, that is all. Go see this movie and bring B-movies to the spotlight once again! "},{"Title":"Def. worthy of yer time. I had a ball.","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  More than lives up to it's 'Tarantula'/'Them' '50's Big Bug flick heritage, save that instead of Stop action/claymation/real bug footage blowed up REAL big-we get very good CGI F/X instead. That's the only real difference.You have the fun B-level Cast-Kari Wuhrer(Sliders), the Other girl(Not Thora Birch), from Ghostworld, ummmm the heavy Deputy and the corrupt Mall owner-and Arquette-all perfect. Familiar faces doing the familiar B-movie type things. Heck, even though it's not PC to say it-Doug E Doug wasn't that far from Mantan Moreland in a couple scenes-and no I don't mean to be harsh. It's the way it was written.Set in a kinda Bisbee AZ mining town, the bugs go on the attack once the Radioactive Green goo has seeped into the water and into their foodchains. It's great fun, you get every single Zombie/Mad monsters on the loose cliche imaginable, including bang up finale, Big Mad Head Monster showing up at the end, impossible stunts, and of course the ever popular 'Let's get surrounded in the Mall by the Monsters' bit too.No one takes this seriously, and neither should you the audience. Go see it for the sheer fun of a Big Bug flick, and you will enjoy.*** outta **** "},{"Title":"Ladies & Gentlemen...","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The Saturday afternoon monster movie is back!  For those of you who enjoy giant creatures gobbling up small town folk, special effects worthy of a King Kong / Godzilla nod, plenty of laughs, and lots of action, then you will enjoy this movie.  If you are the kind of person that needs to have what they like to call a Plot or Story line then don't even bother.  If you want insect guts splattered all over the place, madness and mayhem, and characters you can't help but love, then this is *the* movie to see.  I give it eight hairy thumbs up! "},{"Title":"a bad movie","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Pros Attractive female leads. Some good jokes (No one ever believes the kid).Cons Terrible acting. Goofy story with tons of CGI. Plenty of cliches. Scenes where you want to shout at the characters for the stupid decisions they're making. Predictable. Completely devoid of suspense.Result Brainless summer entertainment. Sure, it's a bad movie. But at least it doesn't to pretend to have great subtexts. It's supposed to just be a fun summer movie. I didn't hate this movie, but I wish I'd seen something else. You might like it if you know what to expect (a bad movie). "},{"Title":"Campy spoof on horror films of the past","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was hilarious. I went expecting something cheesy but it far surpassed my expectations. The performance of the spiders reminded me of Gremlins and the human stars played it so straight that Leslie Nielsen would be proud. Some of the information about the spiders was redundant and inaccurate but everyone I saw it with laughed until our sides hurt. There is some violence to small animals and some gross scenes but they fit the movie well. I would recommend this to anyone who just wants to laugh at big ugly things. "},{"Title":"Good solid fake eight","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  What a relief to see such good, solid fake carnage. Lot's of extrasget devoured in Eight Legged freaks and the devourings are of thehilarious type first modeled by Samuel Jackson's exemplaryengulfment demise in Deep Blue Sea with even less involvementin the development of the character being devoured which, voila, isan essential ingredient in good solid fake.The first outstanding good solid fake film I remember was Dawn ofthe Dead. Eight Legged Freaks is reminiscent of that film alongwith the original Blob, Starship Troopers, Them, Tarantula, TheGiant Gila Monster, Bugs etc.  I enjoyed this film from beginning to end although it crept andcrawled perhaps five minutes too long. I wondered who Eileen Ryan was until I discovered that she is thereal life mother of Sean and Chris Penn. No wonder she looked socomfortable chain smoking, hanging upside down in a web of fakespider puke and discovering gold in the midst of a hellhole.I wish Arquette would have found an acoustic guitar and come upwith a cheesy song like Laugh Children laugh (Giant Gilamonster) but by definition an eight movie can't have everything andEight legged Freaks is an eight indeed.  "},{"Title":"Don't go see this movie its stupid.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is the dumbest movie i have ever seen.  The best part of it was when the deputies cat got eaten by a spider. I would not recommend this movie to anyone. "}{"Title":"A question... Do you want to have fun?","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Here's the deal; want to buy some popcorn, a coke (buy the large because you get free refills), spend most of a couple hours being entertained?  That's an idea that has lost its luster.  Just sit down and enjoy what the people that put this together have wrought for you.  It's like a carnival ride, just hang on and see it through.  Maybe it wasn't exciting for you, maybe it didn't bring you to your edge ... but wasn't it fun?  Little nuggets here and there.  Doesn't David give you a kick?  There's a few creeps, too, and the CGI stuff is worthy.  But this movie is about entertainment.  You buy a ticket, you get a ride.  Old, hackneyed and simple but ain't it fun?  Forget all the plot holes and science, every film, even those faithfully recreating actual events are, all said and done, fiction.  Giant spiders aren't about believability.  Laugh, scream, throw popcorn at the stupid choices the characters make.  Go to the movies, have fun, this is how you do it. "},{"Title":"one line summary missing. reward offered.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Yea its a dumb stupid comedy and the beginning of the film is very slow but I must say I laughed several times! The only reason that I checked this movie out was because of 17 year old Scarlett Johansson (Ghost World, The Man Who Wasn't There, The Horse Whisperer...), if it wasn't for her then I never would have watched this movie. Anyway, The spiders were the star of the show, the actors just made it completely hilarious! 7/10  "},{"Title":"Freaky Fun","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks (Originally titled Arac Attack, but changed since it sounded too much like something else) is a perfect date movie. If you spend the whole time making out, you wont miss much, If you are looking for a movie where your date will jump in your lap, or even if you are looking for one that you dont have to think too hard about, this is for you. ELF was a satisfactory film, but it wont break any new boundaries.The opening till the end Eight Legged Freaks never takes itself too seriously, thankfully, otherwise it would be completely unwatchable. The acting is average, and the script was well written. Well, as well-written as can be expected from a movie about giant spiders. It takes a lot of guts to pull off a movie about giant spiders in the present day, and i think it was done with some degree of skill.There were quite a few of the horror-comedy cliche`s  that are so common nowadays, but they didnt really detract from the film. My biggest complaint that some of the film seemed like it was filler, quite generic, and bland until the spiders reappear. the town scenes seemed like a rehash of gremlins and other critter movies. dont go to the film expecting a horror or gore fest, or even a complete comedy. the movie is a good balance that never takes itself too seriously. id say wait till budget if you are unsure, but do yourself a favour enjoy this guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Attack of the Giant B movie","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A widely released B movie?  That is exactly what Freaks is and that is all that it is.  The only thing more gaping than the maws of the spiders are the holes in the plot.  Also forget about the laws of science being maintained (even after allowing for the giant spiders existence in the first place).Freaks follows the same formula as just about every B movie.  First the setup Barrel of hazardous waste gets dumped in the lake.  Couple that with the local weirdo/scientist (who in this case feeds crickets from tainted water to spiders).  While the spiders are feeding and growing the subplots get established.  In this case evil developer type tries to con the town, romance buds between the two leads, and third a mother and daughter have problems they are trying to sort out.Second part  The spiders are loose and hiding in the walls and other dark places where people keep sticking their hands and faces.  Inevitably the first prey are pets and people out by themselves.  Progressing to the stupid person investigating a hole or some such (truly lots of tension! heh!).Third part  This is where the B-movie diverges from other types of movies featuring similar themes.  The rampage.  No more skulking in the walls or hiding.  No more tension or surprise attacks, just people getting eaten.  People running through the streets screaming.Fourth part  The stand.  The surviving people all band together to face the rampaging beasties.  This is also where all the subplots get tied up nice and neatly.  The end of the stand part of the movie is inevitably some incredible plan which saves the day.Fifth part  Resolution.  Everything gets wrapped up, boy gets girl, calvary arrives as soon as they are no longer needed, etc etc.Now if a movie of this type appeals to you, by all means go see it.  If you are expecting anything more prepare for disappointment.  This is simply a classic style B movie.  Only this time it has computer graphics instead of animatronics, puppets, claymation or cheesy overlay. "},{"Title":"Sorry, This Movie Sucked.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I know this movie received great 'B movie' reviews.  And I agree to a point. I really, really loved the way that they marketed this film.  They never took themselves seriously, and that made me want to see it more--especially since I heard the special effects were good.  The reason I hated this movie is the same reason I hated Gremlins.  Once the spiders started stumbling, getting burned, or getting crushed, they started 'emoting'.  Yep, that's right folks.  They started squealing human-like sounds that COMPLETELY ruined this movie for me.  I was going along with it until the spider street-chase scene when--all of the sudden--all of the spiders started sounding like the gremlins did.  They started screaming human-like words such as ouch and eeeeee.  As soon as this happened (about 2/3s through) I immediately hated this film.  It just ruined it.  Otherwise the spiders almost had me! ) "},{"Title":"Why doesn't someone mention the music?","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  OK. I guess I will. There are several laughs (Bob?) based on dialogue, stunts, and critter noises, but pay close attention to the music (who notices the music ? YOU should!) and John Ottman's score will give you an extra humor dimension (listen for a familiar children's melody in minor mode). This is so much better than the 50s giant spider movies it nods to, with the CGI effets only looking a little phony once. It IS violent, too much for any small fry, but teens and up should be able to keep the flee/pounce/slurp in perspective. A little, er, dead in spots, but picks up steam once the BEMs go on the attack.Frankly, I wouldn't wait to see this on video/DVD. There's just too much going on in every corner of the screen and you might suffer from a cropped cut.Hope this film does well. I think it will have (wait for it) legs. "},{"Title":"Great Campy Fun !","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Those huge spiders made me paranoid all through the film , I kept feeling things crawling up my legs and arms! If you like campy flicks this one's for you. Fun, Fun, Fun!! "},{"Title":"um...can we say stewpid?","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, I went with my two cousins expecting to see a freaky ass movie about spiders...what we got was an unoriginal plot (i.e. 50s movies and Aracnophobia) about giant spiders taking over the stupid town that shouldnt exist anyway. I thought the movie was freaky while the spiders were all small and crap but when the jumping spiders began to laugh and say things like oww and help me..i was just sitting in my seat becoming bored with the movie. my cousins and i agreed that the only good thing about that movie were the little kid (Scott Terra) who mysteriously predicted the whole plot. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The movie is a lot of fun. It's not Citizen Kane but is tons better than a lot of other more expensive flicks out today like the embarrassing Reign of Fire. David Arquette really cannot carry a lead role. Kari Wuhrer is beautiful as always but I would have liked to see her with a little less clothing on. But you can't have everything.Rick Overton as the bumbling, but earnest deputy and Leon Rippy as the stupidly sleazy mayor steal the picture. They are worth the ticket price alone.The decision to cast Doug E. Doug as a paranoid conspiracy junkie radio geek was curious to say the least. What they should have done was to bring in Art Bell in a self-parody, something with which he is quite comfortable. Using either David Duchovny or Gillian Anderson might have worked better also.The CG spiders were first rate and so much better than Lucas' CG Yoda as to make one wonder why Lucas gets so much money for dreck in the 1st place. "},{"Title":"Holy God","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Even though this movie seems really far fetched and most likely would never happen ever, I think it would be pretty damn crazy to see spiders the size of horses and what not. Even though this movies plot is as old school as they come I give it an A+ for concept. I give the Computer animation an F. I think they could have made more realistic looking spiders out of paper mache and cardboard. "}{"Title":"Stupid, but funny.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Story line was pretty weak, but the spiders were a riot.  A great B-Movie.. soon to be a classic.  Most people should probably wait for it to come out on video.  I am a geek who likes to see movies like this in the theaters, but most aren't like that.  My advice don't waste eight bucks.. only four at the rental store. "},{"Title":"fun B-movie for the kiddies","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this last night, and judging from the number of people in the theater and the fact that it still needs 5 votes to get on the scale, not a lot of people are interested in seeing it. I think people say to themselves, Are they still making movies like that? Answer Yes. This is a great B-movie, with great effects and a few genuinely fun-to-watch scenes. The plot is minimal, truck accidentally spills toxic waste into a pond, crickets get infected and are fed to the spiders who grow to super-size and start eating people. The best scene is when the jumping spiders chase the dirt-bikers around desert hills. There is no human blood, lots of spider blood, no dialogue, a couple of good gags, and lots of spiders. Probably ideal for kids 10-14.  "},{"Title":"Rockem'-Sockem' Fun... If you're not expecting much.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Don't go to this moving expecting a flowing, grandiose plot with detailed character development and what have you.  Go to this movie expecting... something more along the lines of an amusement park ride.You don't go to an amusement park expecting deep, philosophical meaning or great feats of magical artwork.  You to go an amusement park to simply have some simple fun.  You should expect the same from this movie.The advertising has done an excellent job of suggesting this.  Every advertisement I've seen (from the two or so different TV ads to the theater trailers and, especially, the web site) has been very straightforward about the movie's high gross-out factor (lots of ooey-gooey, slimy chunks flying everywhere and tons of squishing and squashing sounds).  The ads have also let you know that the movie makes no attempt to be anything other than just what it is - just a bunch of silly, simple, slimy, cool, hokey FUN.Go; have fun; enjoy the popcorn! "},{"Title":"Great Spider Movie","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw it when it first come out, and I thought that it would be stupid. But it wasn't. The spider effects look awsome and it is kinda funny and entertaining. I enjoyed it alot. The actors were great and the kills were cool. "},{"Title":"Animal lovers beware!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I really liked this film, it made me look away, it made me laugh, it scared me!! Everything a film should do, however, if you love your pets, it will make you uncomfortable!! This film was not made by an animal lover! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable to start, but ends up slightly stale.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I just got back from seeing this film and my opinions are that it was a pretty fun movie, but got a little too boring at times.  I knew that it would be just like old B-movies and didn't take itself seriously, but I expected it to be a little more funny than it actually was.The premise is your average fare (and one of the highlights in my opinion). Spiders are exposed to radioactivity and become as large as humans.  These Eight Legged Freaks naturally eat every living being they can find, until the town bands together to save themselves.  Quite cheesy, but it seems like it's supposed to be.The plot moves along nicely, and I found myself laughing at the little jokes and other things that happened along the way.  I had expected it to be a lot like it was, but I was disappointed to see a lack of humor at the end. The movie starts out extremely funny (how the spiders are exposed, different characters personalities, etc.)...but ends up like the end of any monster movie.  It wasn't as fresh as I thought it would be near the end.If you are a fan of classic B-movies, specifically those about bugs and spiders, you owe yourself to see this one.  If from first glance it doesn't seem funny, DON'T watch it.  I thought it would be funny, and indeed it was pretty funny and enjoyable...it just became a little stale at the end. "},{"Title":"brilliant throwback to classic sci-fi","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  After being disappointed by several of this summer's offerings, I was very skeptical about this movie.  Sure, the trailers look good, but that doesn't mean much.  Thankfully, this movie proved to be everything I had hoped for, and then some.Eight Legged Freaks is a throwback to the classic B&W sci-films of my youth, the kind that you used to be able to see late at night or on a lazy Saturday afternoon.  There is no complicated justification for the giant spiders, they're just there.  There's no dramatic over-acting, or glaring displays of special effects, not even any gratuitous sex or nudity.  All this movie has is fun, and it's got plenty of that.Beyond the joy of watching these spiders run amok and completely destroy the city, Eight Legged Freaks has numerous homages to classic movies.  Watching for the inside jokes was nearly as much fun as watching the movie itself. This is a definite must-see for this summer. "},{"Title":"not completely horrible","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I normally wouldn't go out of my way to watch a movie that vilifies spiders by turning them into gigantic people killers. I like spiders. They're cool, and they eat a lot of other annoying insects.But it was hot out, and I figured a matinee-priced flick would be worth the air conditioning. Since ELF was the only one playing in my time slot, I went in. Despite Ebert's glowing review, my expectations were low.Lucky. Eight Legged Freaks is not a great movie, and it's barely good. However, there is enough campish self-awareness to make it fun (in the  Tremors tradition) and the characters are pleasant enough. The story is exactly what you'd expect, and nothing is particularly surprising, although there are a couple of genuinely funny moments that you'll recognize when you see them.If you want something light, and you can get it cheap, then ELF is okay. But don't expect anything but big spiders. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Cheese is here!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ok This movie is fun but not woth 7.50! Got to the afternoon showing. This movie is ok although the animators had alot of fun with this movie cause just some of the things that happen to these spiders just gets you. The reason to see this movie is the sound effects. So many funny sounds! Glock, buck, bam, slamp. Oh its funny. if you take this movie seriously then you should hit yourself due to the fact this movie makes fun of itself all the time. Movie is enjoyable. "},{"Title":"great campy fun!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks is a fun filed camp ride.  It got some not so good reviews, but if you're looking for a fun movie that will keep you laughing this is it!  I hate spiders.  They scare me to death.  Even seeing them on screen freaks me out, but I only had to cover my eyes once.  Throughout the entire movie the spiders giggle and laugh.  The characters are fun, and funny.  The entire theatre was laughing along with me.If you're looking for some sophisticated film this isn't it, but if you are looking for fun, here ya go.  Seriously!  I was waiting for this movie to come out because it was supposed to just be nothing more then an homage to the bug movies of the 50's, and it fulfilled it's goal.  I was so entertained.Not only that, but the CGI in the film was believable.  It didn't just look like computer animation.  The spiders were believable, which made all the difference in the world.At the end I wanted the human characters to survive, but I also found myself cheering for the Eight Legged Freaks. "}{"Title":"big ass spiders, big ass action, little ass story","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  it had good special effects, good action, but the acting was a little shaky and the story-line with all the subplots seemed unnecessary. nobody's cares about kari wuhrer's and david arquette's history. get to the spiders dammit! "},{"Title":"21st Century B-Movie","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is the best B-Movie I have seen since Tremors. Sure, the CGI isn't exactly great, some of the acting is poor, but that all adds to the charm. The film as a whole is a like an arachnid version of the classic b/w movie 'Them!'I recommend that you leave your brain outside the cinema, buy yourself some popcorn and prepare to jump out of your seat.  "},{"Title":"Great cheesy fun","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  You know how some flicks (yes flicks, my 3 classifacations for motion pictures) films, movies,and flicks.Buts that a whole nother story.Anyway you know how some movies are so bad there good, well this flick wasn't that bad at all...decent acting , good 50's scifi plot, likeable characters, David Arquete( I know thats wrong but I'm in a hurry) wasn't nearly as annoying as he usualy is, kari wuerer and scarlette johansen were both a (MILF and a DILF) and  smart, tough and  sexy, I wasn't ever rooting  for the spiders to get the kid (as you are in most other flicks like this) and Doug E  Doug was priceless as a alien dooms day  radio talk show host......But most of all it was the SOAPS(spiders of abnornal porpotional size)they stole the show in all their different shapes and sizes....I know I realy havn't told you anything about the flick....The reason why I want you to experience it for yourself (unless your deathly afraid of spiders, then avoid like the plauge) 8 legged freaks, a creepy,crawly,campy,popcorny good time for all   final rating 8/10!!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"better than I thought it would be....","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I like movies that are campy and fun. This movie is not an oscar contender, but it is a whole lot of fun to watch. The CGI spiders we pretty slick, good enough to make you suspend your disbelief for a little while. I have decided to buy a stun gun for my daughter. "},{"Title":"Let the squashing begin!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Maybe the best action freak movie of the last decade! The dialogs are very clever and there is a lot of suspense all the time. Spiders move realistically and feel extremely real. But watch it! there is no relaxing when you don't know what may screak behind your back! "},{"Title":"Mindless summer fodder, but fun!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  As a big fan of Tremors (the first one, not the lame sequels), I went into Eight Legged Freaks with some high expectations.  In that respect, I was a little disappointed with the film.  The premise is way too predictable, and they didn't go out of their way to explain a whole lot in terms of how these spiders continued to grow once their contaminated food supply was no longer offered.  Still, I found it fun and fairly enjoyable.  See it with tongue firmly in cheek, and don't expect a whole lot.  The effects are very cool, though. "},{"Title":"It's all good!","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It's a new classic. It has everything a good comedy should - and the graphics are great! You might read reviews of the movie saying that it doesn't live up to the classic status, but they're wrong. Kari Wuhrer and David Arquette gave a great performance - they where, perhaps, the perfect choices for this particular flick. Don't listen to others if they're putting it down; go out and see it for yourself, you definitely will not be disappointed. If you liked Tremors and Arachnophobia - you're even more likely to enjoy this movie!! "},{"Title":"The best giant spider movie so far....","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw Eight Legged Freaks today (premiere day) and I was impressed.The CG was very good,each spider looked realistic,as if there were actually real giant spiders in the movie.Eight Legged Freaks is intended to be a comedy,but the movie is basically a sci-fi film.The acting in this movie was pretty good,but it could have been better,the spiders were pretty cool looking,and it delivers lots of entertainment throughout the entire movie.The two things that I didnt like about the movie was that the sound effects werent very good,and that the makers made each spider ot have a cartoonish quality.This movie does have a few laughs,but really,the movie doesnt need the humor to be a good movie.I would recommed Eight Legged Freaks to anyone who is interested in spiders,or for anyone who just wants to see a good movie.Eight Legged Freaks was really one of my favorite films of 2002.Some people may say that the movie looks stupid from all the trailers and comercials,but really,Eight Legged Freaks kicks alot of ass. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Suprisingly Funny, yet Spooky","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Great CGI is the first thing you really notice.  The plot line is actually kept up very well I must say.  Granted there are a few places the movie kind of dips towards almost dragging, but overall the movie is pretty darn good. Spooky? Well, with the way things jump out and fly by the screen you do jump from time to time.  There were times when I knew exactly what was going to happen, but the volume level still made me jump.Good summary of the flick  Aracnaphobia on Steroids "},{"Title":"Funny movie that pokes fun at giant bug movies from 1950s","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, ok.  So it's not Shakespeare.  If you're expecting that than might I suggest you not spend the money on a ticket.But it is a FUN movie.  Lighthearted, silly, and at times scary fun.It isn't gory which is a plus...I mean who really wants to see a giant spider eat a person?  But it still has thrills--from the jumping spiders chasing the moterbikes, the mall battle, and well...other interesting moments.David Arquette rocks in his new-found leader role.  He isn't his usual goofball character...but man can he scream!  The supporting cast also does a great job of running, screaming, and providing the occasional one liner to lighten up the mood.I won't tell you how it ends.  I mean come on...it is as predictable as those 1950's ATTACK OF THE GIANT ____ that it spoofs....but a lot more fun. That's a promise.If anything...you'll never look at spiders the same way ;) "}{"Title":"One of the best movies of 1957","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks serves its creature-feature pedigree well; like Jurassic Park 3, it's one of the best movies of 1957.  Special FX have finally caught up with the giant-spider movie.But even more than 1955's enjoyable Tarantula, or 1958's silly Earth vs. the Spider (speak not to me of 1975's hilarious The Giant Spider Invasion), 8LF is a direct descendant of 1954's Them!, a clip of which is seen in the movie.  Seems an odd choice at first, since Them! is about ants.  But Them! was the first and best of the big-bug movies, spawning imitators including not only the above-mentioned spider flicks, but also such late-'50s hits (and misses) as The Deadly Mantis, The Beginning of the End, and The Black Scorpion (Willis O'Brien's last movie).  Like Them!, 8LF is set in the southwestern USA and culminates in frantic subterranean action.  And its sequences of we're trapped and there's an army of critters trying to get in have been seen in everything from Fiend Without a Face and Invisible Invaders in the '50s, to Island of Terror and Night of the Living Dead in the '60s (and beyond, in NOTLD's many sequels and imitators), to Aliens in the '80s and Starship Troopers in the '90s.  It's all very familiar, but it's served up by people with an obvious affection for the genre... and is probably best enjoyed by an audience similarly inclined.8LF's spiders, more than the usual lifeless CGI, are alive with what looks like mischievousness.  They're relentless, unstoppable, and playing for keeps, but their high-octane antics often border enjoyably on slapstick.  A desert chase sequence involving a dirt bike and a swarm of leaping spiders is worth the price of admission.  The filmmakers employ just the right touch of humor, wedded to action and creepy creatures, that made Tremors work so well.The human cast balances the CGI spiders well in this regard.  Having David Arquette, the anti-Arnold, as the hero is a big help.  He shares with Brendan Fraser the quality of being a credible lead with no apparent fear of making an ass of himself.  Kari Wuhrer (how do you pronounce that name?!) plays it straight as the sheriff, a heroine in no particular need of being rescued.  Good thing too, since her backup is Richard Overton's Keystone Kop of a deputy.  Scott Terra is the science nerd who's always on hand in these movies to explain what's going on; he's also a kid.  Scarlett Johanssen is almost unrecognizably different-looking from her role in another genre satire, the noir spoof The Man Who Wasn't There.  And Doug E. Doug's unlikely black radio personality in a podunk desert town is a blend of Cleavon Little's Super Soul, in the cult favorite Vanishing Point, and the conspiracy theories of Art Bell (the voice of Pahrump, Nevada).Spoof or not, 8LF generates incredible tension.  If the audience I saw it with is any indication, it's a crowd-pleaser.  Grab hold of someone and enjoy! "},{"Title":"campy","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie just looks like plain campy fun, I definitely see some aspects of tremors in it, which is one of my favorite movies. this can definitely outdo arachnophobia as long as it doesn't take itself too seriously, which is pretty much a given since David Arquette is the star. "},{"Title":"Gives new meaning to the abbreviation www !!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Friend of mine winged in from south east Asia the other day with a pirated copy (I suspect) of EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS. Blew an extended lunch watching it - what a crack-up!Best described as a comedic version of ARACHNOPHOBIA, slotting in somewhere between ATTACK OF THE KILLER TOMATOES and TREMORS. Totally good natured fun all the way as impossibly-propelled mutant spiders cause havoc in a township that unfortunately plays host to a toxic dumping ground, the source of the arachnids' new-found physique. B-Grade schlock all the way with David Arquette at his wussy best. At least the thing makes no pretense as to its pedigree and plays it strictly for laughs and the occasional over-the-top crawly-fright! Some funny one-liners that will stay with you no longer than the closing credits.  To see, laugh at and forget - simple! "},{"Title":"A funny version of Arachnophobia","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A barrell of toxic waste lands up in a lake. Nearby there's a spider farm. The spiders are getting their food from the lake. Guess what  the spiders are growing. The story is not new. It's a horror movie with a lot of funny situations and one-liners. The many special effects are nice and scary.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Decent","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have to admit (and maybe this is sexist) that when Kari Wuhrer appeared playing the sheriff of this Arizona town it was almost enough to make me give up almost before the movie started. She just doesn't fit the bill. Too young. Too pretty. But truthfully - as the movie goes on, she works in the role. First, her performance was pretty good, and second, it's a movie that forces you to suspend your disbelief anyway, and so the fact that she doesn't work in the role actually makes her work in the role. If you see what I mean. Sheriff Parker has a big job on her hands. Her town is being invaded by giant spiders, grown into huge mutants by the dumping of toxic waste. There are tarantulas and jumping spiders and trapdoor spiders and all kinds of - well - eight legged freaks. (The name of the movie sums it up so well!) There's an interesting enough cast of co-stars for Wuhrer, including David Arquette as the owner of the local mine who's just returned to town, Scarlett Johansson as the sheriff's daughter Ashley, and Doug E. Doug as a guy running an outlaw radio station who believes in every conspiracy theory going.The story's fun, it's sometimes exciting and every now and then frightening - and it does have a few cringe moments as the spiders do what spiders do. Sure it's a silly movie - but I suppose that it does have barely beneath the surface a serious undertone about the environmental dangers of toxic waste. Establishing the romantic link towards the end between Arquette and Wuhrer was too predictable and too formulaic, and not at all necessary for the story. But that aside, I thought this worked pretty well.Don't take it too seriously. Just sit back and have fun with it. (7/10) "},{"Title":"'B' Movie Fun, with Great Special Effects","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Eight Legged Freaks pays homage to the 'B' movie genre with its delicious parody of the old giant monster films.This film is crawling with wonderful varieties of arachnids that have genetically mutated because of toxic waste in the water, and the whole town of Prosperity, Arizona is in for the fight of their lives.This film is an entertaining and funny spider-fest from start to finish and it has some great characters too. The only thing that lets its down at all is the spiders fail to be creepy at any point in the film; as an arachnophobe i would have liked to have felt a little creeped out by the film, but it is only supposed to be a comedy so i guess i can forgive it.6/10 "},{"Title":"If You Build It They Will Come","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Okay, the spiders were better actors than the cast but the movie was supposed to be stupid, light hearted fun - and it succeeded.Bumbling Deputy Pete was hilarious. When Sheriff Sam asked him to help load her son's bike onto the truck Yeah, okay, sure. Poor thing was crying and sniffling like a baby when his wife left him over the cat's electrocution. You could also tell he was totally henpecked by his wife. He didn't even have enough sense to wipe the spider sh*t off his face after shooting it. Something nasty and slimy is dripping down on your head and you don't even care? Greasy, ponytail-wearing Mayor Wade That was an excellent ostrich burger. Gotta give it to him he actually had ostrich burgers as a fast food meal at his mall since he was raising the nasty little buggers on his farm and wanted to turn a profit with them somehow. (Give me one jumbo ostrich burger, fries and a Coke! Ewwwww). He locked the basement door at Prosperity Mall so the rest of the townspeople could deal with the spiders and only thought about saving himself. He deserved to be eaten by the spiders and I was sort of sorry they rescued him. How he ever got elected mayor is anybody's guess. Maybe nobody else wanted the job.Sheriff Sam wasn't very convincing Her daughter looked about 5 or 6 six years younger than her mom! It made her mom seem like sort of a slut and an underachieving one at that --- Pregnant at 16, divorced with 2 kids and staying on as Sheriff in a small, economically, disadvantaged mining town of no importance to anyone but its out of work residents. Did she even finish high school? I guess you didn't need any qualifications to be Sheriff in Prosperity so why not give the pretty, divorcée a chance to wear a uniform and carry a gun? The daughter was just a mean spirited teenage brat and her part was sort of a throwaway.I didn't really care if Chris McCormick survived. He was sooooo boring and not attractive in any way. Why on earth would Sam want him? Aunt Gladys was sort of a hoot, but why was she so alcoholic and ravaged looking? She looked like the product of some hard drinking, inner-city New Jersey, crime-infested ghetto instead of an Arizona desert town.They didn't really flesh out the characters very well because the focus was on the mutant spiders.The movie suffered from split personality I'm a comedy, no I'm a horror story, no wait, I'm an action movie, I'm romantic.....whatever.It would have been so much better if they were either a comedy or a horror story and had a plot that was true to one or the other.I actually did enjoy this movie because I overlooked the stupidity and bad acting and just had fun with it. "},{"Title":"A Typical Creatures Feature, But Still Enjoyble","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is purely for past time entertainment. It is a typical creature type of movies- like Pythons, Bats, and so on. With typical storyline, Spiders farm got contaminated with radioactive substance that bounce-off the truck after the accident. Very kiddish storyline.Yet, the movie is watch able with some enjoyment. Even thought most review said it is really funnyI don't see any scenes that even close to it. The spiders CGI is much cooler than most of creatures movies especially when there many types of spiders. But some time it is like watching Starship Troopers when the big bug attack first and the little one came later. The casting is pretty good and the effects are fine.Like I said before - this is pure entertain with basic story line and nothing else.Rating 5.5/10, C+ "},{"Title":"Pointless entertainment like in a B-movie, but also contains the added loopholes.","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Deserted town --> (spider farm+toxic waste) --> mutation --> giant predator spiders craving for human flesh --> mankind unites --> victory = Ingredients for a perfect monster B-movie. And so is the result. I often enjoyed the entertainment... nasty-looking big spiders crawling all over the town, helpless men running for shelter, Scarlett Johansson in a towel fighting a giant spider, shotguns blazing, foul-smelling (perhaps) liquid coming out of wounded spiders' bodies; and I often shook my head at the most foolish jokes and humor sequences; I got excited to predict the clichés and I yawned in the end action.And that's it. I don't find a little point in making such movies. There must be something new in this venture after all these years. and here's not. The special effects got better and that's the only thing that differentiates it from similar movies made in 50's or 60's. All crap, yet there's ingredients for entertainment -- that's what a perfect B-movie should be. And that's what it is. 5/10 "},{"Title":"This comes really close to being the Tremors of 2002. But not close enough.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks stars David Arquette and is executive produced by Roland Emmerich, so you know this movie isn't intended to be taken too seriously - though thankfully this doesn't set out to be supremely smug and ironic, choosing instead to be a traditional monster movie (radiocative waste falls into a river near the Arizona town of Prosperity, and a man who owns a spider farm feeds his critters with infected bugs, thus causing them to do a Bert I. Gordon and grow to the size of cars) with a sense of humour.Fortunately, director and co-writer Ellory Elkayem never quite lets the comedy overwhelm the fright stuff, helped by some engaging and convincing special effects from CFX, MagicMove and Rob Million's spiders(though Luddites may be ashamed that the computer generated spiders are more believable than some of the miniatures), appealing characters, spirited playing by his cast and a pitch-perfect score by John Ottman. UNfortunately, this blend of Tremors and Arachnophobia doesn't really sustain itself all the way through, because it's not really funny or frightening enough; perhaps if it had been a bit shorter it would have helped.But considering how something like Evolution turned out, Eight Legged Freaks is actually a lot more successful, and a far better twist on '50s science fiction movies than the insufferably pleased with itself Mars Attacks! Though it could be argued that the creepiest thing about the movie is that despite looking more like her sister, Kari Wuhrer actually IS old enough to be Scarlett Johansson's mum; Sliders really seems like a long time ago now... "}{"Title":"Eight Legged Freak-in Waste of Time","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The reviews on this movie compared it to Tremors. I liked Tremors so I thought I would give this one a try. Big mistake! I'm not sure how to be this criticism, so I'll do by comparing the aforementioned, Tremors, with this...flick.Mood Tremors - With a little imagination you could get caught up in the mayhem against the creatures. 8LF - With hallucinogenic drugs - this movie still had no atmosphere.Music Tremors - Tried to add to the tension. 8LF - Carnival style music detracted from tension.Creature Sounds (although neither subterranean beasts or spiders have vocal chords) Tremors - Creature screams fit their appearance. 8LF - Kiddie voices saying ouch when they get blown away.How bad is it? I'm willing to give the DVD away for free and nobody wants it! "},{"Title":"Spiders rule","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The spiders looked neat in this movie.  The way some of them jumped and the ones that hid in the ground were cool.  Plus, even though the size of the spiders made them look really fake, the detail color and body shape of them made up for it. But, on the downside, the plot to 8 Legged Freaks is nothing to brag about. It is a lighthearted horror movie.  Some parts of the plot were OK, and other parts will make you role your eyes. I liked some of the humor such as when the kid complains that no one ever believes the kid. That is so true in almost every movie.  And  also when the sheriff, Sam, calls 911 and says I know you won't believe this but the town is being overtaken by giant spiders. That was funny.  Of course, the lead guy, played by David Arquette, comes up with some crazy plan at the end that gets rid of all the spiders.FINAL VERDICT I thought it was worth watching because I like horror movies and the special effects were pretty good. Plus, I think spiders are really creepy. It was somewhat entertaining and had a few laughs. "},{"Title":"Fun with great CGI effects but slightly lacking.","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Eight Legged Freaks is set in the small Arizona town of Prosperity where a lorry transporting barrels of toxic waste sheds one of the barrels which ends in in a pond. Joshua (Tom Noonan) runs a spider farm t which he keeps & breeds various types of spider, he also collects crickets for the spiders to eat near the pond where the toxic waste barrel fell. Somehow the crickets have become contaminated with the toxic waste which in turn gets into the spiders when they eat them, soon Joshua notices that spiders are growing at an alarming rate. Soon the assortment of spiders break out of their tanks & head into the nearby abandoned mines where all the toxic waste was being dumped, soon the spiders are huge & the population of Posperity have to fight for their lives as these spiders get hungry, it's up to Sheriff Parker (Kari Wuhrer) & former resident Chris McCormick (David Arquette) to stop the rampaging spiders...This Australian American co-production was co-written & directed by Ellory Elkayem & according to the IMDb (never the most reliable source of information to be fair...) was written & shot under the title Arac Attack until David Arquette ad-libbed the 'eight legged freaks' line & that was chosen as the new title although it was released in certain European countries as Arac Attack & the Japanese title apparently translates as Spider Panic! which is a crap title whichever way you look at it. Anyway, under whatever title this is a fun little comedy horror flick that pays homage & takes inspiration from the giant bug films of the 50's & 60's only Eight Legged Freaks had the sort of budget most of those films could only dream of. The script never takes itself too seriously even if it does tend to go a bit too far on occasion with the jokey scenes (the scene with the cat is just dumb while the disappearing ostrich scene is quite funny), the pace is good at less than 100 minutes, there's plenty going on, there's lots of fun references & it's a great film overall with some superb set-pieces but the character's are really lacking here with maybe the blandest bunch of B-Movie character's seen in a long time from the annoying comedy relief DJ & Deputy to an old lady to the greedy businessman to the local Sheriff to a highly irritating kid with glasses who seems to know everything about spiders & if they had put him in charge no-one would have been killed. I just couldn't get behind anyone & I wanted the spiders to win & actually felt more sorry for the killer spiders than the humans. Eight Legged Freaks is a fun popcorn flick to sit back with, take it easy & just enjoy the ride but I doubt I would want to see it again in a hurry & some of those character's are awful.The one thing I will say about Eight Legged Freaks is that the CGI computer effects are very impressive with some terrific scenes of all sorts of giant spiders attacking people including some jumping spiders terrorising kids on motorbikes & a giant tarantula attacking a mobile home. Anyone with a dislike of spiders, there's plenty of them about, might get creeped out while watching Eight Legged Freaks as the effects really are that good. The one aspect of Eight Legged Freaks that really annoyed me more than anything else was the constant roaring & squeaking noises made the spiders, in reality spiders don't make any noise & I personally thought it just sounded weird & something in my brain kept telling me it was wrong. The film tries to strike a balance between funny & scary & for the most part it works although I did think the comedy elements were a little bit too in your face at times & even worse not that funny.With a supposed budget of about $30,000,000 Eight Legged Freaks didn't set the box-office alight, actually shot in Arizona the production values are very good & it's well made with a definite affection by the makers to the giant bug flicks that inspired it. Maybe one reason for Eight Legged Freaks not doing so well at the box-office is because there are no real star names in it, you have David Arquette & that's about it which says it all.Eight Legged Freaks is a great homage to those giant bug flicks of the 50's & 60's & most of the quirky sci-fi horror loving crowd should enjoy it. I did although I found the human character's far less likable & memorable than than the eight legged kind. Goof fun & well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Fun movie, obviously not one to take serious.","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" If you're going to watch Eight Legged Freaks expecting a tense 'monster' movie with spectacular action and a solid story you shouldn't even think about watching this movie. Eight Legged Freaks is a pretty fun parody/homage to the fake and ridiculous monster movies from the '50's.As a parody/homage this movie is a pretty good and successful one. It uses all of the genre clichés and the movie is filled with some typical B-movie moments, characters and dialog, which obviously were put intentionally into the movie. It makes Eight Legged Freaks a fun movie to watch, especially when you're familiar with the '50's B-movie monster genre.But just because its fun, that doesn't mean that the movie is a great or perfect one to watch. There are several things wrong with this movie, which is the reason why the movie is overall still a bit of a disappointing one. I expected a fun perfect to watch parody/homage but the end result was a mixed movie with a fun and comical undertone but also with a disjointed story with simple characters which makes this movie not always a pleasant one to follow.The overly present humor makes sure that the movie never gets tense or horrifying. Because of the tone of the movie you can never take the movie and what happens in it ever serious. That's the reason why it lacks in tension, which causes this movie also being far from an interesting or compelling one. Eight Legged Freaks is fun but not great to watch.The movie its story starts off well and promising but soon after that it starts falling flat when it begins to introduce and follow way too many characters. Some of the characters aren't in the movie for like 15 minutes but then suddenly pops up again and the movie starts to follow them like they are some of the key characters of the movie. It makes Eight Legged Freaks feel like a disjointed movie, filled with some arachnid attack sequence without feeling an obvious connection. This also adds to the reason why the movie isn't exactly a very tense, exciting or compelling one to watch.The effects of the movie are only so-so. I don't know it this was done on intention but I don't think so. They should had made the effects look entirely convincing or entirely fake looking. Now it's somewhere in between.The actors did a great job. They obviously knew to not play their characters very seriously with as a result that they help to set up the right mood and B-movie atmosphere. Especially David Arquette did a great job with this. It was also great to see Scarlett Johansson in a role before her great breakthrough one year later. No way she would had ever played in a movie like this one now, at this moment.By no means a must-see but when you watch it you'll probably have a good time, if you at least know not to take it very serious all.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"ARACHNOPHOBIA ...SUPER SIZED!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  EIGHT LEGGED FREAKS (2002) **1/2 David Arquette, Kari Wuhrer, Rick Overton, Scarlett Johansson, Scott Terra, Doug E. Doug, Leon Rippy, Matt Czuchry, Eileen Ryan, Tom Noonan.  Campy and spooky sci-fi homage to the big bug drive-in flicks of the 1950s relying on the old chestnut of toxic waste spawning a horde of gigantic voracious spiders run amok upon a small Arizona town with Arquette returning home to face the lethal threat with his amore Wuhrer, the sheriff and single mom providing a suitable duo to facedown the ensuing onslaught.  Special effects override the paper-thin screenplay despite its `Tremors'- like attempt in mixing humor with horror. "},{"Title":"Freakin' spiders run amok.","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  With David Arquette starring you would immediately think this to be a stupid movie. Well, it is a stupid movie with a horrid script. But the F/X, namely the eight legged freaks, makes this flick a hoot to watch. A tribute, albeit on the silly side, to those great mutant creature features of the 50s. Arquette and Sheriff Sam(Kari Wuhrer)summon help in fighting off the toxic waste induced giant spiders wreaking havoc on their tiny town in Arizona. Also in the cast are Doug E. Doug, Rick Overton, Leon Rippy and the charming Scarlett Johansson. "},{"Title":"Fun campy B-movie","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Toxic waste lands in the reservoir of Prosperity, Arizona. An exotic spider farmer collects crickets for his spiders, and his spiders grow to enormous size. The townspeople are overrun by the giant spiders, and rallies around mining engineer Chris McCormack (David Arquette), funny paranoid Harlan (Doug E. Doug), sheriff Sam Parker (Kari Wuhrer), her kids Mike (Scott Terra) and Ashley (Scarlett Johansson).This is a great example of well made creature feature B-movie. The characters are likable and fun. The action is ridiculous and campy. The story is well structure, but it's the actors that we love to root for. It's a movie where there isn't a higher calling than to have a little gleeful fun battling giant spiders. "},{"Title":"This multi-limbed Tremors rip is better than it should be!","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Despite the fact that David Arquette is the quote-unquote 'star' of this &#x96; or any &#x96; film and that his name appears before the main title, 8 Legged Freaks is a fairly entertaining albeit instantly forgettable giant creep-crawly romp.In the small town of Perfection *AHEM Tremors fans* Prosperity, Arizona, a toxic spill in the local water near a spider farm (!) has resulted in a new batch of 8 legged uh-ohs. This means Chris (Arquette) has picked a bad time to come home for the first time in over a decade, even if is for the noble intent of stopping Big Business from trying to buy out the town for some initially unknown (but assuredly fiendish and underhanded) reasons.This leads to Chris, a young Scarlett Johansson, B movie queen Kari Wuhrer and some bug-loving kid to join forces against an incredible array of over-sized arachnids &#x96; 95% of them the CGI variety &#x96; who after they announce themselves to the sleepy town jump, crawl, scuttle and leap after, on and over the local population.It's silly, inane, implausible and full of crappy effects and even worse acting, and the sound effects have to be heard to be (incredulously) believed. Just about everything that you could ask for in your B Movie creature feature really.The only major drawback to Eight Legged Freaks is the dodgy CGI, this could have been Piranha 3-ish with today's computers and a few better jokes. That aside if you're after a decently atrocious $1 weekly rental you could do a lot worse, if only to see that even at a young age Scar-Jo already had a fair amount of what has made her so famous today. (I looked, she was 18 here, so it's merely creepy, not borderline illegal.) Final Rating &#x96; 5.5 / 10. David Arquette's best film is a silly el-cheapo bug flick? That sounds about right to me. "},{"Title":"Great badness","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The most riveting sequence that exists in Eight Legged Freaks is the scene where spunky teenager Bret (Matt Czurchy) is riding his dirtbike over sandy desert hills trying to evade and outsmart monstrous leaping spiders. The scene is so ridiculous, free-spirited, and equipped with such an improbable finale it brings a smile to an easily amused face. Eight Legged Freaks is so consumed with on-the-spot amusement, its kinetic creatures, and asinine events that, sometimes, the only thing one can do is grin and chuckle at it all.Its goal is to pay homage or perhaps parody such classic monster films; the ones I can think of on the spot are Empire of the Ants and Them! which follow the same blueprint. The film has just enough fun and excitement to pack in before it hits its slow second act and its groggy third. By then, the joke has become unraveled and worn, unlike the spiders' webs, the story becomes a joke, the characters become lamer, and the film turns into a laborious exercise stockpiled with anarchic idiocy.We are placed in the trailer trash town of Prosperity, Arizona (instantly reminds me of Perfection, Nevada in Tremors, with its adjective for a town name and state that's more than half desert area), where we see a young boy named Mike (Scott Terra), who is fascinated by a spider farmer's collection of arachnids. The spiders are quite muscular, and able to jump a severely questionable length at a severely questionable speed. Upon Mike's departure, the farmer is attacked and cocooned by his collection, and the spiders are free to roam around Prosperity.At the same time all this is occurring, Chris McCormick (David Arquette) returns to his hometown and hears the mayor of the town is planning to sell the mines his father helped construct. He gets into a fight with the mayor, and is reprimanded by the gorgeous Sheriff Sam Stroud (Kari Wührer), the mother of Mike and Ashley (Scarlett Johansson), her rebellious teen daughter.When the spiders begin to grow to larger proportions, the town starts becoming their prime target, and all this time Sheriff Sam was so infuriated when Mike visited Josh to learn about spiders, he now becomes the commander in chief.From there on out, what is to be said? The spiders begin to rip up everything in their sight, the town becomes deliriously paranoid about the attack, when most of them didn't believe it in the first place, and Chris and Sam become the protagonists and help kill off the spiders. Another character is the extraterrestrial enthusiast, Harlan Griffiths (Doug E. Doug), who operates a radio show exposing government conspiracies and broadcasts it through the town. He becomes involved in this epidemic, helping Chris and Sam along the way.The effects on the spiders are surprisingly decent. They are a nice hybrid of traditional, effect-driven monster films, yet still occupy enough realism for the new age. Not to mention, they are sort of fun to watch, especially during the desert/dirtbike scene. Watching them jump is a unique experience too. When they do, there is some audio distortion that sounds like wind hitting a cheap camera. It's not a complaint, but an observation. It provides the film with the campy quality it is seeking, and I must give it credit for that. In those respects, the film achieves what it wants to be.But there are some inevitable things that do come up along the way. If one were to scroll through other monster movie tributes of recent time, they will find a much better selection. Tremors is the one that comes to mind instantly; among my favorite monster films. In that picture, we had sufficient characters who weren't overrating to be cute or memorable, but realistically responding to situations, great character actors in their positions, and some wonderful scenic backdrops to give us a nice, welcomed countryside vibe. Eight Legged Freaks does nothing but remind me how that film worked so well with so little. It was a tribute to the weird west monster films, but didn't glorify and embellish its purpose of existence. Not to mention, it was a helluva a lot more concise, and doesn't push one hundred minutes and a twenty minute climax. It's all worth it just to hear that annoyingly catchy rendition of Itsy Bitsy Spider during the end credits.NOTE The scene where the cat is viciously mauled by a giant spider inside the walls of a house - why?Starring David Arquette, Kari Wührer, Scott Terra, Scarlett Johansson, Matt Czurchy, and Doug E. Doug. Directed by Ellory Elkayem. "},{"Title":"Average creature feature with a few problems.","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" As the title says this movie was an average creature feature. Something that was made now that easily could had been made when cinema was still in black and white. As a whole I thought the movie was okay. However, the biggest gripe that I actually have with this movie is that the villain gets away. The villain of this movie turns out to actually be the mayor of the town who had been bringing in radioactive materials (or something like that) the townspeople rightfully decide to go after him for indirectly mutating the spiders but he actually manages to get away. I honestly don't know why that even happened. Did they plan on making a sequel? That's really the only gripe of this movie that sticks out. "}{"Title":"Spiders are fun!","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film was a welcomed return to the campy B-movie horrors of the days of old.The CGI was good but clearly fake, like the FX of the old b-movies, the creatures always looked fake, that's part of the charm! The cast play the parts with touhge well in check and David Arquette hams it up for laughs.The comic horror is such that it reminded me of Kevin Bacon classic Tremors. And that's not a bad thing at all.I'd have to say this was a fun film watch, and one that never tries to take itself to serious.Enjoy The Show! "},{"Title":"A fun 99 minutes..........that's it, I'm afraid.","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's the return of the classic sci-fi/horror film using large insects as the 'bad guys' and using them as an excuse to create chaos! In fact, it's a throw back to the classical Hollywood era when films like 'Them' (1954) (which was actually featured in Eight Legged Freaks) and the original 'King Kong' from 1933 were made. Unfortunately, this new more modern edition doesn't hold up too well; in fact it wouldn't be a travesty if it was never even made in the first place.The main problem with Eight Legged Freaks is its 'B-movie' approach. Its typical science fiction and horror genre laden content is blended with comedy in a rather distasteful manner and this glares rather badly throughout. The film actually starts out rather well. The stage is set without too much messing around and it's clearly established that the 'kid' is cleverer than his age suggests, we're even introduced to the comic relief character of the film (The radio DJ) rather cleverly and this introduction blends into the initial incident of the toxic waste coming into contact with the towns water supply. In fact, there are a few incidences like this which blend into one another rather nicely; another being the connection between a good action/chase scene and the phone lines cutting out so the beginning is done well. Unfortunately, the acting is pretty shocking all round through out the film and the dialogue is constantly ruined as a result. Another odd thing about this film is the fact that although I'm slightly arachnophobic, I found the smaller, real spiders scarier to watch than the bigger, more fake ones. Any one else who suffers from the fear need not worry to be honest, as you really do get used to them after a while, especially by the time the mall scenes arrive and they're swarming all over the place.There are a lot of annoying flaws in this film, one of which is the fight between a house cat and a giant spider which occurs behind a recently plastered wall. We actually see imprints of the cat and spiders 'expressions' from the outside and this immediately extinguishes any suspense or fear we're feeling as a result of the eerie build up prior to this fight. This also counter acts something that happens later on in the film as a dog is faced with a similar situation/fight and is killed without any fuss at all so it makes you think that the cat fight would never had happened like it did. The fact that this spider remains in the guy's house for, what we assume to be, the duration of the film yet the character living there remains unharmed by it. Are we to believe it stayed there in the house within the walls the whole time? Even during the night when the guy's sleeping? Apparently it did.Another incident is when the genius kid is dumb enough to venture deep into a mine entrance early on in the film. He knows something's 'up' and the giant webs and discovery of a large spider leg should be enough evidence to deter him from venturing into the entrance, but he goes in anyway. Another occurrence is the fact that a character is willing to go out onto the roof of a building yet when we're all finally out there, he exclaims that he's afraid of heights. Did the writer(s) realise this? Did they even KNOW their characters and what they would/ would not do? Evidently not; take a lesson from Tarantino(!) By the finishing act of the film, you can't help but feel that you've seen it all before anyway. The final fight takes place in a shopping mall which is a homage to 'Dawn of the Dead' (1978) I'm sure, not only this but hints of 'Deep Rising' (1998) occur. If you've seen it, replace a motorbike with a jet ski, fill in a couple of other blanks and I'm sure you'll get the picture.All in all, it's an enjoyable film but I can't help but think the whole 'B-movie' thing is just an excuse to paper over the cracks which are there. I'm not looking at it for what it is with a relaxed mind, I'm merely warning/informing you of what is actually there if you choose to watch it. To sum it up in one word Frustrating. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie....","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Hi friends ..it is really a surprising movie. i got bore with movies of aliens. it is an entirely different and surprising imagination. and what about her role . it is so lovely and courageous. i heartly appreciate it. it bring us in a different world with lot of courage and enthuasiasm.it is really a surprising movie. i got bore with movies of aliens.it is excellent story about spiders.the spider that looks so small. incidentally becomes so gigantic.so gigantic that one cannot imagine it.its a great fun. thanks and regardsD.K. "},{"Title":"Met my expectations","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Usually my favorites films are genres as thrillers, action, drama or mystery where I can solve puzzles or guess what comes next but here the story is predictable from the beginning. I didn't expect much from this spider movie but I was wondering how the CGI worked for these creatures. Well, not bad what our computer of nowadays is able to create and I am positively surprised. The spiders seemed all to be real and also the picture was superb. There were some good jokes and the story is based on a big portion of humor but also creepy moments. There were some déjà-vu scenes à la Alien. So if you don't know what to do on a rainy day try this but don't spend money and watch it on cable instead. I bought this DVD very cheap and I knew already that it wasn't a big success. Rating 5/10. "},{"Title":"so crap i left","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  one word to describe this movie CRAP actually there are a lot of words to describe this movie,HORRIBLE,STUPID,LAME,WORST MOVIE EVER (well actually thats 3 words but oh well) i saw this movie at home with my family and i just knew this would be a bad movie watching experience the moment i saw the spiders.they were sooooo fake! and the acting was terrible this movie was out in cinemas ages ago so i cant advise you not to watch this but i can advise you not to rent or buy it on DVD or video simply because its a waste of time and money.it just makes you want to scream,thats how crappy this so called horror movie is. its a disgrace to the actors,directors, movie industry and just humanity in general.ok maybe i'm exaggerating a bit too much but it is crap.  "},{"Title":"eh","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Attempt at comedy-horror movie along the lines of Army of Darkness and Gremlins is fitfully amusing but not especially scary once you've seen enough of the movie to realize it's going to play everything for laughs.  Some of it's cute, and it's watchable, but it's completely forgettable and not worth your time. "},{"Title":"It's an Invasion!!","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks is an unoriginal mixture of other light-hearted fright flicks.  The main three that come to mind are Tremors, Gremlins, and Arachnophobia.  I see Tremors because of the setting (Perfection, Nevada vs. Prosperity, Arizona), Gremlins because of the humorous mayhem, and Arachnophobia for obvious reasons.  I even saw a little Jurassic Park in the kid's fascination and knowledge of the monsters.  I'm sure I would have hated it if I would have paid money to see it.  Actually, I guarantee it because of Doug E. Doug and other corny elements (the moto-cross scene).  But I didn't pay money for it so my negativity only goes so far.  I would never buy it, or watch it again, but it entertained me, so it served its purpose.  Eight Legged Freaks is simply a big-budget version of all those straight-to-video spider movies. "},{"Title":"Tremors is definitely better than this!","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The Fifties monster-invasion movie gets a 21st century make-over here. The plot is as dumb as ever it was; the characterisation is possibly even more shallow; but the special effects are inevitably much better than they were back in the good old days. Eight Legged Freaks is perfect for people who like empty spectacle, but if you've even the remotest interest in a decent storyline then this film is not for you.The plot can be summarised in a few short sentences. A toxic spillage in small-town Arizona causes insects to mutate, and before you know it enormous spiders are besieging the whole place. Some of the locals escape and hole up in a shopping mall, where they attempt to fend off the vermin, led by David Arquette.Some viewers actually found the nudge-nudge-wink-wink tone of this film pleasing, raving about the touches of post-modern irony and the film's emphasis on fun. I disagree. Yes, the film has a knowing sense of humour, but other films like Gremlins and Tremors have managed to juggles jokes and suspense much more effectively than this one. In Eight Legged Freaks, the jokes are everything. There's no suspense whatsoever and the humorous tone simply emphasises the shortcomings even more. Even if there was a whiff of suspense it wouldn't matter a damn, since the characters are so under-developed you couldn't care less which ones live and which ones die. What can you say about a film in which the best thing is the bizarre version of Incy Wincy Spider that is sung over the closing credits?  "},{"Title":"Scary? Ha! Funny? Ha! Stupid? Oh yes!","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This isn't scary, funny, nor even remotely amusing. I've had more fun clipping hangnails and ingrown toenails than I did when I rented this.Take the team that brought you the cinematic classics of Independence Day and Godzilla, add some mutant spiders, and you get this masterpiece of crap. Then add David Arquette of 10-10-220 and Scream fame, and it goes from crap to primordial sludge in no time. The acting isn't even funny, the action is predictable, and the plot holes are immense.Overall, a 2 out of 10. 2 points for the relatively good SFX, and that's it. "},{"Title":"Forgettable irritating giant spider movie!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  ***MINOR SPOILERS***Contrary to popular belief, David Arquette (Scream) is capable of starring in decent films, however, this is not one of them. David Arquette stars as mining guru Chris McCormack, who has returned to his home town to take over the business. Unknown to him, a chemical spillage in another part of town has affected some guy's spider collection, so that they grow extremely huge in a short amount of time. McCormack must try and save the town-folk, as well as his estranged ex-girlfriend, Sheriff Sam Parker (Kari Wuhrer) and her two children (Scott Terra and Scarlett Johansson), from legions of hording hungry spiders before its too late.Ultimately, 'Eight Legged Freaks' is a spoof/homage on the old-school horror B-movies of the 50s that featured these giant spiders, yet it does nothing new with the material nor is it particularly funny. In the beginning of the film, young Mike Parker (Scott Terra) visits the spider-farm before they grow into fearsome creatures and the audience is introduced to various types of spiders- from jumping spiders, a spider under a trap-door, to the very fearsome spider that liquefies it's prey. In that one scene with such obvious exposition; the whole damn film is spelt out, and it was irritatingly apparent. So, it annoyed me straightaway, but I found myself bored with the storyline involving McCormack's rekindling romance with Sam Parker, where Kari Wuhrer (Thinner) lacks any chemistry. Scarlett Johansson, last seen in 'Ghost World', can do better than this film, and her character was very uninteresting. Other annoyances included the amount of time it took Sam Parker to realise her son is not making things up about giant spiders when the signs where so blatant!You'd think the film would get better when the giant spiders arise, yet the scenes with them are not that funny, rather stupid, and lack suspense. There is only one really genuinely funny scene! That being the cat scene, which is ridiculously funny yet a very guilty feeling at the same time! That, plus a couple of decent action moments, decent visual effects, saves this film from oblivion.The visual effects range from good to fairly average, but they are definitely a step up from older giant monster films. Overall, I found this an annoying experience but certainly not one of the worst from 2002. It's a just a tired formula when the cheese doesn't cut it. I don't mind cheesy movies but it has to have the characters to sustain it, and it is not an excuse for bad writing. I've had fun with other schlock horror/monster films mainly because the humour worked and the characters were decent. Or, in the case of 'Scream' (the best example), a film that had excellent characters and combined suspense with humour quite successfully. 'Eight Legged Freaks' fails to achieve anything new by revisiting the giant spider themed monsters, a fails to give audiences a creepy spider movie, and the excuse of cheesy homage doesn't still well with me especially when I only laughed at one scene. Watch 'Arachnophobia' instead to see a decent spider movie. 'Eight Legged Freaks' is boring, contrived and silly, yet a couple of decent moments and one hilarious scene gets it a passing grade.......just!**½ out of *****! "}{"Title":"Utterly Boring","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"    I had been waiting to see this film for a long time, and I finally watched it on cable the other night, and all I can say is Eight Legged Freaks is a major disappointment.  I could not believe how boring this film was.  Maybe I can put the blame on the PG-13 violence (I have seen more blood shed on the Disney Channel).  I can only imagine what a producer like Roger Corman could have done with this material (think The Nest, a fun film on many levels), with high campiness, lots of cartoon gore, and a couple of gratuitous shots of naked female flesh. This film seemed like an homage to the old films of the 1950's and Bert I Gordon, and Gordon may be regarded as a auteur of bad cinema, but at least his films were fun, which I can not say about Eight Legged Freaks. "},{"Title":"Super!","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie rocked my pants off.  If you removed the ten rows of seats in front of me in the theater, I would've rolled all the way up to the screen that's how good this movie is.And a testament to that, I bought the DVD and listen to the spiders make noises.  It makes a sad day happier.  Also check out the short movie on the DVD, it's FABULOUS! "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I was quite excited about this movie. It looked like a good, fun spoof of 50's classic horror movies like Them! and Monster from Green Hell. From the trailer, it even looked like the CGI effects were good. And to top it off, it featured Kari Wuhrer, one of my favourite TV actresses (from the series Sliders). But what can I say - sometimes even the best ingredients can produce a terrible movie. The creature CGI effects were third-rate, nearly all of the jokes fell flat, it was afflicted with extremely poor editing (obvious scene deletions which befuddle the flow of the movie), and all of the major characters were one dimensional. Arquette and Wuhrer obviously have no enthusiasm for the roles, and deliver lackluster performances. The side characters who are supposed to be quirky and engaging instead all just come off like annoying idiots. The best I could say for this movie is that it might be worth a watch on TV if you've really got nothing (and I mean nothing) else to do. Instead, go watch Tremors, The Mummy or Army of Darkness (Evil Dead 3) and see what a comedy take on horror movies should be like.  "},{"Title":"butt numbing","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  i had high hopes for this. Maybe it's why i was so let down. The whole film is classic b movie. And they were not so great in the first place. The effects are pretty good, but doesn't help matters any. The script is plagued with cliche after cliche, it's embarrasing. And that the action become monotone, same thing after another. It's a shame because it could have been so so much better.  "},{"Title":"The best film i have seen all year","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was one of the best films i have seen in a long time, orginal, funny and backed up by some strong performances, Scarlett Johannson in particular stood out for me delivering the rebel teenage girl act to near perfection. Although i will admit not the best film i have ever seen in terms of acting it still ranks up there with some of the best i have seen. The computer generated spiders were fantastic and very creapy and there death scenes were fantastic. Although this film is not a classic it is a perfect film just to abandon your mind then sit back for some of the most enjoyable sequences ever. "},{"Title":"Let those snooty critics cry","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It isn't a classic yet, but should be. This send up spoof of the 1950's sci fi films is terrific. If you look at it for a fun movie, it's great. If you are too serious, then you will not like it. My suggestion stick to those depressing high brow films that make you feel lousy and then a need to reexamine your own being. Sometimes you just need a movie for escapism, save the sense of it all for those self help books you can buy. Check this one out and have fun!!!!MM "},{"Title":"2 legged freaks...","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is just another average to low quality movie. The action is pretty strange, the actors are somehow trying to make it good, but I didn't like it. The best things from it are the girls playing Sam's and her daughter's role. Watch it or skip it, whatever. "},{"Title":"Arachnophobia meets Tremors","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks is a combination of Arachnophobia and Tremors, unfortunately it falls short of both those films.  What it does have going for it are terrific computer effects.  The spiders look great and are quite ruthless.  The spider attacks are quite shocking when compared to the feel of the rest of the movie. Much like Tremors, Eight Legged Freaks forgo's suspense in favor of action and humor.  Unlike Tremors it doesn't take itself seriously enough, a fight scene between a cat and a spider is overdone and detracts from the film instead of adding to it.  Several characters are too goofy for the movies good.  They don't help move the story along and don't add much in the way of humor.  The goofy characters and silly moments in the story detract from the overall flow of the film.  Just as the film is getting serious the goofy characters make their appearances throwing the movies timing off.Kari Wuhrer is also a distraction.  While she is nice to look at she doesn't suit the part as she flinches every time she fires a weapon (some sheriff!).Eight Legged Freaks is an entertaining movie but could stand a bit of polish.  If they had spent more time on the script this could have been the next Arachnophobia or Tremors.  Nice try though, Eight Legged Freaks gets a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fun, but poorly paced.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Is it just me, or was this film horribly paced?  As much as I enjoyed the scenes themselves it felt like they were all just stuck together without any thought of building suspense (or even making sure they logically followed).Still, I did get a kick out of it, particularly the over-the-top elements (squeaky, giggling spiders and the scene with the poor cat, for instance).  I could watch ostriches get snatched up all day long, and the spiders (though looking a little flat at times, especially in scenes with huge numbers of them scuttling around) were nifty.People have already drawn comparisons to TREMORS, and I need to agree with their conclusions this is a poor imitation. No build-up of suspense, no logic, no character development, bad acting.  But it still managed to be fun and silly and just a bit quirky.  Rent it on a night when you don't want to think, but have enough of an attention span to deal with the lack of pacing. "},{"Title":"Kari Wuhrer is awsome","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  She is so beautiful and talented she deserves a big movie. The movie did its job fun and campy. David Arqette is a great goofball. The story is good and it moves at a good pace. Surprised it did not gross more at the box office. "}{"Title":"A good funny film!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks is a good comedy.David Arquette plays a serious role and Kari Wuhrer looked great in the film.Rick Overton and Doug E. Doug was good.Leon Rippy was good.Tom Noonan to Me had a surprising role which he played very good.Though I didn't really think the comedy was with the actors I mostly laughed at the spiders because how they acted. They made little noises which almost sounded like words. It was hilarious when one of the eight leggers jumped on a stuffed animal and took a bite out of it and then spit it out and said something like Puwie! It was very funny! Most of the spiders did funny things.the effects are great! I liked this movie as it was a different type of comedy which was somewhat serious.I recommend all fans of comedy,horror,sc-fi,and spider films to see eight legged freaks!Note The film at the end of the VHS version has special bonus footage.They are scene that never made it in the film which in My opinion the one with Leon Rippy when he talks about his ostriches played a big part in the film but was deleted.  "},{"Title":"Creature Feature!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I am so impressed with this movie.  It is by far one of the greatest Creature Features. What can possibly be better than giant spiders replacing humans as top of the food chain!?  It is in my mind an instant big bug classic! MOVE OVER KINGDOM OF THE SPIDERS!! MOVE OVER THEM!! 8 legged freaks is WONDERFUL! I was not only on the edge of my seat saying, no! not the doggie!, but I was laughing til my sides ached! Yes, my taste in movies is somewhat caseating at times but, even if you don't like cheesy horror, this is a must see!  If only once, you have got to at least rent it! I personally love David Arquette movies.  He makes me laugh and he pulls off his rolls so well. There isn't a movie he has been in that I haven't seen and that I didn't think he did a great job in. And! I am ever so pleased that Kari Wuhrer got such a good part.  I have watched her since remote control and this movie was so much better than swamp thing the series(which I watched quite often....maybe that will show you where my visual entertainment ball rolls). They did great casting Kari for that part and I hope she gets other rolls that show can act as well. My rant has been vented....I made my husband buy me this movie the second it came out so we could watch it. I can only hope all of you at least watch this movie once.....even is it's just for giant spider death...)...and look out for then hand on David Arquette's leg when the dog chews on his pants.  "},{"Title":"Arachnophobia its not","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  8 Legged Freaks is a big disappointment, not because it's devoid of entertainment but rather it could have been so much more. Giant Spiders attacking a small town is typical B-movie fodder and reminescent of a whole host of fifties flicks. What would have helped this movie re-invent if not recapture the spirit of those entertaining black & whites is a little more creepiness and little less in your face visuals.The effects are good, no doubt there. The cast is acceptable, and the storyline - what little there is - fine for this kind of movie. The problem is no sense of terror, not enough humour for a comedy, and no sense of excitement for an action movie.  Arachnophobia pulled it off years ago. Watch 8 Legged Freaks with low expectations and you won't be disappointed, but if you are a horror fan I doubt you'd find too much to hold your interest.I'd give this 5 / 10. "},{"Title":"stupid","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know what to say...why do they always make these type of movies again and again? Many people complained about the plot holes in 'Signs'...well, all I can say, comparing to this movie, 'Signs' is a God. They could have done so much but instead retreated back to the stupid story line which had been used to death. Even 'Mars Attack' is better than this movie.   "},{"Title":"Awful, simply awful.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie just a few short hours ago, at my local dollar theater. My brother treated me to this movie, I didn't feel it was worth his dollar. I would have rather sat at home with a box of Mike and Ikes. I don't even like Mike and Ikes! This was one of the worst movies I have seen in a long time. The acting was below par, the effects were decent, other than the guts that came out of the dead spiders. And the scene with the cat was brutal to watch. Now, don't get me wrong, I hate cats as much as any M-80 wielding eleven-year-old, but the fact that it was so long, and drawn out, and unsuccessfully funny just ruined it. I hated this movie despite the fact that Doug E. Doug and David Arquette were in it.I love cheap B monster movies, but this was awful. My advice, Stay away. I would go ahead and tell the ending, just to discourage innocent people from seeing it, but you'll most likely figure it out within the first twenty minutes like I did. Save your money, and your time, Go rent Arachniphobia again. "},{"Title":" I spied 'ere an okay b-movie homage (groan)","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  OK so we have a homage here to the b-movies of yore. This means stupid plot ideas and so forth. but is this an excuse for a bad movie? No, not really.Here it's giant spiders. They grow giant when, in classic B-Movie tradition, they get lovely chemicals splashed on them. They then run havoc around the place until the Final Confrontation. This is all set up with a bit of a `knowing wink' at the audience - there's a pointlessly large mall in this deserted town that's needed for a battle. The film acknowledges the sheer absurdity of it with a throwaway line. This is simultaneously gratifying (it's obviously part of the pastiche) and yet irritating (pointing out something is a bit daft, doesn't change it from being daft to ironically clever. It's still daft.). There's similar tokens to its parody nature throughout (the crazy man, the kid that no-one believes) which all try and subvert themselves by being very `noughties'. Depending on your disposition they'll either work or irritate.Acting? It's Arquette here people - Dewey from the 'Scream' trilogy. There's a sheriff in it (off of TV's sliders) and her irritating cow of a daughter, and her annoying nerd of a son. All the other archetypes from the movie are presented - rebellious teenage soon, greasy town mayor and all are acted with the one dimension allowed within them. The performances are not even remotely note worthy, just sufficient for what this movie is.Does it all add up though? The film can't often quite decide if it's striking to be a homage or a parody. There's not quite enough humour to make it an outright pastiche, but certain elements - such as the irreverence - suggest it's not quite a homage. As an action piece it's not all that memorable. Certainly I guessed the final set piece from about five minutes into the movie (please directors, don't be so irritatingly heavy with your fore-shadowing!). This means there's not all that much tension or interest at times although you're entertained to a level that there's no need for a nap. It's fun, sure, but nothing particularly amazing. Check it on video maybe with a bunch of friends (so you can share the cost) or wait for it in the early hours some morning. An average 5/10. "},{"Title":"A soulless tale","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsOh dearry me folks,it's not been too inspiring a summer at the box office this year,it would seem.In fact,at this rate,it might even have been better if they'd just not bothered at all.From the title to the premise,ELF is just tired.Tired looking and tiredly presented.It has no idea whether it wants to be a serious blockbuster or a parody comedy,although it's so hard to take seriously,the chances of it being the before are slim to none anyway.It gets some points for the spider effects,which do have an eerie,jolty quality to them,especially when they're seen engulfing a tanker or suddenly leaping out of nowhere and mauling a person.Other than that,come on people,use your God given intelligence and don't let the studios get away with making such an easy buck with such ultimately sloppy work.** "},{"Title":"when is it too much??","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The last Thursday in every month you can go buy a surprise-ticket in some of the Danish theaters - you've then bought a ticket for a movie you don't even know the title of!!   I had feared this Surprise Premiere would be Eight Legged Freaks, but I had hoped the theater would have more sence than that to show this type of film - they lagged that!!!Yes, I was sceptic, very sceptic, but as the movie got begun and we as the audience were pulled further and further into the story, you just got a point were you felt like sayingCome ooon!!. A movie like this... in fact, this movie exactly shouldn't be taken seriously in any way, and perhaps that was my problem!!   Watching some of the scenes gave the idea that movie TRIED to be serious, when it didn't work out like that in any of the attempts.BUT, towards the end of the film, with the chase through the mall, and through the mine underneath the city, it became more and more interesting in a B-film-mid-20th-century-kind-of-way!!Other people here who have given their comments to this film has brought up Mars Attacks and Arachnophobia - I would say Gremlins instead - especially the sound effects and the spiders-knocking-them-self-out-running-into-the-wall-scenes was a clear resemblance!!! "},{"Title":"A very fake movie!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie reminded me of one of those 1930/1940 horror films were the monster or evil creature of the movie appeared to be so fake! I did thought think this movie was better than the trailers made it look, but the visual effect were so terrible that they made Godzilla from 'Godzilla 2000' look like a real creature! If you want to be entertained by a movie, stay away from this one! "},{"Title":"Where have all the chiche's gone?","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  One thing I have never cared much for is the movie cliché.  You know, evil twins and the like.  You've seen them many, many times.  And, horror movies have more than their fair share.  Let's split up.  Invincible monsters that cannot be destroyed.   Just stick your head into that hole.  The inevitable bad guy who's only out for himself.  Telegraphing the means of your salvation to the audience.  Nobody believes me!  The brilliant kid nobody will listen to.  The rebellious daughter.  Television series die from their inclusion.  Movies such as Hollow Man resort to them because they have no original ideas.  In general, they are a sign of awful film making.Interestingly enough, Eight Legged Freaks appears to have spent considerable effort cataloging the horror/monster genre cliché's in an effort to get them into one film all at once, and that they do so admirably.  No, the movie is not very good.  The acting is awful, there is NOTHING you can't predict, the heroes can escape any hazard, and the extras are toast.  But, just the amazing completeness of the cliché catalog makes this movie worth not only watching, but worthy of detailed study by a film researcher.  They have them all, some more than once.  Had I spent weeks working on a checklist, I could have checked them all off as present and accounted for during this film.  So, be sure to see this film, though I don't recommend actually giving them money.  Wait for it to be on cable TV.  If Mystery Science Theatre ever returns, that would be the perfect forum for it.This movie has another interesting characteristic that is worth pointing out.  I first noticed this characteristic in the old Stephen King movie Maximum Overdrive.  It's what I call the surrender to comedy trend.  About half way through Eight Legged Freaks you can tell that the director has given up on making anything remotely resembling a horror movie.  The rushes have demonstrated that attempts at fright are coming out dumb or humorous.  So, they give up.  It happened in Maximum Overdrive and it's happened here.  They decided to make a comedy.  They try to cover it up a bit, but it doesn't work very well.  You know that they know they failed and are trying to salvage what they can.  I did expect one thing that would have been fun in this movie, but did not happen.  I fully expected the ending (after everyone is happy) to exhibit the ominous shadow of a very large rabbit.   "}{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This film fun B schlop, but lacks enough testosterone.  It tries to be like a 50's or 70's B horror film, and many parts they copied some of it well.  What they lacked was a macho, over the top hero B actor like William Shanter to make it so bad its good.  David can not do this and it lack something because of this.  Too bad Shanter got old I really miss that over acting, but the special effects have improved over the years.  Ok rental. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Dreadful, but clearly dreadful on purpose","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  From start to finish, this movie has no chance of ever being any good, and I think that that's what the film makers were going for. They cast David Arquette in a leading role for pete's sake! They wanted to make a B-movie, and they nearly succeeded. The characters in the classic B monster movies from the 1950s and 60s had this sort of breathless amazement at the giant praying mantis/creature from the black lagoon/space creatures that are attacking the town/state/planet. Eight Legged Freaks seems to be winking at the audience the entire time in a this is goofy and we know it sort of way. Most of the time it succeeds in striking the right tone. If you're like me and go into this movie expecting nothing, you will be pleasantly surprised. Let me be perfectly clear though, this is not a good movie, although it is better and funnier than Mr. Deeds. Also, I dare say that this is the finest film ever made about spiders attacking humans, surpassing such classics as Arachnophobia and The Giant Spider Invasion. How's that for a couple of backhanded compliments? 4 out of 10 because it tries really, really hard and because Kari Wuhrer is from Connecticut. "},{"Title":"Running out of juice on the last leg","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is a throwback/homage to old monster movies of the 50s/60s with modern special effects. The giant spiders of several different kinds were very expertly made (computer graphics mostly) and integrated perfectly with their surroundings. Even better, there was more interaction with humans than you'd usually get, because that's the hardest thing to do. Memorable moments included jumping spiders going after motocross racers in daytime, a cat vs spider fight in the walls of a house and the small town invasion by spiders itself. I thought the movie was pretty fun, inventive and better than expected until the last 30 minutes or so, from the mall probably, when it started to fizzle culminating in an anticlimactic journey in the last location.I didn't find it really scary. The realism of the spiders was a bit creepy sometimes, so it would better (or worse) if you have some kind of arachnophobia. The freakish aspect of the spiders was offset by the cartoony high-pitched sounds they made as well as the total lack of human blood visible. As for the comedic aspect, it's more fun and entertaining than actually funny. Lighting was very good, special effects were excellent, acting was below-average to average. Most of the encounters with spiders were creative and entertaining until the last part. I liked it for a while, but got actually tired of it by the end.Rating 5 out of 10 (average). "},{"Title":"Not so Itsy Bitsy","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's depressing to think about God-awful abominations, such as Men In Black II and (wa wa wicky wicky) Wild Wild West, making over $200million at the US box office and yet something as original and refreshing as this barely earning back its budget. Perhaps an autumn release would have suited ELF. But then any movie opening opposite MIIB and taking a portion of its audience is fine by me.While he may not be the best director in town, executive producer Roland Emmerich knows what makes a good movie and his hobby seems to be lampooning paranoid Fifties sci-fi. Think of Independence Day (a War Of The Worlds update) or Godzilla (another radioactivity created monster). Do these movies want to be taken seriously? No, of course not. They were made to entertain and that they do with reckless abandon Eight Legged Freaks is another take on Fifties paranoia. Don't mistake this for an Arachnophobia clone. ELF does not make the goof of creating small monsters. They are massive. The cause for this mutation? Radioactivity. Only, when these suckers bite you they won't turn you into Peter Parker camping it up in a bad Sam Raimi movie.David Arquette plays goofball Chris McCormick, who returns to his hometown of Prosperity, Arizona, only to find it on the verge of bankruptcy. The only chance the town has of making money is to agree the storage of toxic waste in the abandoned gold mines. The shady mayor - is there any other kind? - is already in league with the chemical companies. But unknown to anyone, a rogue barrel has somehow ended up in the lake.Tom Noonan makes a cameo appearance as the weirdo Spider Farm owner, who feeds his little babies food caught in said lake. A couple of weeks later...BAM!! Spider City.Ellory Elkayem's feature debut is an expansion of his short movie Larger Than Life. He handles the far-fetched hokum very well and with a constant sense of humor - the cat being eaten off-screen is hilarious. It's weird that a film with a 12/PG13 rating can get away with so much death. Many, many extras are offed by the ELF, which squirt multi-coloured puss and goo everywhere when they are squished. Perhaps the movie's only failing is that it kills off too many innocent people. While not graphic, there's no big fun in human death.The script is better than you would expect. There is enough character, situation and invention to elevate beyond its roots. It's hard to pull off a B-movie making fun of B-movies, but ELF ends up being a better film than mainstream crud, such as Minority Report or Reign Of Fire.Think of it as Tremors with spiders and having the imagination of Gremlins - only better. Plus, it stars Kari Wuhrer (oh baby!). "},{"Title":"Don't watch if you have any attachment to science or the facts","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I admit I'm writing this review after seeing only the first half-hour of the film on TV; I may not be able to stand much more. Yes, I know it's just for fun, but even in a horror comedy it really would be better if they paid SOME attention to the facts. In particular, whoever is responsible for the sound effects - a whole bunch of them, according to the listing - needs to be spanked. Spiders do not make noises; I'm pretty sure they're deaf. They do not growl, chatter, yap, squeak or gurgle. Hunting animals which depend on creeping up on their prey generally aren't noisy, for obvious reasons. The annoying little boy, who is supposed to be an expert on spiders, identifies the thing he retrieves from the old man's house as a pedipalp or a spider's leg. Pedipalps are not legs - in fact, they're part of the spider's anatomy that it uses for mating! If you put this into human terms, you can see it's a pretty major mistake ;-) Finally, we have the grand cliché of the Big Company/Big Government Conspiracy how many films have we seen where They are the ultimate source of the problem? In a film which throws away all kinds of facts in favour of imagination, they could have been more imaginative! "},{"Title":"Just use the most beaten to death monster movie storyline and replace the monsters with spiders - voilá you got Eight legged freaks","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Why aren't all those spiders eating each other? Why are the spiders chit-chatting all the time? Can jumping spiders only jump?Watch Arachnophobia or instead... or Spiderman... or Spy Kids 2. No really, don't watch this movie unless you'r an eight legged freak or if your under 12 years of age.I liked the look of the spiders when they weren't moving and I liked the scene where the girl zaps the guys groin. The only scene that made me smile was the one with the spider and the pepper spray. That's it, now I've told you everything good in the movie. The movie would actually have had a chance at being creepy if the spiders hadn't constantly made all those... stupid noises. And funny? Only if you ask a friend to stand behind you to tell you jokes throughout the movie.That little nerd boy was also going on my nerves like hell. This is really not a movie for grown ups!The score sounded like from any Disney movie. Is this a Disney movie?Skip this one. 3/10  "},{"Title":"please let somebody send it to oblivion","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I´ll be short and let me just put it this way the script is more than horrible, comedy is so awful that you must laugh to it, acting...what acting, it´s a shame that someone wasted his (and our) time to create pretty good CGI effects for this piece of nothingness. For sure one of the worse movies ever, but it can find competition in likes of Ghosts of Mars. Do not watch this if you want to live. "},{"Title":"Eight-Legged SUCK","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Since about 1978, horror films have had a simple staple blood, and partially naked women.  This movie has neither, so therefore it is not a horror film.Since about the same time, a SCARY movie has to have something lurking around the corner, some suspense... what's going to happen next?  Who's going to be the next victim?  OH NO, what's gonna jump out of the corner next?!  ELF doesn't have any of that, either.Therefore, this film must be a comedy, since this HAS to be bad intentionally... I shudder at the thought of a filmmaker who thought he really had something clever here.Except it's not funny, either.  It's basically Attack of the Killer Tomatoes, plus about $30 million for the special effects, minus any memorable theme music.I watched this 'movie' waiting for something interesting or funny to happen.  Nope.  Many nameless extras fall down, as CGI spiders wiggle on top of them.  Then the camera pans away.  Shouldn't the hero be attempting to save them?  Nope, no one saves anyone in this movie... except for the bitter, chain-smoking old aunt.  SHE gets saved.  Oh, I get it.  Ha ha.  No.Some CGI programmer has a high point on his/her resume.  Meanwhile, David Arquette gets 5 million bucks, and I'm just glad I didn't pay for this unambitious waste of video-store shelf-space.  4/10. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as fun as it should be","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Swerving to miss a rabbit, a truck driver accidentally loses a barrel of toxic waste. It ends up making the crickets in the area `like spider steroids.' A local spiderologist feeds them to his little friends. They get a bit testy, grow too big, and then eat him. Soon, they are terrorizing the small town of Prosperity, Arizona. It should have been easy to make a fun creature feature out of the material, but the filmmakers miss every opportunity. I'm scared to death by spiders (which is why I decided to see it), but there's not even a half-assed attempt to make these CGI beasties into believable arachnids. Spiders are scary because of the creepy way they move, and Eight Legged Freaks' spiders move the wrong way. Not an ounce of research went into the film. It would have made all the difference! There are some funny parts, but not nearly enough to make it worth seeing. Add to that the fact that there isn't a single good character in the film. David Arquette will never be a movie star. Kari Wuhrer and Scarlett Johansson (best known for her recent roles in The Man Who Wasn't There and Ghost World) do halfway decent jobs (although I don't believe for a second that Johansson is Wuhrer's daughter; they're like eight years apart!), and Doug E. Doug and Rick Overton provide some decent comic relief (although Doug's character gets very annoying as the film nears its end, reminiscent of Chris Tucker's DJ character from The Fifth Element). Once in a while the musical score sneaks snatches of The Itsy Bitsy Spider, which is pretty amusing. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Not as corny as you might think..","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie isn't as corny as you may think it will be. It does have a lot of wackiness involved, but it's all done intentionally. It doesn't try to portray itself as a high tech, knock your socks off horror or thriller. It's a portrayal of the '50s genre of horror. As Slapsticky as that was, this is as well, in a sense. The spiders look pretty realistic, if you ask me. Of course, they squeak and sputter nonsensical stuff, kind of like the little gremlins did in the 1984 Gremlins, or like Critters. It's a good popcorn, leave your brain at home, make sure to buy a matinee movie ticket type of flick. But heck, it's a lot of fun! This is one of David Arquette's better movies to date. With many duds in the past such as See Spot Run, Ready 2 Rumble, Scream 3, 3000 Miles to Graceland, The Shrink is In, Free Money, RPM, The Alarmist, Wild Bill, Fall Time, Airheads, The Road Killers, The Killing Box, The Webbers and Never Been Kissed, you can tell from this list of duds, that he's grasping for a job in Hollywood. This film also features Scarlett Johansson (The Horse Whisperer, Ghost World), Scott Terra (Daredevil), Kari Wuhrer (Anaconda), Doug E. Doug (Cosby, Jungle Fever), Rick Overton (Mrs. Doubtfire, Groundhog Day) as you can tell, these actors aren't just fresh off the street. It does have somewhat of a B-Movie feel to it, but the spiders don't look low budget. The acting isn't anything to spectacular, but it's good enough to make it effective. I give this movie 2 *'s out of 4's. Recommended as a no-brainer, enjoyable invasion of the giant spiders flick. Rent it today. "}{"Title":"Ehhh...","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I popped the movie into my DVD player, I wasn't expecting much. Yes, I knew it was gonna be a pretty bad movie, but I wanted brainless fun. It started about pretty good, catchy music, good camera work, but then it just started to stink. I couldn't tell what the movie wanted to be! Was it horror/suspense, comedy, love, a spoof,? Basically, It was one of the biggest messes of a film that I have ever seen.The story (if that) was okay, a small town being taken over by giant spiders, it had the potential to be a fun movie. But everything got ruined! Lame jokes, pitiful acting, annoying characters, the list is endless. They even made the spiders have little voices, like the gremlins, for gosh sakes! This may be a spoiler, but not really.*****SPOILER******* Mostly everyone and everything dies! The first few times it was entertaining, but then it just got sooooo redundant, I could have fast forwarded without missing anything! I mean, who wants to see animals and humans getting killed by spiders every five minutes? ******************I know the movie was not taking itself seriously, and I know the producers of it probably don't want anyone thinking about it too much, but still, I can't stand it when so much money is spent on useless trash that could have helped starving children! Thanks for reading my comment, I'm done. Overall Grade 2 (I am against giving movies a '1', because I don't think there is a movie where every single thing about it is bad, but this came really close!)  "},{"Title":"Arachnophobia rocks, this one doesn´t.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw Arachnophobia when I was a kid and I remember it giving me creeps. I´ve always been to all kinds of weird creatures (I study biology and I love snakes, lizards, spiders...) and that´s why I found this little movie exciting. Whether all that could possibly happen wasn´t important at all, I was a kid! I´d sure love to see the good old Arachnophobia again, just to see if it´s still enjoyable. In the meantime I decided to check a movie called Eight-Legged Freaks which couldn´t be titled Arac Attack because the word Arac reminds every American of Iraq... That´s just so stupid, but back to my review...Eight-Legged Freaks was a very mediocre movie. It´s not a movie that´ll be remembered because it has nothing it could be remembered for. Sure, those spiders look nice (I guess they´re supposed to look a little fake), but they are neither scary nor funny and I suppose they were meant to be both. Those tiny killer spiders in that good old Arachnophobia were a lot scarier because they were more realistic.Eight-Legged Freaks lacks a real momentum and it runs out of steam after one hour. The plot is as simple as it could possibly be and you couldn´t care less about the characters. Since this is a part-comedy the characters are meant to be funny, but compared to John Goodman´s exterminator in that older spider movie I´ve mentioned so many times they don´t come even close to being funny. There are some amusing moments, but after sometime all that trying becomes very tiresome. I won´t say anything about the cast because there really isn´t anything to say.If you want to see this movie turn your brain off for 90 minutes and try to enjoy the ride. Perhaps this movie just wasn´t for me. It just made me miss Arachnophobia even more.  "},{"Title":"Eight Legged Freaks","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A action/comedy/horror/sci-if about spiders that are growing extremely fast because of a barrel of toxic substance leaked into a small pond.So now this little town is in a lot of danger.Laughing out loud OK you have got to be kidding me if they call this a horror then i am Elvis Presely.This is one of the better monster movies i have ever seen but that isn't saying a lot is it?The acting isn't quite as bad as i thought it would be but its still pretty pathetic.The storyline was horrible it was so stupid the directing was of course ridiculous and the screenplay was also Ridiculous.Best actor/actress-there really wasn't one but if i have to name one i guess it would be Scarlett Johansson. I didn't really expect better-JakeHyden I rated this movie 4 out of 10 4/10 "},{"Title":"is it really worth your time","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I watched it at the theaters and it was boring. It makes me think for second, why can't I do things that is worth my time, you know? It's worth my time cleaning my house because it benefits me when I have visitors. It's worth my time exercising because it helps me become healthy and fit. It's worth my time typing this comment so that other people wont have to ever waste their time on this useless movie. I spent $7.00 and 90 minutes of nonsense that isn't even worth my time and money. What can I say, I thought this movie was going to be educational and can teach you something about spiders. NOWAY! It actually taught me something else; never watch a bad movie like this. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as it should have been.","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" 1990's Arachnophobia was a great little film. It was scary, with lots of good creepy shocks, but it was aimed firmly at a family audience, with lots of humour and some good acting. Eight Legged Freaks tries to bring the killer spider genre into the new century by adding oodles of CGI. It's how 50's B movies would have looked if they had had the budget and the technology.The idea is very simple. There's an accident involving the sort of dangerous bio-waste which is always being carted around in rickety trucks in cheap horror movies. Via a rather convoluted path, the mutation-causing goo ends up affecting hundreds of spiders which are being reared in a nearby exotic spider farm (doesn't every small town have one?). The movie takes great pains to introduce us to the characteristic of the different spider species through the clever narrative device of an annoyingly clever child who knows a lot about spiders. Jumping spiders, trapdoor spiders, orb-weavers, they're all explained in depth so that we will recognise them later in the movie and go ooh, that's that one which makes trap doors. What do they think we are, stupid?Actually, the film-makers must think that we are very stupid, because they somehow think it is necessary to keep mentioning the fact that the mines beneath the town are FULL OF METHANE, and the characters must be very careful because METHANE is dangerous and the mines are FULL OF METHANE. I'd be amazed if anyone who ever saw this film was surprised by the ending. (Clue it involves methane)The problem with Eight Legged Freaks is that it is bound to appeal to almost no one. As a horror movie it is too silly. As a comedy it is not sufficiently funny. As a family movie it is too frightening. The spiders kill loads of people (which is cool), but they make little squeaky noises like the Mogwai from Gremlins (which is stupid). Worse is the use of cartoon-style violence, totally out of place in a film trying to appeal to anyone over ten years old. On more than one occasion a spider jumps and splats into a wall before slowly sliding down. Really poor.Though it may lack the big beasties, Arachnophobia still beats Eight Legged Freaks by a long way and remains king of the spider films. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  According to IMDB's main genre qualification of this movie, this movie is a Action / Comedy / Horror / Sci-Fi flick For me, the stupid genre is the one that describes this movie more accurately. Let's discuss the IMDB's qualification**Spoilers**ACTION Well, the movie is more action than anything else I give it that. You'll see a bunch of big CG spiders doing stupid noises, jumping around and killing people throughout the movie. The final sequence shows a Humans vs Spiders scenario in which you know who will win and lasts way more than it should. Pretty typical for this kind of movies and doesn't delivers anything knew for that matter.COMEDY It's easy to do a story when its main story is something stupid. I don't know why people think of this movie as funny since there are so many better comedy-horror movies out there. Nothing here was new, nothing here was funny, it was more of a pathetic failed effort to do a comedy. The movie was supposed to be stupid and funny, but stupid is as far as it gets.HORROR Unless you have a very serious case of arachnophobia and you are truly disturbed by big, more-than-obvious CG spiders that make stupid noises, then, the only thing that will truly horrify you, is how bad this movie is.SCI-FI When the need comes for a writer to do a stupid movie with giant spiders, then the story becomes something that can be completely ignored and on which the smallest the effort made for an original, interesting story, the happier everyone is. Who cares how the spiders got there!?? People want giant spiders, people want stupidity and that's it! No much thought required here.  **Spoilers End**Watch this movie only if you are completely bored and with nothing to do (like I was at the moment I saw it). Prepare to disconnect your brain and enjoy it for what it is a stupidity. You'll probably feel bad for the time wasted but you asked for it, so don't complain.I give it 3/10 and that's because I'm feeling generous.  "},{"Title":"Kari Wuhrer is steaming as the heat!","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is your run of the mill giant insect attack film that has been coming out the past 5 years.  It does have a certain charm to it though.  David Arquette is always funny, and Doug E Doug steals the movie with his conspiracy rants.  The film was hit and miss, but everytime Kari Wuhrer came on screen it made the movie better.  4/10  2 stars out of 5 "},{"Title":"Sucks","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This would have been an okay movie in the day of Revenge of the Creature or before.  The graphics look like they were made in Color LOGO and the story is extremely dated.If you have an eight year old who has never seen this storyline, whether spiders, monsters, aliens or whatever, then they might like it if you can stand to watch it yourself. "},{"Title":"This movie is full of flaws","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Besides being totally unbelievable, this movie is full of flaws. It's so sloppy that it insults my intelligence. Why would they continue into the mines when they could smell methane gas? Why would there be no way to communicate outside of town when one phone pole is knocked down? Why would someone own a cell phone in a town where you have to go to the top of a mountain to use it? The list goes on and on. Now going in, I surely wasn't expecting great cinema, but this was just plain bad. *1/2 (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  My expectations were high after seeing the trailer. They were even higher when i saw the movie had the same director as independance day and godzilla. The special effects in independence day were much better then in this movie. The whole movie I was waiting for the spiders to show up. The rest of the storyline was really boring. And when the spiders came, they had a very amateuristic look, like the special effects were from a movie made in the 60's. I didn't watch the whole movie. When it was played for about one hour I switched off my DVD-player. I watch 3 movies almost every night, and I have never walked away from a movie, even if it was that boring. The only thing good in this movie was the pretty sheriff ) That's why I voted 2 instead of 1 ) So don't go see this one, instead you should go out and rent Starship Troopers, it's like the same only 10.000 times better.  "}{"Title":"Fun, but too fun","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Eight Legged Freaks is a modern monster movie, like a remake of any of the old 'Attack of the giant INSERT ANIMAL HERE'-movies of the 50s, 60s and 70s. Or rather, it should have been more like a remake of the, instead of what is was. So, how is a monster movie done in the year 2002? Well, from the typical opening with some chemical making the spiders grow to huge proportions, they mix movies like Gremlins, Jurassic Park, Starship Troopers and flavor it with some parody like Scary Movie. Gremlins is probably the best comparison, but Eight Legged Freaks was so full of parodies and stupid jokes that it was sometimes more like Scary Movie. It was way too much, at least if you're looking for a monster movie and not just another parody movie filled with jokes.For a movie like this you don't expect much of the acting, and that is just the way it was. The story though was extremely thin, with just a bunch of loosely connected events to show off some action mixed with all of the jokes, leading up to an easily spotted and corny ending.I rate Eight Legged Freaks a 4/10, and that includes the fact that the special effects where pretty good and that the noises the spiders made where hilarious. "},{"Title":"Eight Legged Freaks","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" If you have a fear of spiders, aka arachnophobia, this probably isn't a film for you, but on the other hand, it adds to the feel of the film. Basically a chemical barrel falls from a moving truck, and contaminates the water which is right next to a shop selling many breeds of big spiders, and obviously they are all mutated. When they escape, it is up to Chris McCormick (Scream's David Arquette) and Sheriff Samantha Parker (Kari Wuhrer) to warn people and get them all in the mall where strong walls and weapons can hold these giant, some poisonous and all aggressive, arachnids back. Also starring young Scarlett Johansson as Ashley Parker, Scott Terra as Mike Parker, Doug E. Doug as Harlan Griffith, Rick Overton as Deputy Pete Willis, Leon Rippy as Wade, Matt Czuchry as Bret, Jay Arlen Jones as Leon, Eileen Ryan as Gladys and Last Action Hero's Tom Noonan as Joshua Taft. The special effects are quite cool, there are some deliberate amusing moments, and the B-movie feel actually helps, I judged this too harshly the first time, I used to think it was rubbish, now I think it is alright. Okay! "},{"Title":"Horribly bad! for lovers of serious Sci-Fi.","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie when it came out in the theaters I was expecting something like past giant spider films like, Tarantula, Earth vs. The Spider, The Giant Spider Invasion, Spiders & Arachnid. But nothing like them at all. It was awful it was actually a send up or a spoof of old giant spider movies. So I wasted 99 mins. of my money & time on this movie cause i thought it was gonna be something that it wasn't. Stay away from this movie unless u like spoofs of original serious films. There is nothing really I can say about this movie except that it blows! The only thing I appreciated about it was that Kari Wuhrer was in it otherwise it was a piece of s***!. I give it one star. "},{"Title":"This movie was lame","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A film about giant spiders trying to be funny? Were the filmmakers on drugs? A little humor is nothing bad, but the amount here was absurd! It was like they were trying to make it palatable for ten-year old girls. But how can that be? There are scenes of spiders sucking the life out of webbed human beings! And those silly spider voices. Oh Lord, was I ever laughing... NOT! This is why I like similar themed 50s films more they don't try to be something they're not. You watch THEM, and THEM is what you get. Is THEM a children's film? I don't know, but I did see it first when I was a child. Oh, no wait. That's right. People are so much more SOPHISTICATED today. They can never accept giant spiders on the loose, so it's got to be made into a comedy for them to enjoy. Obviously there is a contigent of people out there who think genre stuff is ridiculous. OK/Whatever. But why do some people who handle genre stuff act as though they need to pander to someone else's contempt? Avoid this film totally! "},{"Title":"We laughed a couple of times...","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  LOL, judging by the title, i don't think i have to write SPOILER WARNING here.. The plot is SO bad, it's unbelievable, and i think you can easily guess it by the title. Here's the story A horde of spiders mutate overnight, and start killing people in the local town. It's not a horror movie. There's not a single scene that's chocking, and where's the atmosphere? Even if the characters have seen their best friends been eaten by giant mutant spiders, they don't seem to be very affected. They are still sarcastic and make stupid b-film jokes, where they are supposed to be frightened and sad. Okay, we laughed a couple of times while we saw this (when the spiders got shot, and the ugly-made blood splattered all over the place), and the silly sounds they had given all the monsters. When did spiders start making *squaky* alien sounds?And a little one for the goofs At the ending, they are walking around in a mine, filled with methane gas. They can't make any kind of fire or sparkle, because it will set it off. Still, they can run a motor cycle with an explosion-engine. LOL.1/10 stars. crap. "},{"Title":"no humor, no horror","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie basically is just what a child would like to watch. Its totally unbelievable, the spiders become gigantic for a no good reason. What this movie was trying to do was be to scary and funny at the same time. What do you get, a lousy film made for little children. I didn't laugh when I watched it on theaters, nor a tremble of fright. Thank goodness I watched it for free. If you like fairy tales about big spiders growing up to terrorize the community, you might like this movie. If you wanna want to a see frighting and funny movie about spiders growing up to terrorize the community, do not watch this film because it isn't. "},{"Title":"Gone is the gore","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" OK, some pretty good special effects are put into this film. The spiders are well-animated and well-choreographed. The casting is OK, but there's some poorly dramatic moments with most of the characters. Doug E. Doug did an OK job as a neurotic radio guy. The main problem with this movie is that there's no proper horror involved. I mean sure, some little deaths were gruesome like the ostrich scene. But just about every step of the way, there is no gore included like in the original giant spider movies (or any other horror movie for that matter). The little spiders (ok maybe all the spiders) made sounds that didn't even sound spider-like. That was an annoying part. Some of the characters were just plain stupid to begin with and are poorly introduced. Another thing that I found most perplexing is that they don't give a proper description of the chemical that caused the growth stunts. They brought in a rendition of George A. Romero's version of the film Dawn Of The Dead, which I found to be fine as long as nobody's going off on their own (surprisingly, that didn't stick). I feel that instead of just a big, bad female orb weaver spider as one of the main focuses, maybe they could have brought in a BLACK WIDOW, or maybe just a bunch of colossal tarantulas. The humor, drama, action, and horror were all very poorly done, and the script was average. I mean, come on. I expected horror, as in supposedly non-stop action, gore, and guns. That's the horror genre that I know. I can accept that they mixed extreme humor with horror in the Scary Movie series, but in a giant spider movie? 4/10 "},{"Title":"Watching spiders on the Discovery Channel is more entertaining than this.","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" No surprises.With a title like this you know you're gonna expect a stinker. I can't believe people rated this higher then a 5. Are you kidding me?? I'm reading all asinine comments how great and entertaining this film was. I fail to see any kind of cinematic qualities to this film. Besides the corny plot, the only thing more horrendous than the gigantic mutated spiders is the acting. The only reason why I decided to see this film was because of Scarlett Johansson. What a jump from this movie to Lost in Translation.If you are a Scarlett fan I still wouldn't recommend this film, she plays a very minor role anyway.Stay far away. "},{"Title":"One of the very worst pictures of the year","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Doesn't seem that besides exceptions like Scream, Airheads (maybe not that one) and I, uh, can't think of a third one, that in every movie David Arquette does the script is tailor made for him?  Quite likely, as is seen now with Eight Legged Freaks, a torrential downpour of bad cliches from the days of sci-fi b-flicks from the 50's and more blasphymously from Dawn of the Dead by leading the film up to a confrontation in a mall.  Except that here it's not metaphorical and flesh eating zombies, but just ferrocious spiders that grow enormously from toxic waste and tear a small Arizona town down.  Not one spark of pleasantness, not one moment of surprise, thrill or admirement, bottom line, a flat out disaster of a movie.  period.  F+ (I laughed a couple of time when spiders got shot) "}]