[{"Title":"A Martial Arts Action Film Done Right","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"47 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Liu Jian (aka Johnny) is a top level cop from Bejing on temporary assignment in Paris to aid French police in a sting operation to take down a Chinese heroine kingpin. But things go bad and a double-cross ensues, leaving Liu Jian framed for murder and running for his life. One is thing certain, though, our hero won't be taken without a fight... a really good fight... and a few more after that. Luc Besson's screenplay isn't exactly creative, but given the genre, it's pretty darn good. I know I sure sighed with relief that Liu Jian (played with subtle excellence by Jet Li) wasn't driven by some emotionally haunting past, like the death of a wife and child, as is so typical in super-cop action films. In fact, we get just the opposite--a man who simply loves his job and does it very well, but is still human enough to make mistakes, feel pain and make realistic choices (well, mostly).The story isn't without its flaws, however. Mindless thugs do play their part and there is an utterance of the most over-used villain line of all time Bring him to me alive; I'll deal with him myself (or something to that affect). But somehow, it doesn't sound quite so corny coming from actor Tcheky Karyo (as Inspector Jean-Pierre Richard), who manages to play the heartless villain with a great deal of intelligence. Rounding out the cast is Bridget Fonda's Jessica, the prostitute with a good heart and, yes, a young daughter in jeopardy. But despite its few formulaic shortcomings, Kiss of the Dragon still delivers.What really stands out in this film is the way the fight sequences flow with the rest of the story, unlike so many other movies that seem to be constructed around a few preconceived action scenes. It's a martial arts action film done right. Thanks to the superb direction of Chris Nahon, Kiss of the Dragon is classy, well paced and gives us a near perfect blend of drama and levity (no ridiculous one-liners here, but definitely some laughs along the way). Best of all, Nahon engages the audience and makes the story work to a reasonable level of believability.  "},{"Title":"Not Your Normal Martial Arts Fare","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I expect most of these Hong Kong martial-arts films to be packed with action but most feature either a little humor (Jackie Chan) or beautiful scenery (Hero, etc.) or wild special effects (Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and more).....but this one features a mean edge. I'm not used to seeing these Asian films with a lot of profanity (mainly f-words) or bloody scenes almost to the point of being gross, which one scene was in here.The hero is likable guy played by Jet Li. Despite his martial arts penchant for violence, he has a soft, boyish look to him and doesn't seem to fit the type. He's always the gentleman in here, with no profanity either. The villains, led by Tchecky Karyo, are brutal. Bridget Fonda, playing a hooker, at least wasn't some Pretty Woman type figure. She was rough, too, but at least realistic and I give her credit for not worrying about how she looked in here, beauty-wise.I don't regret seeing this film. It was entertaining, but beware it's a rough movie. "},{"Title":"Very good action movie","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely Jet Li's best action movie since he came over from Hong Kong. Some scenes reminiscent of Fist of Legend in this one. Quite well choreographed fight scenes with good realistic violence a la Bruce Lee. The plot is rather formulaic, as is much of the dialogue (I expected better from Besson), but the movie has a bit of the 'Nikita' flair (guys going crazy with fully automatic weapons in public places). A bit too much talking and not enough fighting, but far superior to 'Romeo Must Die'. The use of no wires is also a very nice touch. Best action movie of this summer so far. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Extraordinary Martial Arts Film","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The action scenes in Kiss of the Dragon are outstanding. The skill of the players, and their direction is nonpareil. One doesn't see any of the little scenes where two or three fighters are jumping up and down waiting for their cues. Pay attention to the fight scene in the police training room. I think its the best I've seen. A trademark of Jet Li films seems to be a display of the highest quality martial arts. His skills, and those of his antagonists, provide detailed and polished confrontations that are simply thrilling. And I love those needles!The pace of the film is excellent too. The action just keeps coming.  There is just enough talking and character interaction to keep the plot alive and well. Bridget Fonda manages well in a role I think was not really designed for her. She is one of those actors who always finds her character and makes it work. The film is violent, to be sure. And the bad guys are the worst. Their blatant, public methods are almost too much to believe. Still, the pace of the action leaves one little time to ponder details. One element I wish the director had left out is Jet Li dodging about a thousand rounds of full auto gunfire. Everyone seems compelled to shoot such scenes, but two guns raking rounds across the hotel lobby could not possibly miss. It is virtually enfilade fire, and no one could get through that. Otherwise, the firearms action was believable and thrilling to watch. Even the music, though not my style, seems to work well with the action. The director puts it all together in a wild ride I can recommend to any action film fan.   "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee nostalgia","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was hoping this movie to be better than 'Romeo Must Die' and I was not disappointed. I truly believe this is Jet Li's English coming out movie (too bad it was released in the summer when other bigger movies come out).I did not go to see the movie for the story line and those who don't won't be disappointed either. The action was great especially the final scenes. Bridget Fonda did not do much (found her irritating in some scenes) but then again, did not watch the movie because she was there.Believable, maybe not ... Jet Li as the new Bruce Lee, most definitely!8/10 "},{"Title":"For this kind of movie, this is good stuff. *** (out of four)","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"28 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  KISS OF THE DRAGON  / (2001) *** (out of four) By Blake French	I admire Kiss of the Dragon because it's a wake-up call to the increasingly desperate genre of martial arts action movies. After disasters like Romeo Must Die and any recent Jackie Chan production, my expectations for Kiss of the Dragon were not exactly sky high. It seems as if every movie like this replaces a story and characters with silly special effects and high-tech action sequences involving martial arts fighting. Here, there are solid, visible characters and an involving story. That's a real accomplishment these days.	Jet Li starred in 25 successful Asian films before making his debut in America as the villain in the lackluster Lethal Weapon 4. His last film, Romeo Must Die, was a pitiful action extravaganza that borrowed elements from Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet. Before this film, I could not stand this martial artist turned actor. Here, he makes a strong name for himself. He co-produces the film, stars in it, and created the original story. According the production notes, Li initially envisioned a dramatic film that combined his trademark martial arts and action heroics with strong, recognizable characters.  	I wasn't interested in making a movie about a big action hero who saves the day, explains Li. My character, Liu Jiuan, is one of China's best agents, with tremendous abilities in martial arts and acupuncture. He's determined and driven. But he's not a superman; he's human. When his mission goes wrong, Liu initially doesn't know how to handle things.	Liu Jiuan is the most skilled law enforcer in China brought to Paris on a top secret mission where he must assist an unorthodox police official named Richard (Tcheky Karyo) in dealings involving some off the record drug traffic. His mission goes awry and he quickly learns that Richard, who seemingly has a limitless supply of henchmen, is the villainous mastermind behind most of the crime in France.  Liu becomes trapped in a dangerous conspiracy-Richard frames him for a murder he tried to stop. Liu also becomes involved with a local American woman named Jessica (Bridget Fonda), who was forced into prostitution when Richard kidnapped her child. The story feels real, instead of a clothesline for countless gratuitous action sequences. There are plenty of action sequences, however, and the fighting does not involve wires, phony stunts, or computer generated effects like in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, and The Matrix. The fights are grounded and real. We went back to the basics, explains Jet Li, keeping the fighting simple and based more in reality. Liu's principle fighting weapons are not guns or swords, but acupuncture needles, which play an important role in the mysterious kiss of the dragon revealed at the movie's climax. Kiss of the Dragon is directed by French commercial director Chris Nohan in his feature film debut. He does a good job of involving the audience in the action, and distracting us from some of the film's weaknesses. But no director could conceal some of the bad writing, terrible dialogue, unanswered questions, plausible motives, and stereotypical character traits. Kiss of the Dragon is not a great movie, but for Jet Li, this is good stuff nonetheless.    "},{"Title":"Terrific Modern Action Movie","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is a hyperactive martial arts movie with a heavy European feel. After Jet Li's fans were left disappointed with the fake, CGI-enhanced fighting in Romeo Must Die he decided to go back to practical, hand-to-hand combat with literally no strings attached. KOTD is the perfect excuse for action, with minimal plot and impossible odds.Basically, Jet Li plays a Chinese cop Lui Jian who travels to Paris to help the police bring a crime boss to justice. But the French police just happen to be heavily, heavily corrupt and kill Mr. Big, framing Lui Jian in the process. Keen to stay alive, Lui Jian flees the scene, but not before screaming, mad and completely hat stand police inspector Richard (Tcheky Caryo in his typically delirious role) sends just about every hardened police psycho after him. Outrageously outnumbered, Lui Jian prevails and fights his way through swarms and swarms of thugs out for his blood. Using only his hands and feet (and any useful nearby tool) he manages to wipe them all out.Far-fetched it may be, but action choreographer Cory Yuen shoots it all in the most realistic and stylish way. You really will believe Lui Jian is capable of such an impossible feat, that's how realistic the action is. And all without glamorising guns.KOTD uses the rule of increasingly mad set-pieces. The first desperate escape through the corridors and passageways of the hotel, the death-defying escape from the Seine Barge and through the tunnels and sewers, the orphanage confrontation and (especially) the final scene in the police station where Lui Jian takes on a dojo full of martial artist police officers, evil twins and finally Inspector Richard. It's all breathtaking stuff and very, very violent. With far too many sanitised PG-13 minded 'action' movies abundant these days KOTD is a breath of hardcore fresh air.If you like this then I suggest checking out The Transporter. It may be slightly tamer but it's made by the same people (producer Luc Besson, Writer Robert Mark Kamen and Cory Yuen) and is also set in France, only with a warmer, more exotic look.The DVD is in 2.351 anamorphic widescreen with a great Dolby 5.1 soundtrack. There are some extras and a commentary if you're into that sort of thing.  "},{"Title":"This is a great action movie that will take you to the &#145;point' of no return.","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  &#145;Kiss of the Dragon' might be just another &#145;action/martial arts' movie that is sitting on the shelf of your local video store. However once you start to watch it, you will realise that like some of its characters, it is a movie that is very deceptive and will leave you breathless. With the screenplay based on the story written by star Jet Li himself, this film has moments that no-one could ever comprehend seeing. While Li might be criticised for being &#145;one dimensional' in his movie roles, it has to be said that he is one of the best martial arts actors going around at the present time.Liu, a Chinese intelligence officer, goes to Paris on assignment and becomes embroiled in a deadly conspiracy. When the man he has come to help betrays him, he is forced on the run, accused of a murder he didn't commit. He teams up with Jessica, an American woman forced into prostitution against her will, who wants to escape and seek justice. As Jessica and Liu go up against cunning and ruthless adversaries, Liu makes a promise to Jessica that could compromise his career, even his life.The star of this film is Liu (Jet Li), who is an expert Chinese cop sent to stop an international drug conspiracy. He is traveling to the city of Paris for the first time, making it totally alien to him. Liu carries only a gun and needles which are rapt around his wrist. These are acupuncture needles, which he has the skill to use, to help heal his friends or kill his enemies. The finale action sequence has Liu refer to the title of the film, whereby the use of a needle technique called &#145;Kiss of the Dragon', which is highly illegal, as it must be, which can disrupt the body's blood flow, making all the blood travel to the head and then killing the person as it tries to escape from whatever cavity it can. This scene was astonishing to see being played out.The supporting cast in &#145;Kiss of the dragon' consists of Jessica (beauty Bridget Fonda), a girl who is forced to take drugs and be a prostitute by French Police inspector Richard (Tcheky Karyo). You do not refuse Richard, as the consequences could be fatal. He has many henchmen that are on the lookout for &#145;John' (Liu), as he has the evidence that could destroy Richard. Along the way Jessica meets up with Liu and they help each other out of sticky situations that have arisen. I enjoy the role taken on by Fonda a lot, as her character gives the story its emotion and balance whereby she helps Liu get around Paris.  I like how and where this movie was presented. The director shows off Paris in many ways, such as landmarks like the Eiffel Tower, which is cleverly incorporated through a fighting sequence. The director Chris Nahon was able to do this, via producer and screenwriter Luc Besson's help in getting leading cinematographer Thierry Arbogast, who did some great work. While the story might be simple on the surface, who can complain when there is such great action scenes to compensate.This then leads me into &#145;Kiss of the dragon's' action and stunts which are exhilarating. Li's character has many fighting sequences that you would believe he has no hope of winning. The start of the film makes uncertain of what is going to happen, then in the blink of an eye you are presented with action and stunts that will leave you speechless. The one scene at the start which shows Liu slamming a billiard ball to kill a villain was unbelievable. Then the fighting scenes at the shop, boat, office building and orphanage are full-on, making them intoxicating to the viewers. However one of the final fighting scenes with Liu taking on a whole class of Black belts is hilarious, as you know he is going to win. &#145;Kiss of the Dragon' works, because where the story is lacking, the action and fighting scenes take up the slack. Jet Li has done some good movies, such as `Lethal Weapon 4' and &#145;Romeo Must Die' where he shows off all his martial art skills. If you have not seen him in either of those films, then watch them by all means. Finally, I want to mention that I have had many treatments of acupuncture in 2002 which have helped me immensely. However, when I have my next treatment of those &#145;little needles' I might squirm a bit, being quick to remember what Liu could do with an acupuncture needle.CMRS gives &#145;Kiss of the Dragon' 4 (Very Good Film) 	 "},{"Title":" My name's not Johnny","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Jet Li really packs a punch in this action farce. I believe it's his best so far...followed by the decent Romeo Must Die and the laughable disaster The One. Bridget Fonda is astounding in this movie. She is a knockout. The villain and his henchmen are magnificent. Exciting and thrilling action at it's finest. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Average plot, a bit talky but the action is great and it is one of Li's best films outside of Hong Kong thus far","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As part of an international case, Chinese police officer Liu Jian comes to France to assist his opposite number in a sting operation. However, Richard turns out to be on the wrong side of the law and frames Liu for the murder of several key people in the case. Liu goes on the run with evidence that he didn't commit the crimes, with only the word of an innocent prostitute to back him up. With even the Chinese embassy unable to bring Liu in, he is forced to try and expose the corruption and take the fight to them.With so many of Jet Li's American movies being pretty messy disappointments, it was no surprise that I just gave this a miss when it came out at the cinema and never got round to seeing it on video. However on television the only thing I am wasting is my own time (not money) so I gave it a try and was pleasantly surprised to find that, though not comparable to his best films, Kiss of the Dragon is easily one of the best films that he has made outside of Hong Kong. The plot may have been made up by Li and turned to a script by Luc Besson but it does come off as a bit obvious and overblown. At times the dialogue is a bit heavy and there are a few moments where the film is a bit talky for a bit long without any of it coming to a great deal but mostly it is pretty enjoyable. It is not a great story but there is enough to engage even if it is pretty poor in some ways &#150; the whole coincidence around Liu meeting Jessica again was a bit shoddily done but the detail is not that important in this sort of film.No, what is important is the quality of the action and here it is a lot better than his recent films such as Romeo or Cradle. The action scenes are scattered a bit thin around the film at times but generally they are enjoyable sequences which are pretty exciting and fluid. The film is refreshingly free of flying and wiring work, lending the fight scenes a more realistic (!?) and brutal air. Not only are the fight scenes good but the mix of the usual action movie 'guns n' running' stuff is also well handled with some pretty fast scenes.The cast are pretty good even if the international mix of actors all in Paris is a bit strange. Li is natural and pretty good &#150; I have always maintained he is a good actor (or at least a charismatic leading man) but most American movies have forced him to be silent and posturing to match the gangbanging story. Here he plays a good character as well as being given plenty of good fights to show how technically able he is. Fonda is OK even if she is a strange casting decision for this character; she does well enough but at times I could have accepted less of her as she is the reason for a lot of the talky stuff that could have been scaled back. Karyo just simply hams it up so much that it would have been possible to actually glaze him at some points near the end. He is effectively bad and it works but he is on auto-pilot for a lot of this. The support cast are all OK, although some of Li's sparring partners are obviously not that good at acting (the white twins are good examples) but fans of Harry Hill or the Pink Panther will find much amusement from the minor role given to Burt Kwouk!Overall this is a good film in its own right but, compared to Li's other American films so far, this is by far the best. The plot is pretty run of the mill but still engages but some parts of the film are a bit too talky for no real reason. The fight scenes are pretty brutal and are better for not overdosing on wire-fu stuff and my only complaint about them was that there could have been a few more. Of course, this doesn't really compare to the best of Li's Hong Kong material but it is still much better than the rest of his American stuff and is worth a look for fans of martial arts action.  "}{"Title":"One to remember","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had heard mixed bag comments about this movie and finally my boy had it on DVD so I gave it a shot.  I was very surprised by the moderate gore in this - it's pretty painfully disgusting to watch sometimes but it's not like that's a bad thing.  Jet Li shows us why he is one of the most well-respected action stars as well as a pure martial artist.  On top of that, the role fits him and no one else - besides I get a blast out his nonchalance accompanied w/ his fighting skills.  Bridget Fonda, who I haven't seen in a while, turns in a good performance as a prostitute who is blown off then befriended by Li's character.  The fight scenes in this were great and I swear I couldn't stop laughing when Jet Li kicked the p*** out of one of the twins(killing him) and left him still kneeling w/ his head turned, that was absolutely priceless!!!  This is by far Jet Li's best in America10/10  "},{"Title":"Jet Li's Best Movie","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe best scene, Jet Li kicks the pool ball up in the air, out of the pocket, times his jump perfectly to kick it perpendicularly across the room into bar boy's cranium. It has to be seen to be believed. I just call him French Boy because his name is alphabet soup. He is a great villain treating everyone male or female like garbage and double dealing everybody. Action movies depend on the strength of their villains, trust me, you will really hate this guy. Bridget Fonda really surprised me in this move; it was a very unflattering role, and she does very well in it. This is important for the bulk of the movie is her rescue with her little girl and she really makes the viewer feel sorry for her enslavement to French Boy and his assistant Buzz Cut. The fight scenes are the best of any of Li's movies. The one that starts in a laundry chute and ends up with Li using anything handy in the laundry room, irons, washing machine and dryers. His speed is incredible; like Bruce Lee, you cannot see the man's lightning snap blows land. They are a blur of speed. The movie's pacing is the real star; some of his other films, like Fearless, have slow parts in them. Once this starts, it is non stop action and intensity until the end.The title refers to acupuncture which Li is also trained to use. The villain is killed at the end with a needle that makes all the blood go up to the head and not come down again. French Boy does a good job selling it. The best fight is between these two brothers, one big and one small, with white Bart Simpson haircuts. The action is one of his best fights ever. Li hides out in a Asian Chip shop with a sweet old guy that he inadvertently gets killed. The rapport between the two adds some needed levity. Fonda also lightens it a little but it is a very dark, serious movie. The cruelty visited on the prostitutes enslaved to French Boy and Buzz Cut is quite realistic. I have always been a big fan of Jet Li but all the rest of you out there know what the giant flaw in all his movies is The Music. Li thinks we all listen to rap and puts non stop loud rap crap in all of his films. I understood it in Romeo Must Die because it took place in an African American setting. Inexplicably, he puts it in all of his movies except Fearless. It is very loud and very awful; if I were you, I would turn the volume down when he fights the Bart Simpson twins. Jet Li's best movie. "},{"Title":"Forget the kiss, this is kick of the dragon.","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What do you want from a Jet Li movie? By the time of Kiss Of The Dragon being released, many of his fans had been vociferous about how his film's were losing realism in the fight scenes. Here, teaming up with Luc Besson & Robert Mark Kamen in the writing room, Li himself set about readdressing the balance for American produced martial artistry. The result is of course a preposterous plot that should duly have been expected, but without doubt for action fans this is a real high kicker that delivers thrill after thrill as Li beats up Paris.The plot simply sees Li as Chinese intelligence agent Liu Siu-jian who is sent to Paris to aid in the apprehension of a Chinese drug lord. Things go belly up when corrupt cops led by Insp. Richard Tchéky Karyo wipe out the target and frame Liu Siu-jian for the murder. But he ain't going to take it on the chin. So with the help of prostitute witness Jessica Kamen (Bridget Fonda), he sets about clearing his name whilst perhaps helping Jessica get her life back on track too. Cue the odd couple forming a tender relationship as they shift from one death defying encounter to another.The action on offer here is excellently put together, there's minimal CGI and even less wire work involved. This is stunts and martial artistry produced by a master craftsman. From a unique use of a snooker ball to an exhilarating smack down with a class of martial arts students, and on to a tag team scrap with the blonde twins, this has enough biff and bam to fill the Louvre itself. Li is on fire, not only one of the toughest guys on the planet, but also one of the coolest. While Fonda is hugely touching in a stereotypical role and Karyo continues to be one of the best psycho actors in the new millennium.Flaws and plot holes here? Of course. Does it matter in a buttock kicking action movie? Course not. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Breathtaking  as well as interesting art martial movie with violent combats , thrills and professionally shot","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The picture is full of tumultuous sequences with frenetic action , surprises , fierce combats and groundbreaking struggles . Classic as well as impressive Chop-Socky in which wild fighting scenes provide an overwhelming view of Jet Li skills . It has lots of fights , as well staged as Jet Li's Hong Kong films . It is set in Paris where a betrayed intelligence officer (Jet Li) enlists the aid of a prostitute (Bridget Fonda) to prove his innocence from a deadly conspiracy while returning a favor to her . Li against time to clear his name and rescue a junkie whore and her daughter . When the secret mission goes wrong he is framed for murder by a nasty as well and amusing villain officer , Insp. Richard (Tchéky Karyo) ; as the Chinese agent will face off a bunch of heinous henchmen across threatening streets of Paris . Then Li has to go on the run pursued by corrupt cops , being his only ally the mistreated call-girl and an old Chinese shopkeeper (Bur Kwouk) .This moving Chop-Socky displays drama , action-packed , thrills , and wild fighting images . It is an action-filled and violent film , being utterly filmed in Paris . Li shows awesome skills , as he hits , punches and kicks most of Paris hoodlums into tiny pieces . The battle scenes are sliced up by means of flashy quick cuts that sometimes reduce Jet Li's extraordinary athleticism to a little more than the backdrop to a video clip . An exciting art martial movie in which , once again , an oriental Chinesse super cop is sent loan to tackle crime in the West . The style of action in this movie was heavily influenced by comments made during series of messages posted by fans on the Jet Li website forum , immediately after the release of Romeo must die (2000) in the United States , the fans wanted more realistic fighting as in Jet Li's movie Jet Li's Fist of Legend (1994) . The rousing fights include deadly use of fists , feet and palms ; being perfectly staged by expert Corey Yeun . Fights , attacks and exciting combats very well staged by great fighters , in fact , here are only seven wires used in the entire movie, the only scenes involving wire work were when Jet Li had to jump up to kick the pool ball and when Cyril Raffaelli performs his one-and-a-quarter backwards somersault-kick ; the result is a strong entry for art martial buffs . Actors made their owns stunts ; some of the players got injured and to had to be hospitalized during the shooting , some of them suffered mild concussions during filming, after being struck several times during fighting scenes . The only scenes that used CGI are when Jet Li falls down the laundry drop with CG flames surrounding him and in the hotel scene when Jet Li kicks the ball from the pool table . Amid the glamour and grandeur of the scenarios , including luxury hotel , is developed an intrigue about women exploitation and dealing with a Chinese agent who attempts to restore his name . Colorful and luxurious cinematography by Thierry Arbogast . Adequate musical score fitting to action by Craig Armstrong . This moving film was lavishly co-produced and written by the great producer/director Luc Besson and well realized by Chris Nahon . Director Chris Nahon had to slow down the fight scene between Jet Li and Cyril Raffaelli because they were moving too fast for the camera. Filmmaker Nahon establishes his signature style of kinetically-paced story-telling through sumptuous imagery , leading to international critical acclaim . Chris Nahon was born in France , he is a good director and writer, known for Empire of the wolves (2005) , Blood the last vampire (2009) and Kiss of the dragon (2001) . Rating  Better than average art martial movie . Worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"lower rank Luc Besson","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Liu Jian (Jet Li) is a Chinese secret agent arriving in Paris to take down a Chinese drug lord. His French contact is vice squad leader Inspector Richard (Tchéky Karyo). Only Richard is dirty and tries to frame him for the drug lord's killing. Jessica Kamen (Bridget Fonda) is an American farm girl forced into prostitution by Richard. He's holding her daughter in an orphanage. Liu Jian managed to grab the video tape showing Richard shooting the drug lord with his confiscated gun. Then by chance, he runs into Jessica again.This is a Luc Besson production and it has a lot of his touches. Bridget Fonda is back and they even use the laundry chute. It's got some fun Besson-like action. It helps a lot to have Jet Li fighting. The acupuncture needles are a little bit much. The fight in the office with the Twins is amazing. Tchéky Karyo is great at being the villain. The biggest problem I have is the big coincidence. It's beyond ridiculous and rings such a false note. With such a big city, she's hooking right in front of the store. "},{"Title":"Why we need a 243rd review","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At the time of this writing, I can see that 242 IMDb users have already taken time off their busy schedules to review this film. That number is a significant multiple of the number of professional reviewers who opined on this production in first run! Which raises the question, why another review? Answers are as follows 1. The IMDb averaged rating is not merely a little wrong, it is crazy wrong. This is one of the most coherent martial arts films ever done. It stars Jet Li. Legendary wildman Luc Besson is behind the typewriter. The under-utilized Bridget Fonda single-handedly carries the female portion of the film, and does a great job. Several of the fight scenes are as carefully conceived and choreographed as anything Bruce Lee ever attempted. (See the twins scene). 2. The script works, I mean it REALLY works. The idea of a lone agent from China seems a bit stretched, until you realize that, if China were to send a lone gun, it would likely be Jet Li. The double-cross works because, you figure, if anyone understands French cops, it would be Besson. The kidnapping works. The fight scene with the pool balls works. The bickering between Li and Fonda at the noodle shop works. The acupuncture angle works. The ending is fantastic. Do you see where this is going? The hallmark of a really good film is that you can watch it from beginning to end and remain engaged. This story delivers. 3. I have explained in my other reviews that I have seen too many martial films in my lifetime. I am no longer sure if I could pass an ink blot test, I would probably think the ink blots were trying to kill each other. This is especially true after my recent review of KILTRO (also done for IMDb). I think I lost brain cells watching that. But this I do know KISS is my second-favorite martial arts film, ever, (The first is Forbidden Kingdom, also reviewed here). If this is not a near-perfect film within its class, nothing is. "},{"Title":"Action Li","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kiss of the Dragon is an action vehicle for Jet Li, a Chinese intelligence agent sent to Paris to help apprehend Chinese mob boss, Mr Big. He meets Inspector Jean-Pierre Richard (Tchéky Karyo), a corrupt French police detective and tricks Liu into believing he is simply providing reconnaissance of a meet involving Mr Big when he is planning to use two prostitutes as a rouse to kill Mr Big and frame Li for it. Li realises he has been set up escapes from the hotel with a surveillance tape showing Richard shooting Mr Big and tries to clear his name. Along the way he encounters an American prostitute little knowing that their paths have crossed before.The story for this film was from Jet Li and it was produced by Luc Besson. It is primarily a martial arts action fight film for Li without much CGI or wire work and Li really delivers. From Besson you get that what is now a trademark Besson style of an outsider entering France and getting involved in a mystery and action where bad guys need to be dispatched with assistance from usually a female. It is almost a prototype Taken film.The best fight sequence is in the police training room when Li is taken aback to discover they are doing karate training.However the film has too many lapses of logic. Karyo is a great bad guy but we see him shoot civilians out in the open, surely someone would twig he is corrupt. We also have scenes of someone shooting at Li from a hotel lobby with two machine guns and again no one at the French Police raises questions. Bridget Fonda looks miscast as the prostitute and it would had been better if her character was French. "},{"Title":"Probably one of Jet li's best!","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really loved this movie...It's even better than Romeo must die.Story is about a China Cop who is sent to France to find a heroin smuggler with the help of french police but soon gets implicated in the murder of the criminal by the corrupt Frenchmen who themselves are part of a crime syndicate involving drugs , murder and flesh trade.The story by Jet li is really good, the action sequences are awesome and show Jet li in his best ever performances, fast moving and active yet humble and simple.The film is fast-paced and thrilling, and will keep you at the edge of your seat for 1.5 hours Watch it...you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"  Once the dragon has kissed you, you  have only seconds  live ","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jet Li has firmly established himself as Bruce Lee's protégé. His talent is not limited to the incredible film work he has accomplished as a versatile actor, but is fast becoming a notable screenwriter. This story is an example of his ability. The Movie is called  Kiss of the Dragon  and was penned by Li himself. The director for this film is Chris Nahon and his efforts have produced a superb and memorable hit for action fans everywhere. The story is inviting from it's inception. Liu Jian (Jet Li) is an able undercover police Inspector who arrives in Paris France, to learn who is behind the drug smuggling between China and France. Once there, he is met by French Inspector Richard (Tchéky Karyo) who allows him to supervise the murder of 'Mr. Big' (Ric Young). However, once the event is recorded by hidden cameras, the murder is quickly subverted and the blame for the dead victim is shifted to Inspector Jian. Realizing he has been set up as a fall guy, Jian must escape and find a way to clear himself of the crime. To do this he enlists the help of a Parisian Whore named Jessica Kamen (Bridget Fonda) who's kidnapped daughter is threatened with death. Together they must escape the assault of the Paris Cops and Richards' expert goons. The experience cast includes some very impressive Martial Arts scenes by actors like Laurence Ashley, Cyril Raffaelli/Didier Azoulay as the twins and Max Ryan as Lupo. Nearly the entire film from beginning to end is one dramatic, exciting roller-coaster ride of action and skilled fights scenes. Todate, this has got to be Jet Li's best film yet. Highly recommended to any fan seeking a kick-ass movie. **** "},{"Title":"You have to see the kiss","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Can Jian protect Jessica, rescue her daughter, and give Richard the kiss of the dragon? Now, this is just about the stupidest question I have heard this year. Of course, jet Li can do all that and more. There is no job too big for the super hero without super powers.As usual, there is more action in this film that you can comfortably enjoy in one sitting. You will need to come back over and over to enjoy it.Bridget Fonda (Jessica) hasn't done much lately. I remember her best from It Could Happen to You. She really performed in this film and added immensely to my enjoyment.Can Jian protect Jessica, rescue her daughter, and give Richard the kiss of the dragon? Get real! "}{"Title":"Best soundtrack and car chase in ages","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Only this and the Bourne Identity have a car chase that I rate this high, the fact that it was filmed in Paris actually added to the authenticity of the chase.I thoroughly enjoyed this film, and aside from the car chase, I still get 'tingles' when watching the fight scene with the tall and short guys in the office, the soundtrack playing during this scene works very well with it.This is Jet Li at his best, without too much fighting, which (although I love it) can sometimes become a bit tiresome if you just get fight scene after fight scene.Excellent use of the soundtrack, blistering stuff, which I can't rate less than 10! "},{"Title":"Excellent Jet Li Film, That Is Really Intense, With Lots Of Great Action And Fantastic Performances!","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent Jet Li film, that is really intense, with lots of great action, and fantastic performances!. This is a really intense film, that actually has quite a few shocking moments, and pulls no punches, plus Jet Li is simply amazing in this!. Theis film really has some fantastic fight scenes, in it and the plot and story was really cool, plus i found the ending very touching!. I was really rooting for the 2 main characters as Tchéky Karyo is actually frightening as the main villain, and wanted to see what was coming to him!, plus it also had some good dialog!. The character development isn't too bad, and the finale is great and full of action, plus, i was really surprised by all the violence!. This is an excellent Jet Li Film that is really intense, with lots of great action, and fantastic performances!. The Direction is great!. Chris Nahon does a great job here, with excellent camera work, great shots during the action scenes, and really keeping the film at a fast pace!. There is actually quite a bit of blood and violence!. We get harsh bloody beating, bloody gunshot wounds, bloody gunshot wound to the head with blood and brains splattering,bloody stabbings,decapitation, chopsticks in neck, and a very nasty death scene at the end which i won't spoil. The Acting is fantastic!. Jet Li is AMAZING as always, and is AMAZING here, he does not speak much, but he is very believable, likable, had very good chemistry with Bridget Fonda, kicked that ass, and was just amazing overall (Jet Rules!). Bridget Fonda is very beautiful and is excellent as the prostitute, she is very likable, had very good chemistry with jet and i was rooting for her all the way to get her daughter back!. Tchéky Karyo is extremely menacing as the main villain, and at times frightening he was awesome!. Rest of the cast are good. Overall a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Nice action, shame about the story - 60%","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jet Li has been trying really hard to penetrate the American market for a martial arts leading man. So far, Jackie Chan seems to be the only one in recent times that has succeeded although considering how many films he's made, perhaps that's not so surprising. Li, therefore, has a long way to go before he catches Chan up but steps like this and the beautiful Hero are steps in the right direction.Jet Li plays a Chinese intelligence officer framed for murder by dirty cop Tchéky Karyo. Rescuing a prostitute (Fonda) from the streets, he sets out to clear his name and seek revenge for the death of those around him, including Burt Kwouk in the elderly mentor role. Plot wise, that's about it but then again, a lack of plot didn't always mean ruin for Mr Chan. No, this film is about Mr Li demonstrating his skills and he does that very well indeed.In some ways, Kiss Of The Dragon reminds me of the Bruce Lee film Game Of Death where he progresses through the building and squares off against an opponent with a different style each time. Essentially, this is Jet Li's Game Of Death but with one subtle difference - only the locations seem to change. However, you cannot criticise Li's martial arts ability as he is simply electrifying. At times, he moves so quickly that some fight scenes are slowed down; at other times, he's just a blur. Remember that there is little wire work in this film and it shows! What Li cannot do is act, unfortunately. I know he's probably not used to performing in English but he just lacks any sort of screen persona or presence. When you consider that he has a perfect Mr Spock-style haircut as well and you find yourself becoming increasingly distanced from the protagonist.So what of everybody else? Fonda does well in a role that requires little more than to look dirty and slutty while Karyo does his best Gary Oldman impression as the baddie. But almost everything else is rather run-of-the-mill as only the action scenes help things along. And when there is no action, the movie seems to run like it's been paused as little bits of the story are revealed the closer to the end you go. Having lasted the distance, I can honestly say that the ending was terrible. It felt rushed and poorly written, leaving me with a nasty sense of is-that-it - not the feeling the film-makers were after, I'm sure. I know that films like this are dozen a dime but why can't there be an exciting and original martial arts film that leaves a sense of wonder and bewilderment in the audience, as opposed to a sense of having already seen it before? Only Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon made me feel glad that I saw it, although I will be going to see Hero at some point as well. Here's hoping Li is better in that than he is in this. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable action, weak plot","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like the characters that Jet Li plays in his movies; they are quiet, confident, efficient, compassionate, yet unbelievably lethal. In Kiss of the Dragon, Li plays such a role extremely well, although it can be argued that it does not take extreme levels of acting skill to do so. Regardless, watching Li in the fight scenes is quite addictive.Unfortunately, the character development and plot could use further development. The one-sided nature of almost every character is a bit unbelievable. Furthermore, the movie ended abruptly and with no conclusion about the impact of the tape of the crime. Granted, the main villain was killed at the end, but it seems that there was a constant emphasis on the whereabouts of the tape until the end.But, it's an action movie and the fights take center stage. In that arena, Kiss of the Dragon definitely succeeds.Rating  6  "},{"Title":"First-rate Jet Li action movie.","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some say that Jet Li's popularity in China is second only to Jackie Chan. After seeing movies by both, I am a bigger fan of Li's. While Jackie is great at comedy, Jet Li looks more like a martial arts assassin. The DVD has a very interesting extra, where Jet Li explains who he is. 'I sometimes play a hero, but I am not a hero. I sometimes play a villain but I am not a villain. I am just an ordinary person, just like everyone else.' This personalizes him, and for me makes watching his movies that much more interesting. He is very intelligent and has an excellent command of English, expressing himself very well. The movie itself is a first-rate action movie. Only a couple of times the out-of-control shooting seemed silly and excessive to me. Highly 'over-the-top'. But most of the story was very well told. Luc Besson co-wrote the screenplay and it has the look and feel of a Luc Besson movie, think 'Nikita' and 'Leon.' Shot entirely in Paris, the dialog is in English. Jet Li is masterful in his role as a top cop sent to Paris to help catch a Chinese drug lord doing business there, but things go off kilter right from the beginning as the French police are not what you'd like to find. Bridget Fonda is good as the street prostitute from America who just can't seem to escape her fate. All in all one of the better martial arts action movies I have seen.SPOILERS follow, for my own recollection, quit reading, OK!?  The French police chief is corrupt, has one of the two prostitutes murder the China drug lord in his hotel room. The surveillance cameras capture the murder, and are stopped to hide the police involvement. However, one tape was not stopped in time, later Li breaks in and gets it, so most of the rest of the movie is the corrupt police chasing and trying to kill Li. Fonda gets into the picture because her 'station' is right outside the door to the Chinese shrimp chip business where Li is hiding out, she needs to use the restroom, her pimp finds her there, mistreats her, Li ends up fighting them off, having the business wrecked, his host dies in gunfire, he and Fonda are on the run. Funny scene, he comes upon a police martial arts training in a large room, has to go through them, perhaps 20 of them, a most excellent martial arts fight ensues, when the police finally break into the room, they see bodies of trainees littered all over the room. There is action on a boat on the river, in a tunnel, under a bridge. In the end Li encounters the bad French cop who shoots him in the arm, but Li pulls out one of many needles on his wrist band, from behind inserts one in the cop's neck, which paralyzes him. 'What did you do to me?' 'Highly illegal, this insertion is called 'The Kiss Of The Dragon', all the blood will flow to your head, when I remove it blood will flow out of your eyes and mouth and you will die.'  And he does.  "},{"Title":"Seen better and seen worse..","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hmm... Well... I dig Jet, have seen some of B. Fondas movies, and Tchéky Karyo who did a excellent role in Dobermann. The plot is in a way original, Jet comes to France, gets set up for killed a dude, and is trying to prove his innocence - Sounds good? Naaaah...I've seen better movies, and I've seen worse. There are some good whopping scenes there tho' (as in every Master Jet Li movie) - But here i was more disappointed than I wanted to be.== SpoilerS => The scene where the ninjas attack that boat where Jet is to get the tape that contains evidence that Jet didn't kill that dude, but Richard did. Honestly..But there was one scene that was pretty cool... When Jet enters the police-building to get the little girl back, and manages go get into the training room for martial arts. Heheh - Let the whopping begin! Fun to watch)All in all, the movie was ok - the only thing was fun here were the combat scenes and the power-seeking Richard.For this one I'll give Master Jet; 6/10 "},{"Title":"Great and fast action mayhem but not much else","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chris Nahon's debut feature film KISS OF THE DRAGON (France, 2001) stars the great Jet Li as Liu Jian, a Chinese police agent who is sent to France to help French police with the trapping of one major criminal. The French police chief Richard (Tchéky Karyo) leads the case but he turns out to be the kind of sick psychopath you could expect after his performance in Jan Kounen's DOBERMANN (1997) and he is even worse here. It is better not to know more about the plot because the fast pace will have some surprises, too, and I myself didn't know anything about the story before watching the film.The film is written by Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen and they have also done FIFTH ELEMENT (1997) together. This time Besson just writes and doesn't direct and that was fine chance for Nahon (born 1968) to prove his directorial skills which turn out to be pretty noteworthy at least in a film like this. The action choreographer is no less than the Hong Kong director/actor/choreographer Corey Yuen whose impressive credits in Hong Kong include SAVIOR OF THE SOUL (1992), WOMEN ON THE RUN (1993) and the cult favourite NINJA IN THE DRAGON'S DEN (1982). His action choreography in KISS OF THE DRAGON is truly wonderful and it is great he worked on this film because I don't think the film would be as striking as it's now without the help of this Hong Kong talent. Now the film is very close to the action miracles from Hong Kong and fortunately the film is French so none of the Hollywood restrictions had to be obeyed.The cinematography by Thierry Arbogast is great and there are many shots with crane and wild use of camera to create a feel of nonstop threat and speed the film has. There are very few slow moments and that means also that the characters never become too interesting, deep or personal but that is easily the case if the film wants to be nothing more than just wild action film, and KISS belongs exactly to that category. The editing by Marco Cavé is equally fantastic and they used a lot of pretty close and intense shots during the fights and that creates even madder and more claustrophobic feel to them (especially the climatic fights) and the fans of Hong Kong cinema may remember the insanity of Jackie Chan's DRUNKEN MASTER 2 (1994) while watching KISS OF THE DRAGON. Of course KISS never reaches the same level as DRUNKEN 2 (for example) but still it comes pretty close.Tchéky Karyo is very sick and dangerous as mentioned and his charisma is wonderful. Bridget Fonda overacts a little because of the pretty bad screenplay and his prostitute character isn't too believable and she doesn't seem like a real and suffered prostitute as her character was supposed to. She screams and acts nearly hysterically in a situations it is not expected, or then she may just turn from total despair into a rice eating seemingly happy girl just like that, without any explanation or development. Jet is incredible fighting machine and can act, too, but in this film really no one else than Karyo shines in the acting department. The film is mere action and rollercoaster ride and that doesn't require great characters. The ending is too traditional and almost clichee and that is also a very irritating thing and finally underlines the film's let's make a violent and fast action film in which good always wins and bad gets it status.I would have liked this film much more if it had even some point and deeper meaning than just the action and violent carnage. There is absolutely nothing this film wants to say or affect, it is just very simple plotted actioner succeeding in its own simple level very well. I can't appreciate this film as much as I wanted to and I'll give it 5/10 now. If Besson had directed this some 10 years ago, it would have been most likely a masterpiece on many levels. Now it is a masterpiece on action level only. "},{"Title":"Honor Rules!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I used to like Jet Li movies purely for the fighting, depicting a rare style and grace; not unlike the master, himself.  Li's characters often portray the martial arts code of honor very well.  Of course, his evil doppleganger in The One does not apply here.  I'm finding that I'm drawn more to his sense of honor that are the cornerstone of his characters; more than the fighting.  The action and fighting scenes haven't lost anything, but I think I'm seeing more of his honor code than I used to.  He has true style that reminds me of Bruce Lee.  His modest demeanor and silence until it's time to use lethal force... it's very refreshing.  You can tell he's in control from the second he walks on to the scene without any lame phrases or quirky little acts that are fine for other actors, but not a master.What worked  It was really cool and mesmerizing to see Brigette Fonda in this film.  She does messed up and screwed over really well; and one can actually feel her frustration and hopelessness.  A natural prelude to her trust and confidence in Li's character.  Of course Li's performance was a picture of style and prowess.SPOILER - SPOILER - SPOILER What didn't work  Unlike my usual inclinations, I actually wanted the cheesy to happen in this film.  I don't want to ruin any ending elements, but for once I wanted the two characters to find love... it definitely leaves that option out in the open.  Other than that I liked the film just fine.  There were some elements that were a little predictable, but it helped make me feel like I'm smart.8/10 - Overall, very good... not excellent.thank you "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid, stupid","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had high hopes for this film. I like Jet Li, love Bridget Fonda, and it was produced by Luc Beeson. Sounds like a sure fire hit, right? Wrong!The film is so over the top that it becomes unbelievable very quickly. The French bad guy, Richard, kills innocent civilians several times yet carries on as if nothing has happened. Bridget Fonda is more of a hinderance than a help to Jet Li, and her character is very degrading towards women. The background of Bert Kwouk's character is never explained, and neither is Jet Li's acupuncture skills which save his life more than once. And what was with the dead rabbit at the start of the film?Avoid, avoid, avoid. There are much better examples of Li's and Fonda's work available from their impressive back catalogue. I think that this one will be forgotten by all concerned. "},{"Title":"a joke plot wise, good action scenes","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is a mixed bag. Half the plot makes no sense and the other half is outright rediculous. That's apparent from begining to end. On the positive side the action scenes are good. This is hardcore, bloody fighting and shooting that aren't for the squimish, but it's fairly entertaining. The fight scenes are quite up there with Jackie Chan's Legend of the Drunken Master or some of Jet Li's earlier work, but fans of this should enjoy. I'm giving Kiss of the Dragon a 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Ok","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked Romeo Must Die.This is a ok movie with some great fight scenes.Bridget Fonda is great as a Hooker.the main Villain is the same guy from Bad Boys. Only the Finale Lacks the energy the rest of the movie has.Though one of the henchmen made me laugh cause he was in the original British Soap Crossroads.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good martial arts, but rest is not very believable.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was a little disappointed with this one.  I was hoping for a better plot and story line.  The story line of Kiss of the Dragon was predictable and not presented very well.  The martial arts were generally very good and only a few areas where the choreography was problematic.  This only occurred in the most complex scenes.  This is the only part of the film that kept it from getting a rating lower than 5 from me.  What really hurt the movie was the French inspector, Richard played by Tcheky Karyo.  I normally like the characters he plays but either he was not directed well or he just chose a bad script.  His character was not believable.  I don't care what country you are in, you are not going to be able to kill as many people in the open has he did and still be a cop!  You simply don't have that much power, especially in a western nation like France.  Your superiors will catch on and will remove you.  Some may say he could but not to this degree. I like Jet Li and was hoping for more with this film.  I am glad I waited until it came out of video.Overall, okay, but it has some significant problems (5 out of 10). "},{"Title":"A Breaktrough Film","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie immensely.  Jet Li really is the Master of martial arts.  As one who is interested in how the body moves, this movie is a must see.  He certainly has fine-tuned his skill and movements which make for an awesome film. This film will be a breakthrough for Jet and will promote martial arts, as well as acupuncture, everywhere in the world.  I also liked the story line in which Jet makes a promise and keeps it.  That is a message we all need to take to heart.  Good movie, great job and performance, great martial artist....what a treat for the audience!   "},{"Title":"I Enjoyed This Movie","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot is a little silly, but Kiss of the Dragon is a fun movie to watch. A lot of it is played tongue in cheek. The fight scenes are well staged and Jet Li even takes a few hits. I'd like to see Jackie Chan and Jet Li go at it on the wide screen. Doubt if that will ever happen. I gave the movie a 6 rating.   "},{"Title":"Bad, worse, worst and utterly boring","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought Romeo must die, Li's previous movie, was a poor scripted, poor acted, yet very entertaining movie. This one however, is worse scripted, worse acted and in fact not entertaining at all. We are to believe that in the whole of Paris, there isn't a single good cop to be found, and all go shooting around, killing innocent people and destroying entire hotel buildings along the way. And they can blame it all on Mr Li. Even in France people would not buy this!Add to that that the movie only shows Chinese and French people, and they all insist on talking English with the most preposterous accents heard this side of 'Allo 'allo.Oh, and it may be obvious that the entire FRENCH police corps uses Kung Fu in their crime fighting, of course. But in that, they're not that spectacular really, so the fighting scenes end up being pretty tame too.  "},{"Title":"Delivering","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsDon't even try to follow the plot in Jet Li's latest flick,for it is so contrieved and bears so little significance to anything,it's unbelievable.The acting's truly awful too.Li is his typical blank self,Bridget Fonda is the cliched action movie heroine and Tchecky (hopefully spelt right) Karyo is his routine mad French villain he kinda worked to better effect in Bad Boys.There is only one reason you should part with cash to see this flickthe martial arts.Li is phenomenal here,with some truly rousing one-on-ones that set the screen alight.Disengage brain and enjoy.*** "},{"Title":"Kiss This Film Goodsbye.","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kiss of the Dragon (2001) Dir Chris Nahon / Cast Jet Li, Bridget Fonda, Tcheky Karyo, Max Ryan, Ric Young Action film that uses violence to justify crime. Title regards a poisonous dart that Jet Li uses on attackers to paralyze and kill them. While undercover in Paris he witnesses a murder that he is framed for. His only alibi is a prostitute who is forced to take drugs and forbidden to see her daughter. Li takes pity on her and mops up the floor with dozens of faceless villains leading to a disgusting climax. Director Chris Nahon is basically filming a series of stupid fights that he could have gotten cheaper at a bar on drunk night. Li is there to fight and kick the living hell out of as many bad guys as possible. Perhaps he is going for the world record of most idiots beat up within the shortest time frame. Bridget Fonda is there to sink her career. It is obvious that she is attempting to distinguish herself from her acting family, which is fine, but this is not the film to do it and neither was Lake Placid or Monkey Bone. Tcheky Karyo plays the boring crooked investigator villain whose defeat isn't as satisfying as we are suppose to believe. Other roles are about as broad as any household appliances that get destroyed throughout this mindless junk. It is just justified revenge just for the thrill of exploiting violence. This film should be sliced and diced with a butcher knife. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"If You Love Kung Fu Fight Scenes...","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those guilty pleasure movies for me. Jet Li is a stranger in Paris, arriving to right some wrongs. The movie presents some wonderful fight scenes with Jet Li. I especially love the battles with the twins, two look-alike bodyguards.The beautiful Bridget Fonda, a truly underrated actress, stars as a woman who has been victimized and forced into prostitution. And though this movie came out in 2001, US police forces are just now receiving training to identify similar victims of sex slavery.The movie's title is referenced in almost the final scene but is well worth the wait. Gosh, it is fun! "},{"Title":"Brutal, Bone-Crushing, and Ultra-Violent...One of Jet Li's Best","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Martial Arts Movie for Action Fans with Jet Li in Hyperdrive and the Carnage Never Stops. This is Comic-Book Stuff with Our (Super) Hero Displaying Powers Absent in Mortal Men. It is All Ramped Up, Over the Top, Very Violent, and the Movie Takes No Prisoners.Luc Besson from Behind the Scenes Delivers, Along with His Superstar Jet Li, an Action Movie that Pulls No Punches and is a Ride-Along of Ridiculous Fight Scenes that are Always a Hoot for Fans of this Type of Stuff. There is Plenty of Bang for the Buck.The French Detective can go a Few Beats too Far Pushing His Subordinates Around and Bridget Fonda as the Human Anchor Whore with a Heart of Gold and a Cute as a Button Daughter in Tow, May be at Least One Beat too Good to be True, but there had to be Something to Pause the Mayhem. She Does, but Only a Brief Pause and We're Back to Kicking Ass.Overall, with Very Little Wire Work, Jet Li Fans can File Back in Lock Step, and Action Movie Adrenaline Types will have Very Little to Gripe About. It is Nonsensical, Bone Crushing, Bloodletting with its Heart Buried Beneath the Brutality, but it is Pumping the Pathos Enough to Allow Some Humanity to Contrast the Otherwise Inhuman Villains.No Compromises Here, this is One that Delivers what it is Selling in an Ultra-Stylistic Ballet of Blood, Bone Snapping, and Bullets and it is One of Jet Li's Best. "},{"Title":"A Fun Jet Li Action Flick","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jet Li faces off against the French police in this silly martial arts action flick, brought to us by Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen. The plot, where Jet Li's character, Chinese intelligence officer Liu Jian, is betrayed by Inspector Richard of the French police, who don't really operate like any police force I've ever seen... more like a mob of some sorts. They even have their own prostitution ring, and there don't seem to be any consequences for the innocent people that get caught in the crossfire of their gunfights. But Liu, whilst escaping the hotel where he's been framed for murdering a Chinese drug lord, manages to grab enough evidence to prove his innocence on a cassette tape. Richard wants that cassette, and he's willing to do anything to get it back and silence Liu. While that's going on, Liu also becomes acquainted with a prostitute played by Bridget Fonda named Jessica, whose daughter is held by Richard as a form of leverage.Well, the plot is stupid and makes no sense. In a city like Paris, no law enforcement agency would get away with the carnage Richard and his men dish out in their attempts to catch Liu, but that's besides the point. It's a silly, one man army action movie dedicated to Jet Li fans who wanted to see more realistic fight scenes, and that is what we fans get. It's violent and it's fun, and it's a satisfying actioner that requires suspension of disbelief.Suspend and enjoy, my friends. "}{"Title":"You have to see the kiss","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Can Jian protect Jessica, rescue her daughter, and give Richard the kiss of the dragon? Now, this is just about the stupidest question I have heard this year. Of course, Jet Li can do all that and more. There is no job too big for the super hero without super powers. As usual, there is more action in this film that you can comfortably enjoy in one sitting. You will need to come back over and over to enjoy it.Bridget Fonda (Jessica) hasn't done much lately. I remember her best from It Could Happen to You. She really performed in this film and added immensely to my enjoyment. Can Jian protect Jessica, rescue her daughter, and give Richard the kiss of the dragon? Get real! "},{"Title":"Maybe I've seen too many Jackie Chan movies","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Maybe I've seen too many Jackie Chan movies in which the point of the whole enterprise is to go and see Jackie do his Fred Estaire routines with chairs, ladders, steering wheels, refrigerators or just whatever is at his disposal. The plot of Chan's movies are disposable because we're there to see a stunt show.I went into 'Kiss of the Dragon' with that same spirit in mind and about 30 minutes in I started to notice that the movie added an element that I don't see in chop-socky movies a story that actually held my interest. Here is a movie that follows less the comic lines of Chan and more the stranger in a strange land feeling I got from Bruce Lee's movies. In fact the title may remind some of Lee's great 'Enter the Dragon'. 'Kiss of the Dragon' isn't in the same ballpark but it's in the car and headed in that direction.'Kiss of the Dragon' contains more or less all of the kickboxing, broken-glass action stunts that I have come to expect but what I liked most was when the movie quieted down and allowed the two lead characters to talk. I'm not saying that their dialogue contains any award-worthy depth but I was surprised to find such a dark, painful story in the midst of an action genre piece.The first 15 minutes are pretty standard, a Chinese cop named Liu (Jet Li) is undercover in Paris hoping to pull the lid off of a citywide drug trafficking operation. Naturally, this doesn't go as planned and he finds himself in the possession of vital evidence that could spell the end of Richard &#x96; the city's corrupt police chief (Tchéky Karyo) who runs the operation and his own prostitution ring. His evil doings are signaled almost as soon as we see him watching one of his henchmen beating a man half to death. Liu is deadly on his feet and is a master of the art of acupuncture and indeed he uses needles on his opponents to subdue and at one point kill them in gruesome ways.The title actually refers to the act of putting a needle in a certain part of the neck which will cause the bloodflow of the body to rise to the brain causing the victim to bleed from every orifice (now ask me if he gets a chance to use it). This is an art apparently so unknown to the French cop that when Liu is being frisked by the henchmen they fail to notice a wristband with the tiny needles in it as a threat.In the midst of this chaos we meet Jessica, one of Richard's hookers, whom he injects unwillingly with heroine and keeps under his thumb because he had kidnapped her young daughter. She comes in contact with Liu when she is working in front on his uncle's restaurant. I liked the early scenes between Liu and Jessica because he doesn't trust her because of her profession but with a little time and patience and dialogue he comes to pity her situation. It may seem to some that this is clichéd but where so many of these martial arts movies are just airballs this one had time for some dialogue, it's not great screen writing but I appreciate the effort.The fight scenes go along the same lines of inventive stuntwork and kick-choppy action scenes that I see in most martial arts movies. We know the pattern, but one marvels at it anyway. The movie did break down one cliché that I've been complaining about for years Most of the time in these fight scenes you have one man taking on twenty guys and they attack him one at a time but I noted that several times in this movie he takes on several adversaries at once.This story doesn't make a whole lot of sense when logic is applied, but since I was watching a movie that allows the actors to fight in a way the defied several known laws of gravity and physiology I was willing to go along with it. "},{"Title":"Movie with one actor only","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Action scenes galore, and superbly executed by Jet Li, who kills, seriously injures or knocks unconscious some 100 policemen in this picture. Finally he kills Insp. Richard (Tchéky Karyo) with the horrible Kiss of the Dragon acupuncture method whereby the paralysed Richard bleeds from every orifice before crashing dead to the floor. However, none of these characters has a clue about acting only Ms. Bridget Fonda is capable of it and she emotes plenty as the whore with a heart of gold. However, you wonder what on earth she was doing accepting a meaningless role in a plot less and drama-free movie such as this. Shortly afterwards, she drove her car off a cliff and then got married and quit show business. It's not surprising, is it... "},{"Title":"Well paced, good story. Amazing action, but sorely under rated.","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With writing credits such as Taken, The Fifth Element and Leon under his belt, you can be pretty sure that with Luc Besson's name attached to it; you're in pretty safe hands.Critics have been rather harsh on Director Chris Nahon's feature debut, but this really is worth a watch or seven.Let's start with the basic plot (however far fetched it may be)We're set in Paris with our Hero Liu Jian (who cares what his name is, we all know we'll refer to him by nothing other than Jet Li) who's come all the way from Beijing to help apprehend a notorious drug lord and his French asset. We learn quickly that the asset is the French Inspector that Jet Li is supposed to be there to help, and Jet is subsequently betrayed and marked for death. From here on we get what we came for First-rate martial arts kick-assness!!The action is what really makes this film worth watching. In most cases that would be a bad thing, making it an empty and pointless flick, with the action over the top and often boring. Here however, the action and violence (in abundance) is tastefully and creatively executed, whist being supported by a rather dark and character-driven story. As well as a fine performance from Bridget Fonda who does well with what little she's given in the way of a character. The villains are very cartoony, but this only adds to the fun of this movieIt has it's problems, but there's enough here to distract you and leave you thoroughly entertained. What more do you need in such a film? - Vinnie "},{"Title":"A passable plot with some amazing action sequences from Jet Li","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the good Jet Li movies that was made and produced for world wide audiences. Now the story to this isn't all that bad for a straight forward action movie. But the execution of it all just comes off plain ridiculous and over the top in a very unbelievable fashion. It seemed like the makers got together and mashed up things that would be cool to see Jet Li handle. Thus some of the action parts just comes off a bit random with some of the most incompetent bad guys. The story is simple a agent played by Jet Li gets framed by a inspector that is part of the police to feel more of his greedy wants. So Jet Li's character teams up with a prostitute played by Bridget Fonda to take down the bad guys with some martial arts and acupuncture skills. Like I said the story might be simple but it isn't awful and gets the job done. Just wish the direction and execution wouldn't have been so absurd. The corrupt inspector and his goons go around shooting up Paris without anything going wrong for them. The dialogue on the other hand is pretty bad to the point some audiences can't help but chuckle a bit at although it isn't trying to be funny. This is also the first movie I seen Cyril Raffaelli in and he does some cool acrobatic fighting in this against Jet Li. Overall this is a entertaining action popcorn flick that is worth seeing with some other friends or relatives that enjoy this type of genre.7/10 "},{"Title":"If you watch this for the plot, well you're here for the wrong reasons.","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Look the back of the KOTD DVD cover might sound the same as a million cheap martial arts B flicks Jet Li is a Chinese Secret Service agent, when sold out and betrayed by his French allies and framed for a crime he didn't commit he goes underground, only returning to clear his name and defend the honour of a poor unfortunate prostitute with a heart of gold whose daughter is being held hostage by the evil French Police Chief who terrorises them both.&#x85; and in reality it pretty much is the same. But KOTD is different, different in that it has no less than 5 scenes that could rightfully called classics. So rather than go through the standard *yawn* plot and say what a good guy Jet is and how hard done by Bridget Fonda is as the hooker, I'll explain why you REALLY NEED to see this movie if you are even a passing fan of martial arts flicks.Reason # 1 Jet &#x96; nicknamed Johnny in the film &#x96; objects to some nasty stuff the corrupt French cops are doing&#x85; they decide to kill and frame him in that order. The ensuing flight, pursuit and ongoing battle makes the film worthwhile and we're only 15 odd minutes in.With much more to come.Reason # 2 Now on the lam Johnny organises a secret rendezvouz with a friend and countryman to devise an escape plan. Obviously this goes awry and there is a desperate fight on a ferry that goes for a few minutes. A similar scene might be the highlight of many modern day martial arts films, in KOTD it is the least special.Reason # 3 Johnny is lying low while he recovers from the wounds sustained &#x96; so far. After standing up for Fonda's hooker character a sh*tstorm erupts when her pimp and associated nefarious dudes step in. The best part of this fight is a great standoff between Johnny and a towering muscular black guy, but the bit you'll remember most is how Johnny is able to finish the fight with a set of chopsticks.Reason # 4 That's three classic fights in one film, you still need more reasons?? OK then. Johnny embarks on a brief rescue mission, taking on two similar looking and equally formidable foes in the process. The fight is great and the concluding move especially cool, but this is merely a brief prelude to&#x85; Reason # 5 Johnny decides to stop all this running stuff and confronts his problem head on, by walking into the French Police HQ and taking down everyone &#x96; and I mean EVERYONE &#x96; in one scene he accidentally gatecrashes a martial arts training session and gives the students an impromptu lesson in just how far they all have to go&#x85; all at once.Reason # 6 While the Kiss of the Dragon element is a little hokey (not to be spoiled here), the implementation of the move itself is extremely memorable and immensely satisfying. While he doesn't get his own reason the lead bad guy &#x96; an over the top and incredibly shady cop named Richard &#x96; deserves everything that he gets, and he is easily one of the more reprehensible bad guys in recent cinema.Kiss of the Dragon was my first DVD purchase, bought months before I actually had a DVD player. Most martial arts films aim for one or two scenes that might warrant a classic description. This film has no less than 5.Final Rating &#x96; 9 / 10. Awesome stuff that makes me struggle with the reality that Jet Li decided that films like The One, Romeo Must Die and Cradle 2 the Grave were where he belonged. "},{"Title":"Awesome action trumps silly story","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie makes the interesting decision to tell you nothing about its story for at least the first 20 minutes, which is nothing but a bravura sequence of martial arts action that is highly enjoyable even though you have no idea what's going on. After that opening sequence the movie tells you more-or-less what's going on, but some plot points aren't explained in the slightest, most notably what exactly Bridget Fonda has to do with anything.This is one of those movies where dozens of people die without seeming to trigger any investigations; you can't imagine anything in this movie really going down the way it does. But the action is terrific, the bad guy is entertainingly, ridiculously evil (he does everything except kick a puppy) and over all I liked it. "},{"Title":"A Must For Fans of Action","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jet Li is my idol and this is one of my favourite films of his. He's superb as a Chinese cop sent to Paris to stop a drug deal going down, only to be betrayed by the people he was sent to help and framed for murder. Bridget Fonda is also good as the prostitute with a heart of gold. This was really the film that shot Jet Li's career up. Fans wanted more realistic fight scenes and that's what they got. We're treated to bone-breaking action throughout. The hotel fight and the climactic fight with the two blonde twins are the films highlights for me. Corey Yuen's choreography is a joy to behold but of course it's Li's skills that make them as good as they are. The sound design and cinematography is top notch too. Basically if you're a fan of action then you can't afford to miss this classic. I certainly didn't. For an even better film check out Li and Besson's second outing 'Danny The Dog' (aka 'Unleashed')****/***** "},{"Title":"Death By Chopsticks!","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kiss of the Dragon is quite a diverting action thriller while it's doing its thing on the screen, and it's only after the end credits roll that it occurs to you that it's all a bit, well, pants, really. Jet Li plays an undercover Chinese cop assigned to get the goods on a totally bonkers French cop involved in pimping and drug running and all manner of nasty things. One of the girls in his stable is young Bridget Fonda, who manages to convincingly look both sassy and sleazy, but whose character is a little too upbeat for a mother whose daughter has been kidnapped by the aforementioned bonkers cop. I don't know who the actor who plays the cop is, but he's also very good in a cartoon villain sort of way.Li and Fonda hook up thanks to a massive coincidence, and use an incriminating tape Li has of the cop to try and get her daughter back. The viewer's treated to lots of tourist shots of Paris as they do so, interspersed with some well-handled action set-pieces featuring typically well choreographed chop socky. The film is essentially one long chase movie &#x96; and there's nothing wrong with that &#x96; but you have to wonder why the cop would have returned Fonda's character to the streets when she has witnessed him carry out a murder, thus setting in motion the chain of events that result in the chase.Two more asides Fonda is way too good for material like this, which leaves you wondering why she hasn't had more success than she has. And secondly, it was really odd to see John Forgeham, who some people of a certain age will remember as the pot-bellied garage mechanic from the long-defunct British soap Crossroads, playing a ruthless transatlantic gangster. "},{"Title":"Jet Li's does it in France )","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the first mainstream pictures that Li made outside of his career in China. And boy of boy,if u are a fan of fast paced kicking and punching and incredible stunts then this the movie for u. The story is quite thin, but that is usually the catch with this kind of movies. But the supporting roles are superbly performed by Mira Sorvino and Tcheky Karyo. Also nice to see was the cameo of Kato (u know the sidekick of Peter Seller's Clouseau) and a young french stuntman called Cyril Rafaelli (or something like that) who plays the little small fast kicking and flying twin. He is awesome in this movie and if u want to see more of him in action. I would highly recommend getting District-13, there he is the co-lead and u can really see what this guy can actually do. Anyway this movie is highly entertaining, but a word of warning tho, it is not for the fainthearted as there are some very brutal scenes in there. "}{"Title":"French beating","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well... the French sure don't have it easy... In American movies they gt beat on. Heck even in French Luc Besson movies they get beat on. By the Chinese at that.Movie must fit in well with Chinese propaganda, but it seems they have learnt from the best - the Americans.Jet Li is brilliant, fight scenes are always intriguing, albeit a bit too bloody for my liking. Acting wise everything is decent, even if Jet Li really shouldn't play in movies where he speaks English. Supporting cast suffices and sparring partners for Li are good and sometimes even great.The script does a decent job and even ventures into very touchy subject matters, as prostitution. Not that there is anything deep in the movie, but still kudos for not holding back. The premise for the bad French cop is over-the-top and most of the movie lacks realism as to the portrayal of French justice... but hell... in the end it's all about Jet Li with no strings attached kicking bu!!. In this regard the movie definitely delivers. "},{"Title":"Jet Li Is Unstoppable, but, not Untouchable","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The chemistry between Bridget Fonda and Jet Li in this film was perfect.Jet Li portrays the noble, lonely modern day warrior perfectly, while Bridget Fonda is utterly believable as the emotionally wounded and vulnerable working girl. The first meeting of the two is full of awkwardness on both sides, that kind of clumsiness that only arises from mutual attraction and the perceived need to resist it. Jet Li presents the shy timidity of a well-raised Chinese man in the presence of an attractive (and taller) white woman initially and retains that polite distance throughout the movie, though it takes on shades of greater intimacy during the course of the 2 days they spend together (though never to unrealistic excess). Here you have two people who desperately need a human connection to find meaning and purpose in life. They find each other.One exchange of dialogue in particular emphasizes this point Jessica  I don't trust them. I trusted you. For the first time in-- God, I don't know, forever-- I don't know why I trust someone. You promised you'd take care of her. (Jessica's daughter)Liu Jian  Yes. (Liu is still the polite and soft-spoken Chinese warrior who is not given to long speeches, but he proceeds to go on a one-man tour of force through an entire police station to save Jessica's daughter,and it is not overdone or ridiculous. he does it because he has connected with Jessica on a human level, he cares for her, and wants to help her)I find it amazing, that with the relatively short length of the movie, the connection between Liu Jian and Jessica is wholly believable, a testament to a sensitivity on the part of the writer, the director, and both Bridget and Jet.ONE HUMAN GESTURE FROM THE BAD GUYThis is a feature which always elevates a film for me. The black and white simplicity of good guy / bad guy is never genuinely satisfying. Richard, the corrupt French Inspector, takes a moment to gently caress the head of one of his fallen subordinates in an act of companionably farewell, upon finding him dead from the attack of Jet Li. I was very happy to see this scene. It made Richard a little bit more than a cardboard cut-out character. One of the main reasons I like Japanese Anime so much is that it is extremely prevalent for the antagonists to be complex, and, very human, characters. As a species, humanity needs to evolve beyond thinking of one another in the simplistic terms of good and evil. Such is never the case. Everyone has reasons for their behavior. One man's villain is another man's hero.TRANSCENDING CULTURAL BARRIERSJessica  Any interest in an ex-junkie hooker... who can cook, clean, sew and who likes Chinese food?An attractive tall white girl can fall for a shorter reserved Chinese guy. A white girl can show a great deal of compassion for the death of an old Chinese man (the Chef whom Jet was staying with). FROM SOLITARY PATRIOTIC SOLDIER TO A HUMANE HEROThe evolution of Jet Li's character in the course of the 2 days of the film is remarkable, yet wholly believable.Jet Li's performance never leaves a moments doubt that he is a tremendously potent one-man army, but, that he is a sensitive human being as well, who longs to connect with someone, to have someone to care about and protect (even though he was not even aware of that need).CLOSING SCENEThe closing scene is wholly touching, when Bridget holds Jet's hand in a vulnerable, heartfelt gesture of total gratitude at saving her daughter's life, while Jet looks back somewhat shyly, but grateful to her as well for awakening such feelings in him. sniff. sniff.  ' ) Beautiful. Such a moment brings me further hope that humanity is nearing the stage where we will be able to live together in peace and harmony. Action is great, but, not at the cost of violence and suffering. "},{"Title":"This Dragon Delivers High Kicking Action!","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Asian action star Jet Li kicks a whole lot more butt in freshman director Chris Nahon's Kiss of the Dragon than he did in last year's hip-hop flavored Romeo Must Die. This relentlessly violent but hugely entertaining European crime thriller boasts one of the cinema's most psychotic bad guy cops since Harvey Keitel's depraved detective in director Abel Ferrara's NC-17 rated shoot'em up Bad Lieutenant (1992) about a substance abusing N.Y.P.D. officer on a Catholic guilt trip. As corrupt French Police Inspector Jean-Pierre Richard, actor Tchéky Karyo of Wing Commander guns down anybody innocent or evil who gets in his way as a good squad of trigger-happy henchmen and he pursue the impervious as well as elusive Jet Li protagonist through Paris. Caught up in this melodramatic mayhem is a reluctant prostitute, Jessica Kamen (Peter Fonda's daughter Bridget of Point of No Return) who turns tricks for Richard in hopes he will eventually release her daughter who he has held hostage for over a year.Writer/producer Luc Besson of The Fifth Element and co-scribe Robert Mark Kamen contrived this formulaic but straightforward, shoot-first, ask questions afterward actioneer from a story by Jet Li. Primarily, Kiss of the Dragon recalls Jackie Chan's frantic, fish-out-of-water chop-socky comedies such as First Strike where the hero gets double-crossed and goes on the dodge until he can prove his innocence. The chief difference in Kiss of the Dragon is everybody plays for keeps, and comedy is conspicuously avoided. Highly decorated Bejing Police Inspector Liu Juan (Jet Li of Unleashed) flies into the City of Lights to help the authorities bust a Golden Triangle heroin smuggling ring run by Mr. Big (Ric Young of The Corrupter) who&#151;it turns out&#151;is in cahoots with Inspector Richard. Not only does Richard murder Mr. Big and the streetwalker with him, but he also uses Liu Juan's police pistol to kill them! Consequently, Liu finds himself framed for murders that he didn't commit in a foreign country with every gendarme breathing down his neck. The only person who can exonerate Liu is streetwalking Jessica. She was in the hotel suite when Richard iced her prostitute pal and Mr. Big. Essentially, Jessica's half-hearted hooker recalls Tea Leoni's character in director Michael Bay's Bad Boys who wound up in the wrong place at the wrong time.As a five-time martial arts champion in China, Jet Li resembles a pint-sized Romeo. Unlike his big-screen competition, Li can act as well as fight. Director Chris Nahon emphasizes his hero's vulnerability, and he never lets him off the hook. Incomparable action director Cory Yuen of Lethal Weapon IV has orchestrated several ballistic, karate-chopping, bone-crunching battle royals that would make Bruce Lee flinch in his grave. Happily, these kinetic fisticuffs have been staged with out wires or gimmicky computer generated effects. Watching Jet Li's David-sized protagonist demolish an army of Goliaths, especially two gigantic, bleach-blond thugs is a blast! When Liu isn't tangling with crooked cops, he agrees to rescue Jessica's daughter in an obligatory subplot modified from Besson's own epic The Professional with Jean Reno and Natalie Portman.Although it definitely surpasses Romeo Must Die, Kiss of the Dragon lags behind Jet Li's more imaginative, high-octane Hong Kong action opuses such as The Enforcer and The Defender. Nevertheless, die-hard Jet Li fans will enjoy this thriller. "},{"Title":"I don't sell shrimp chips.","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Liu Jian (Jet Li) is a Chinese policeman sent to France to help with the apprehension of big-time Chinese drug lord. But Jian is quickly double-crossed and finds himself on the run having been accused of murder. The one person who may be able to help him is a drug-addicted prostitute whose child is being held hostage by the same man who set-up Jian - and he's a high-ranking French policeman. Jian and the prostitute make for an unlikely pair, but they'll have to work together to make things right.As an action movie, Kiss of the Dragon gets several things right. Both Jet Li and Bridget Fonda are more than capable of pulling off this kind of movie. Li, in particular, is exceptionally good showing the moves that have made him an internationally acclaimed martial arts star. He does a lot of different moves in the movie but my particular favorite is a quick one involving a pool ball that he sends flying with a well placed foot. Unfortunately, beyond the two stars and a wickedly evil performance by Tchéky Karyo, the rest of the movie is pretty average. It's one action/martial arts cliché after then next with the child being held hostage the icing on the cake. The only action standard the movie fails to include is letting the male and female leads fall in love with each other. And I'm glad because that would have really ruined the movie. As it is, Kiss of the Dragon is a harmless enough time waster that may lack creativity, but benefits from the presence of Jet Li. "},{"Title":"A top notch martial arts action flick.","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kiss of the Dragon is set in Paris & starts as Chinese super cop Liu Jian (Jet Li) is sent by his superiors to oversee the surveillance & capture of a big Chinese drug lord with the relevant French authorities & in particular Inspector Richard (Tcheky Karyo) who is in charge of the operation. The bust is due to go down in a classy Paris hotel but the plan goes wrong & the drug lord is killed by Inspector Richard who then plants Jian's gun at the scene implicating him for the murder, Jian manages to escape with an incriminating videotape that show's Richard shooting the drug lord & uses his secret contact to hide as the entire French police force searches for him. Jian has to find a way to prove his innocence, clear his name & stay alive as both the good & bad guy's want him dead...This French American co-production was directed by Chris Nahon & one has to say that I think Kiss of the Dragon is a fantastic top-notch action packed martial arts fight fest that will surely please anyone interested in either genre. The script by Luc Besson & Robert Mark Kamen takes itself very seriously & gets going straight away with a twenty plus minute opening sequence set in a posh Paris hotel involving assassinations, explosions, good looking prostitutes, stunts, twin chrome plated sub machine guns, fights, martial arts, shoot outs & kicking a snooker ball into someones face & it barely lets up for the rest of it's 100 odd minute duration. Hey, I guess I'm just easily pleased. There are lots of fights, stunts & action set-pieces but the story here is also pretty good. OK it's nothing original with some innocent guy framed for a murder who then has to go out, kick a load of ass & prove his innocence but it's very enjoyable with stronger than usual character's & some good dialogue that doesn't try to cram a cheesy one-liner in there every few seconds. The sentimental stuff didn't exactly have me in tears but the emotional issues of the character's did actually have some impact on me so I guess I did feel for them a little bit. Of course it's not perfect by any stretch of the imagination, for instance the chance meeting between Jet Li who is hiding out in a shop & Bridget Fonda's prostitute who is soliciting outside both of whom having been involved in the drug dealers murder the previous night is one hell of a coincidence & fairly difficult to swallow, I'm not being funny here but Paris is a big place you know & the odds of the two miraculously meeting each other again are statistically slim to say the least. Also why is Inspector Richard so attached to Jessica? As a prostitute she admits to Jian that she is lucky to see five punters a week & that isn't exactly going to make Richard rich is it? I just don't get the connection or understand the ties between a lowly American prostitute & a corrupt high ranking police official who has great power & influence. Anyway, films like Kiss of the Dragon are better if you don't think too hard about the character's or plot & just sit back & enjoy the spectacular action scenes & good looking girls.Director Nahon does a nice job here & the film looks good throughout with decent use of some Paris locations although unusually the Eiffel tower isn't anywhere to be seen even if the tunnel where Princess Diana died in a car crash is. There are some interesting facts on the IMDb's 'Trivia' page for Kiss of the Dragon which maybe go someway to explaining why the film looks so good. The fights are very brutal & minimalistic, there's not too much cool posing or posturing here & the participants get on with it using whatever they have at hand as weapons like irons, frying pans, snooker balls & chop sticks. Apparently only two scenes used CGI computer effects work, the laundry chute sequence & Jet Li kicking the snooker ball while there was only two uses of wire work in the film, the snooker ball part again & a somersault back-flip move performed at the end by one of the bad twins. I think the lack of wire work & CGI really helps make Kiss of the Dragon look great, look realistic & give it some authenticity & credibility. Just my opinion though. Most of the fights are violent & lots of people of die so this is a pretty hard edged action film.With a supposed budget of about $25,000,000 Kiss of the Dragon is extremely well made with good production values, great stunts & fight choreography & a really nice sleek visual look to it as well. Shot on location in Paris in France. The acting is pretty good, Jet Li is fine, Tcheky Karyo seems to have modelled his bad guy on Alan Rickman from the original Die Hard (1988) while Briget Fonda looks cute in an obscenely short mini skirt & thigh high boots.Kiss of the Dragon is a great action film with some fantastic martial arts fight sequences & it's as simple & straight forward as that really. I mean all you really want from a film like this is a good bad guy to hate, a likable good guy to root for & lots of over-the-top action, right? I think for most people the story will come second & while it isn't too bad in it's own right it's not Kiss of the Dragon's strongest point whereas it's action is. "},{"Title":"Just not what it's praised to be !","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes, I love Jet Li. Yes, I love Action/Adventure/Crime/Thriller movies and other genres. No, I don't like films that have next-to-no explanation for why the villains are evil or uninteresting characters. The film is the standard innocent person getting set-up for some crime he knows he did not commit type and I'm okay with movies that are just a non-stop adrenaline rush, but this film falls stale due to constant slow scenes where the bad guys and good guys are talking, but yet the viewer honestly could care less because the plot is of no interest. The newbie director Chris Nahon does good with what material he is giving having previously directed French music-videos and Luc Besson writes a dull script while being the producer. The actors are all French and/or Asian with the exception of Bridget Fonda, who plays a prostitute who is extremely annoying and just takes up space. Jet Li is getting better at both his English and his acting and is, i believe also, a producer of this beautifully-done crap, which he stated in interviews, that he believed was truly well-done. Sadly, I personally found little entertainment value in this French thriller, but I would recommend the better Luc Besson-Jet Li film, Danny the Dog ( Unleashed ) because it was an improvement on this film and actually had good acting and stunt work. See it on T.V. and if you have to absolutely see it for whatever reason, but if you have kids, send them out of the room because even on basic U.S. cable where they edit movies, it is still pretty mature for kids/teenagers. "},{"Title":"Martial arts action done right","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had heard somewhat of Jet Li before I saw this film. It was the first Jet Li movie I saw, and it immediately made me a huge Jet Li fan. Finally martial arts action is given due justice in modern Hollywood movies.The story is nothing fancy. Jet is a top Chinese agent sent to France to help a chief French police inspector nail a Chinese smuggler bringing drugs into France. The police chief turns out to be corrupt, and kills the drug smuggler. Then he frames Jet for it. When Jet escapes he tries to prove his innocence, and enlists the aid of Bridget Fonda, an enslaved prostitute working in a circle associated with the police chief. In return for her help, he vows to rescue her daughter, who was wrongly taken away. Nothing too special, but it's carried out very well. Bridget Fonda acts her part well, as does Jet Li (amazing since he's not really an actor, but a pure action star.) Now for the good part, the action. I'll be clear, I do not like pointless use of wires in action movies when it is not required for the story. Thats what I love most of all about this movie. Only a couple wires and CGI effects were used for the whole film. There are several fight scenes, all very nicely choreographed. Jet Li is simply amazing. He is very swift and brutal. He uses his environment to his advantage when he fights in this movie. His fighting style is ground-based, harsh, and brutal with an occasional fancy move to show his ability. I loved the fight with the 20 martial artists. Jet Li really showed off his speed and talent with sticks in that scene. There is also a scene where Jet has to take on a big, muscular boxer. I love seeing small martial artists take on giants. The climax fight with the two twins was a little short, but very good. One of my favorite final fights of all time. I later found out during the filming of that fight, both Jet and the little twin were asked to slow down so the camera could catch their action.I highly recommend this film to Jet Li fans and martial arts fans that are sick of wires. Let Jet dazzle you in this film with his own speed and talent, not that of special effects.I give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"A brilliantly constructed, modern martial arts film!","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kiss of the Dragon is an original and refreshing martial arts film. Unlike the typical martial arts films that have become apparent (Martial arts tournaments, or people fighting to save the world) Kiss of the Dragon presents a solid plot that does not get blown out of proportion Liu Jian (a Chinese government agent)arrives in Paris in assistance to the French police. He is betrayed by the governing body of the French police, but holds valuable information that could prove to be incredibly harmful to this crooked policeman and his criminal operations. In attack, the French policeman is out on a mission to have Jian killed. Jian quickly finds his allies dying, and becomes dependent on the help of Jessica ( a prostitute working for the French policeman.) Jian must complete his mission, attempt to leave Paris alive, whilst keeping Jessica alive... The Characters are clearly defined and interact very well together. The dialogue is very effective, suitable to each character and to the point. But above all, my most favourite aspect of this film is the choreography. The Choreography is superb, a combination of martial-arts mingled with street-fighting. This neatly complements Jet Li's role as a secret agent. In my opinion, Martial arts films have become to similar over the years. The Choreography is relatively the same Spinning back kicks, flying side-kicks, and somersaults. All very fancy- not very practical. Jet Li and Cory Yuen have bought it back down to reality, short snappy punches and fast kicks with impact on every technique. I would strongly recommend this film for anyone who enjoys, thrilling martial-arts films and a fast-paced storyline. In my opinion this film has set a new level for Martial arts cinema The successful combination of street-style fighting blended with Martial arts, reality based locations, and a complementing storyline. In comparison to the past Martial-arts films, such as the typical Steven Segal or Jean Claude Van Damme, I couldn't award this film anything less than 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Fun little action movie","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although I'm not quite sure if I should call it little? I mean it's written by Luc Besson out of all people! And the actors in it ... were should I begin?Jet Li, remarkable and one of a kind. He is the serious martial artist in contrast to Jackie Chan, who's more the funny martial artist. And that's not a judgement, just the facts. It's up to you to decide what you like more or if you like them both! He also has charisma (JC too, but it's a Jet Li movie, so I'm only going to write about him). Jet Li also knows his Martial Arts! He's supported by great actors, Tchéky Karyo & Bridget Fonda.The story is fleshed enough for an action movie, but surely nothing special. It keeps you anticipating what will come next, especially action wise ... "},{"Title":"One of the best movies he has","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was my first movie with Jet Li I saw. It is now one of my favorite movies that I own.This movie is about a Chinese Intelligence officer (Li) who goes to France with the help from the local police to get a Chinese guy who has been smuggling drugs. The Chinese guy is killed by the corrupt french detective Richard and tries to track Li down to get the tape of the murder back.When I was going to see this movie, I wasn't expecting much. I didn't know anything about Jet Li and I thought Jackie Chan was the greatest fighter ever. Then I saw the realistic fighting/no humor fighting which used plenty of martial art movies. It has a good plot and awesome mainly no wire fighting (except for 2 or three attacks). Tis is what made Jet Li my favorite actor and my favorite martial artist. "}{"Title":"Story? Plot? Sceenary? No need, You'll enjoy every second anyway.","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Forget the story, forget the plot, and forget the scenery. This movie is about action and you can't find a dull moment. Even if you could find a dull moment depending on you'r point of view you'll accept it because this movie just sweeps you away. This movie is one of the best that Jet Li ever has stared in. It's a rather simple story. A secret agent is sent to handle a potential embarrassment in a foreign country, in this case France, but all is not what it seems to be. If you are an action freak, this is for you. If you ever wonder if traditional Chinese medicine is something to consider this is the way needles shouldn't be used. No need to say any more, just enjoy. "},{"Title":"Kiss of the Dragon","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a story by the main star, and produced by him, this is just as good as a Bruce Lee of Jackie Chan film. Jet Li plays Liu Jian, a cop who is framed for murder by drug dealer Richard (Tchéky Karyo). The only things that can help clear his name are a tape he stole, and the prostitute who was there, Jessica (Jackie Brown's Bridget Fonda, Peter's daughter and Jane's niece). This film does have many exciting chase and simple talk scenes, but it's obviously the kung fu fighting that gets me excited and keeps my eyes open. Also starring Max Ryan as Lupo, Ric Young as Mister Big and Pink Panther's Burt Kwouk as Uncle Tai. By the way, the reason for the title is when Jet defeats the villain by stabbing him with a small needle of special venom which takes all your blood to the top of his head, until he bleeds out of his eyes, ear nose and mouth, and dies. Very good! "},{"Title":"Gives you exactly what you can expect from luc besson and Jet Li.","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Lets face it any one who watches a movie featuring Luc besson and/or Jet Li watches it for constant thrill a minute action with a little bit of humour and some emotional moments (courtesy luc besson). No fan of either expects an epical action movie spanning over three hours and thousands of extras.Keeping this in mind this movie is copy perfect movie from both the stars, lots of kung fu action, the usual drama involving the missfit of society with the slightest hint of love, this movie is signature work from both.The rest of the cast plays their part Bridget Fonda looks lovely and carries of the role as ex-junkie hooker, with a child with an innocence that is quite endearing.Tchéky Karyo who has proved himself as a brilliant actor maintains his high standards. The character artists are also again quite perfect which reminds me-although its hard to logically so many people doing Kung Fu in France Luc Besson has a brilliant scene in the film that justifies so many of the people knowing kung fu and also why the twin hit men did. This particular scene was also quite a lovable scene and another signaturish scene in the movie.The Only Things thats going against the movie is the lack of a REALLY big action scene (something that we come to expect from luc) and the fact that Jet Li has not yet come around to playing his age (come on man if you look the age then play it, there is no reason you cannot be a action star who looks 35-40 p.s there is no hint of him acting young in this movie but its something occurred to me).All in all a movie thats gives you exactly what you expect, short and sweet, a must watch for fans of luc and jet. "},{"Title":"A superb athlete and a good film all round","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like Jet Li!! Lets be honest Bruce lee paved the way but Jet Li is his own man and quite refreshingly in this case, Jet Li wrote the story that was made into this film. Basically Jet plays a Chinese Cop who travels to Paris France in order to assist the French Police with a case. Unknowing to him the French cop in charge appears to have his own agenda plus a substantial amount of thugs under his charge. The object of the police observations is killed by this policeman with Jet taking the blame. Thus the scene is set for Jet to dodge the police and the thugs while trying to clear his name.Bridgitte Fonda is a great actress - she plays a reluctant prostitute who is meant to show the victim a good time. She cannot do this and is in the bathroom when the victim is killed. It then turns out that she is linked to the killer policeman because he is her pimp and he also has her daughter.Jet Li and Bridgitte Fonda eventually team up in an effort to clear his name and rescue her daughter. I marvelled at Jet's athleticism and martial arts prowess and to me all the fight scenes were realistic. He did not emerge from these without a scratch. And surprisingly I cried twice.There are genuinely touching moments especially at the end. This is a good movie and one that I am very very happy to have in my DVD collection. "},{"Title":"One for the undemanding action film fan.","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In Kiss of the Dragon, Jet plays a Chinese cop in Paris, who is framed for the murder of a businessman. When the tape proving his innocence is seized, he must enlist the help of a hooker (Bridget Fonda), who was at the scene of the crime.From the moment Jet Li accidentally walks into a room of black-belts and proceeds to stick fight his way out in spectacular fashion, this movie is non-stop blistering top-notch action.It's a shame, though, that this scene occurs one hour and twenty minutes into the film, and what precedes it is a rather tedious, unoriginal and predictable mish-mash of action movie clichés.Jet Li co-wrote Kiss of the Dragon with producer Luc Besson, which only goes to show that he can't write as well as he can fight. "},{"Title":"Dragons kiss exciting but only just......","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kiss of the Dragon is a frustrating film at times as with a bit of polish on the script and a more confident direction this could have been a classic. Unfortunately what could have been an interesting movie degenerates into a series of wild coincidences and half baked clichés.Although this is sold as a thriller in many ways it harks back to the 80's action genre with a bad guy who shoots as many of his own men as he does the enemy. Also just how does a French cop get away with shooting other cops and civilians in broad daylight ? The fight choreography is fairly good but not quite up there with Li's best but there are some entertaining fights. It's during the end fight that the Director seems to change his mind, where before the soundtrack had been orchestral for the most part we get an outbreak of rap along the lines of Li's films with DMX. This really jars with the feel of the rest of the movie as maybe it's just me but the editing changes slightly too for the final fight with a lot more blurred motion shots and in my opinion to many cuts. But if you overlook the rough script, wild coincidences and underdeveloped characters there is some entertaining action. If your a real action film fan it's probably worth a rental or catching on cable.With Luc Besson involves in the script and one of the worlds best martial arts movie stars this should have been better 5/10 "},{"Title":"Well cast and well fought fight flick with something special.","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" You are reading this because you like fight films, no doubt, and you will be happy with Kiss of the Dragon. Watch it. As good as Jet Li is at holding up his end, Bridget Fonda shines brightly as a low-end hooker which does not sound promising. Amidst all the guy talk, guns and fist fights, Bridget carries her story moment by moment without dead air. It's curious. The role is not especially rich, but it is big. On paper it must reek of cliché, but you would not know it. Hair, costume, and makeup are commendable and seem as sleazy as they must be, but actor and director do not play to the sleaze. This is not the Pretty Woman fantasy hooker. How could she carry dignity as a failed hooker? It's interesting. Bridget let's her character succeed at failing. The real story is about something else anyway that makes her situation desperate, but you don't see desperate. As most writers position their characters to be in such situations, actors get sucked into playing the desperation. Bridget does not play desperate. She plays someone trying very, very hard not to appear and not to feel desperate. As a hooker, she needs to be attractive in the hookerish' fashion, but she just can't seem to succeed in that role in life. Being a failure as a hooker ends up being very attractive for a desperate mother as long as it's all well acted. I remembered a discussion I once had about Marlan Brando dying in the GodFather trilogy. Most actors would die. That's what the text says happens, but Marlan's Godfather fought to stay on his feet, to stay alive. He pulled the tomato plants down trying to stay up. Bridget's Jessica seems out of place as a hooker, yet believable as mother who has to focus, who has to be present, and honest and courageous. In the end she is as amazing as Jet Li which says a lot. He had all the amazing fights, smashing, head busting action scenes as the title and genre promise. Together they feel just right. You can't help but love her and root for her, too, even though she is B story, or is she? "},{"Title":"Like the best is the rest","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" You will enjoy this movie from the beginning to the end even tough it has flaws . It's complicated yet funny and entertaining ..gathering what we fear with what we love and in the end mixing it all together.Even if i didn't knew nothing about the movie and i would have watched it from scrap..i would have recognized Luc Besson's hand. and it's nice to know that Li is playing amongst other(fighting) things.The actors in this movie could have done better but in a way i was not expecting theater but entertainment with style ..so..i got it!Please don't look at this movie if you believe martial arts are crap and action flicks are over. "},{"Title":"Jet Li's splendid European/American debut","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I must say this was a very good film, despite what the critics and online reviews have said. It contains all the elements required for a great film, it has a very good plot and very good action combined with a wide range of different characters that are equally developed through the course of the film. Jet Li proved his validity on screen with great action and good acting. Tcheky Karyo that french cop is a terrific actor, wonderfully complex and stubborn, and Jessica (Bridget Fonda)was also very well in her skin, they were all the perfect roles for each other.The Story is basically that Liu Jiuan (aka Johnny)(Jet Li), one of China's top government agents comes to Paris from Shanghai to assist Richard (Karyo, who is in fact a highly corrupt french police inspector, with many men by his side. The original mission was to uncover an international drugs conspiracy, which goes horribly wrong as the man Li came to help betrays him. Here the mission changes as Li managed after a fantastic action sequence to escape, now Li's mission is to bring Richard and his accomplices to justice (as he has proof from CCTV cameras) and Richards aim is to eradicate him along with the proof. Now Accused of a murder he didn't commit, Li befriends in a charming fashion an American women (Fonda) who was forced to prostitution by Richard. They go up against their cunning, ruthless enemy Richard through a promise they made each other, which could compromise everything.This may sound complicated, but in reality it is far more simple then this, when you see the use of all the props to illustrate some points. Overall this is a must see film for anybody that likes great thrillers (one of the best I've seen) and action films, combined with drama and a great story line. And of course a bit of martial arts, a come back from Jet Li, no wire work, almost no special effects at all, unlike The One, which was sincerely horrible in comparisonOn the whole it is worth 9/10, probably more if they kept the original mission in mind simultaneously, but that would have been difficult. "},{"Title":"Don't Blink...","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Kiss of the Dragon is a typical karate movie, but to me it is a step above the rest. How can you put all fighting movies in an order of greatness, the fact of the matter is you can't. Some will love this film over all others, some will think it's decent, or even horrendous. But set aside all the great fighting scenes, you really do have a good movie.If you are one of those people who feel that The One is an awesome movie, and can't be topped, then you haven't seen this movie yet. Kiss of the Dragon is The One on steroids more action but not well received. The specifics in the fighting scenes seem more intense than any other movie, such as the twins, the pool ball, and defending the prostitute. The basis around acupuncture, put together with a great plot, and you get a better movie than The One.10 out of 10. It's the movie u can't afford to miss if you love action. "}{"Title":"Very Violent,Very  Good","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jet Li is a favorite with martial arts lovers worldwide,and this offering of his will not fail to satisfy them.The plot is not original-Li is a Chinese inspector in Paris to help the French police arrest a Chinese criminal,but ends up being in the line of fire himself. What makes the film special is Bridget Fonda's role.She plays a prostitute who teams up with Li to identify and catch the real villain,Tcheky Karyo who plays the chief of police in Paris.The bond of trust that develops between the two is very absorbing to watch,and looks convincing.However,the fight scenes deserve mention.They are very original and ultra-violent.The scene with Li and the  Twin is perhaps the most violent I have ever seen Jet Li do on-screen.A very good film . "},{"Title":"Kiss of the Dragon Love, Martial Arts Style","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A disarming (no pun intended) love story with appealing underlying themes with high ideals. Li's contribution to the screenplay provides an engaging contribution to the progression of emotions with Ms. Fonda's character. Li's oriental flavor, which does not require the western rhetoric, pulls us in after indifference becomes pity, and commitment enters caring. A Chinese policeman's ideals are like our childhood memories of a boy scout, and Li plays the eagle scout to the max trustworthy, brave, reverent...and of course he is always good to his word, Fonda ...but...you promised. LiYes...I did. Karyo, who I first so loved in La Femme Nikita, is excellent as a sadistic power monger, especially with those dying words, Kiss my ... Well...you know. I love the Karyo's recurring Johnny Boy, which Li appropriately showed to irritate him as I am sure it irritated many of Asian descent. I love the music, the pace of the film and it's emotional ending. It's a shame that the average ratings reflect those not looking to find a good love story, but more action. They missed an excellent film. "},{"Title":"The beginning of the new king in martial arts","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jet has been in some good movies before but nothing like this one. The story or justification for the action is so so. Where the movie shines is the chemistry between the two leads and especially the action.Not since Bruce Lee have a seen the combination of great martial arts and for want of a better description a COOL lead. The action early on in the hotel, in the shop, on the boat and at the end is as good as any I have ever seen. Some of Jets films are poor choices 'The One' being a good example, but with this he has really made his mark. I haven't seen Hero yet but if its anywhere near as good as this its a classic. 10/10 One of the best martial arts films ever. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li was moving back in the direction of one day becoming a Bruce Lee-type coolness.  Now, i'm not comparing him to Bruce Lee now - i'm saying, one day, Jet Li might be at that level.  He at least seems in the right direction here.There were some mistakes he made earlier, but this film is alright.  I especially liked the part where he totally kicked the billiard ball into this dude's head.  They should make a quirky short independent film about a karate master that fights only by kicking billiard balls into people's heads. "},{"Title":"Excellent directed","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Chris Nahon did an excellent job by creating excellent action scenes. The opening part was impressive because the assault on Jet Li could begin every moment.Bridget Fonda performed less on the prostitute role but the humor makes it acceptable.A must-see movie for every martial-art adept. "},{"Title":"Oh my goodness!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now not many martial arts films get 10/10 but this was something else. Only the second of his films I've seen but it's way better than the other (I forget what that one was). For this kind of film I fail to see what else they could have done to make it any better. Villains were developed beautifully so by the time they saw thier demise you'd really learned to hate them. Pretty typical in that aspect but everything was original. Superb choreogarphy (or however you spell it) and I particularly like the acupuncture.....you'll see!!For what it is, I have seen no better film. This thriller is packed with action and excitement and will have you amazed regularly.Oh yeah, and I'm going to have to watch it again because I didn't realise that Bert Kwouk was the old guy.....CATO!!! -) "},{"Title":"Best American Jet Li Movie Ever!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow! I was impressed how this movie was, far surpassing Jet Li's other American movies. The fight scenes were better even though it didn't use any of the crappy special effects that was used in The One, and the story was pretty decent. Even though not as good as his Chinese films, this movie was better then his other American movies. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Amazin","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've a great follow of martial art movies.  This ranked up with the best. In line of Bruce Lee.  The plot was good, the fight scenes were nicely put together.  Overall it was solidly constructed with everything that is needed for a complete movie, fightin, love, tragic twist and a happy endin "},{"Title":"Sigh... mish mash mess","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to Paris Mr. Li.  Turns out the formula for this film is to put you with some decent actors, place your always good choreographed fight scenes into effect with Corey Yuen's help,  take screenplay writer Luc Besson's plausible story of a Chinese cop framed for a murder by some corrupt French police, and you should have a decent film.  Problem is it just doesn't happen.The action is good, one scene involves a fight on a tour ship with the back drop of the Eiffel Tower.  Another involves 2 twins who seem to be right out of a video game, and another that involves Li ambushing a police station, but accidentally entering a dojo room with 25 police offers all brandishing batons, and of course... kicking their ass brilliantly.  Li also gets to show some more acting chops, he's given a chance to show off his character when he befriends a local prostitute, and given some actually workable dialogue.  So what the hell went wrong???Firstly the story was just taking too long to get started, secondly there is too much gunplay.  At the beginning a bunch of rogue cops end up shooting a hotel to pieces SO much chasing Li, that it ends up looking like the Beirut Hilton.  Sure certainly these cops can be excused for that, (right???) but it doesn't seem to make sense in to the amount of damage these guys do chasing down Li (and killing lots of innocent by-standards) without somehow being found out??  Arousing sucpicion  Ok there has to be some sense of dis-belief, but this was too much even for my tastes and that makes fault number 3.The the film tries to get serious and we are bounced around between melodrama and then bullets... which is it gonna be??  By this time I just didn't care and found myself very bored.  And then gave up.  sigh... luckily I rented this, had I shelled out hard cash I think I would have been more p***ed. "},{"Title":"I would really appreciate it if you....don't do that again!!!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie kicks a**. The villain, hero and plot are excellent. A much better movie than many other modern action movies. This has a good storyline and great action. I would recommend this movie to anyone who desires both action and a good story all rolled into one. ********** "}{"Title":"For Clarification Purposes","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An action movie with a plot is extremely hard to portray. Take Lethal Weapon for example. Some in the film industry i.e. producers, directors etc., told the story writer that Lethal Weapon would never work on the big screen because you can not have a protagonist that is suicidal. A role so well portrayed by a well known (Mel Gibson). Hence, the writer was basically being told you can't have an great action movie with a great plot as well. Looks like they were all confused. Lethal Weapon was a huge hit. Likewise, with Kiss of the Dragon. This movie is beyond underrated. That is why the film credits are jumping like made since it hit DVD. People are just now trying it out for reasons already discussed and lack of actor notoriety. Well, in my opinion Kiss of the Dragon was better than Lethal Weapon in many ways. Kiss of the Dragon is Jet Li's and co-star Bridget Fonda's greatest movie to date. The action, plot and chemistry between Li and Fonda was right on. Give it the credit it deserves. The package just doesn't get any better. For clarification purposes I give it a rating of 10/10. "},{"Title":"Would have been great except...","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a great action movie with an excellent cast, except for the completely unnecessary inclusion of Bridget Fonda. Her character and subplot ruin the movie and make of it a tired cliche. We don't care about this stupid American hooker and her kidnapped daughter. What are they doing in France, anyway? It's ludicrous, and her acting is annoying rather than sympathetic. Once she shows up, the movie goes downhill, and not even the brilliant action sequences and fine performances from the rest of the cast can save it. Fonda's character seems only to be included because the movie takes place in France, with French and Chinese characters, and perhaps the studio felt American audiences would not be able to identify with an all-foreign cast. So an otherwise fine script is dashed against the rocks of mediocrity when it could have been one of the great action films of all time, and certainly would have been worthy of being mentioned alongside John Woo's Hong Kong classics like THE KILLER. I give it a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The Dragon does give a Kiss","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Director Chris Nahon attempts a great job putting Jet Li in this violent film.  It is much more than action, there is some crime and plenty of suspense to shock all.  I was a bit skeptical about the role of Bridget Fonda (a whore), but who cares?!  I just love the kick-*ss action.  A moderately big explosion, a pretty good car chase, and some graphic violence should attract the movie lovers.  Better than the adequate Romeo Must Die, better explanation than The One and he is more recognized than Lethal Weapon 4.  Although all four of those movies are good, Kiss of the Dragon is the better pick than the rest. "},{"Title":"As Good As It Can Get","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is as good as a violent action movie can get. I am not a fan of martial art movies, and would probably have avoided it, if it was not produced by Luc Besson (director of the original 'Nikita' and of the '5th Element') and acted among other by the excellent Bridget Fonda and Tcheky Karyo. I was not disappointed by their acting, by the way, and even the martial arts star was not bad at all. The story of the Chinese cop framed by his French counterparts in a murder and drugs intrigue has not too much logic, but what logic can you expect from such a movie - when a full hotel and a tourist boat are destroyed in matter of minutes, and dozens of bodies head gladly to the Garden of Eden for the 'pleasure' of the viewer. Pleasure it is indeed if you can put common sense aside, watch and enjoy the choreography of the fights, the various and creative ways people seem to die, and the well filmed Paris landscape, now theater for the real life (should I say real death?) Far Eastern martial arts wars. Interestingly enough, the French play the role of the bad guys in the movie, while the Chinese are the good ones - this must be some kind of concession to penetrate the big Far East market. The film gets 7/10 on my scale, the best I can grade this type of cinematographic entertainment. "},{"Title":"You don't want the Kiss of the Dragon","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After you watch this film, you will understand why you want to avoid the kiss of the dragon like the plague.I liked this better than Jet Li's Romeo Must Die.  The beginning was confusing. It wasn't until 20 minutes into the movie I finally understood what Johnny was there to do and how he got set up.  A lot of the action scenes were good.  One thing I never got was what was in those needles he kept sticking people with. Was it some ancient Chinese trick.(SPOILERS) I thought it was rather silly how when Jet Li enters into the room filled with other kung-fu guys and of course he kicks all their *ss by himself. You would think they would be smart enough for 5 of them to gang tackle him at once.   I also liked it when he kicks the pool ball into a guy's head.  And one of the final scenes where we get to see the kiss of the dragon was really cool.  We get to see a little gore there. (END OF SPOILERS)FINAL VERDICT Enough action scenes to keep you entertained.  Worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Trashy,but watchable.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story was full of holes,and the acting is bad enough to shame a nursery school production. But the action didn't let up for a second,and been as this is an action film,you can't ask for much more can you. Like i said,the acting isn't much cop. Jet li gives the same cold,inexpressive performance he usualy gives,fonda is wasted with a thankless part,and karyo is absolutely terible is the bad guy. Very violent in parts(especaly when jet shows you why the film is called kiss of the dragon),but that's why people watch films like this,and it is entertaining seeing jet take on about twenty guys at a time. And be the last one standing. Not a masterpiece then,but not unwatchable. It's not as delightfully silly as THE ONE,but far more fun than the dull romeo must die. "},{"Title":"Almost relentless action but we've seen it all before...","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If brainless action is what you go for, Kiss of the Dragon provides plenty of it. This is a typical effort in which the Kung-Fu hero, in this case Jet Li (instead of Jackie Chan, Don the Dragon Wilson, Billy Blanks, or Steven Seagal) whips about 200 guys during the course of the film, in one case, about 20 French Kung-Fuers at once. The plot, such as it is, involves the assassination of some Chinese drug-Lord by the Paris Chief of Police, either to silence him or to take over his half of the drug business they share, or both...it's never made clear. Jet Li, a super-cop on loan from Peking, is set up to take the fall for the murder. The first 20 minutes, involving the assassination, are the best part of the film, which quickly degenerates into a garden-variety Kung-Fu film. The action scenes, though cleverly staged and varied, eventually becoming numbingly predictable...you've seen it all in dozens of other Kung-Fu movies. If you don't get bored easily or don't care about the senseless, stupid plot, you might enjoy it. My mind began to wander after about 45 minutes.... "},{"Title":"Very violent action packed thriller.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the dragon is a violent and very fast paced martial arts thriller.Jet Li stars as a chinese cop who goes to Paris to take out a drugs cartel.The people he is after (one a bent cop) find out his Identity and go after him.One of the prostitutes working for the cartel(Bridget Fonda),needs his help and helps him out in return to find her daughter. Kiss of the dragon is a highly excessive and very violent thriller.It was more violent than I could expect.The martial art scenes are great and the stunts are brilliant.I hope I'm not spoiling anything,but if you were ever wondering what the kiss of the dragon was,it is a very violent move with a very powerful and deadly result.It is not used till the end but you will find out.I highly reccomend this,definitly worth the rent.I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly different Martial Arts film","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film yesterday without having heard anything about it, but simply having enjoyed much of Jet Li's films I just grabbed it.The film is based on a story written by Jet himself, with the screenplay being sorted by Luc Besson. There are some links with with the old and new 'Nikita' movie and series that I enjoyed, in that the character 'Richard' (Tchéky Karyo) played 'Bob' in Nikita, and Bridget Fonda who plays Jessica in this film, and 'La Femme Nikita' in the tv series. I also felt the influence of Luc Besson too (Nikita and this film), especially a couple of moments which reminded me of 'Leon' shining through in the Liu Jian character, a single minded and supremely talented person who is emotionally undeveloped but learns to care, and is not without flaws.So, whilst some might dismiss this as just another beat-em-up, there was a richness and a beauty to the filming, especially the framing of shots and the depth to some of the characters. Jet's character never does anything too unbelievable; he does get hurt from time to time, but he thinks on his feet, and it's a joy to watch the terrific fight scenes which had my friend and myself almost feeling some of the blows, you'll be glad you're not one of the baddies in this.Bridget Fonda is a slight letdown in this, as she is not particularly convincing a lot of the time, though she has some very good moments which redeemed her overall. Bert Kwouk was excellent, and a pleasant surprise.I loved this film. "},{"Title":"Average action movie!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched Kiss of the Dragon at the cinema and i have to say i was dissapointed, because i am a huge Jet Li fan, i have still not seen him make a decent film since he moved to hollywood.  I think the one is poor and romeo must die is way over the top compared to some of his classics in china. Some of the fight seens in this movie were not what i have come to expect from Li and in future i think he should edit his own fight seens. Jet get your act together mate!   "}{"Title":"Only for the action","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie lacked a lot of things that I didn't expect, like a plot, but it also lacked things like original action sequences or even a reasonable location.  Paris makes a great setting for action movies, but only if you actually include it in the picture.  French hookers and a couple cheesy shots of the Eiffel Tower don't count.  Why not show some cojones and make it a French language film?  Instead, everyone in the movie spoke English the whole time, whether they were French, Chinese, American, or otherwise.It was clear that the script was just an excuse to make an action movie, but some explanation as to the man who is killed at the beginning of the movie would have been nice.  Instead, Nohan and Besson made no attempt to explain anything, instead demanding that the viewer accept random plot devices without questioning them.Having said all that, I was entertained for most of the movie.  Luckily they didn't screw around and make it a 130 minute monster, but cut it short and that helped the tempo a lot.  Jet Li still struggles with English, and I still like watching Ms. Fonda in any kind of role.  Hopefully she will be more selective in her next film.  3/10 "},{"Title":"miss of the dragon","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie concentrates ONLY on the absolutely horrific violent and confusing action sequences.it has poor actors and and the so called 'plot' seems to be there only because traditionally movies do have somekind of a plot, and so they had to come up with something.some of the rare action sequences WITHOUT guns are the only light of the film. i laughed hard with jet li fighting the whole martial art club with the sticks.anyway, i wish jet li would've never gone to make english-speaking films. the level of his movies has dropped dramatically, which is very sad to see.recommended only to dedicated action fans who are looking for nothing but to zero their brains watching a movie. "},{"Title":"Jet Lei's best!!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Martial Arts coreography at its best.  I have watched this movie many times. Jet Lei has a more serious approach than other Martial Arts movie stars. The plot and action will keep your attention.  Bridgit Fonda is an excellent co-star, the villain was correctly cast to say the least. "},{"Title":"Great action flick!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li's best hollywood flick so far is a bone crunchingly good but strangely forgettable film. I am not a big Jet Li fan, I haven't seen many of his hong kong films but I don't usually watch them unless they have Jackie Chan or John Woo connected with them, not that there bad but I get annoyed by awful dubbing and the un-interesting stories in most of them. Chan is watchable mainly becuase of the tongue in cheek style and exceptional stunts. Jet Li may not entertain in that way but he is an amazing martial artist and so unbelievably quick, while giving off a bad ass aura and glare that is the nearast to rivalling Bruce Lee himself.In kiss of the dragon, you have a pretty average hollywood actioner with some brilliant fight sequences put in. The story is average with no real shocking twists. The action scenes though are the best Li has done since coming to hollywood, particularly when he takes on about thirty guys in a dojo and they all end up bloody nosed on the canvas. Li is rather stoney face and un-emotive but this is a better performance than in Romeo must die and Lethal Weapon 4 but still he looks as though he's tryling to wrestle with Schwarzenegger and Van Damme for king wood of the action genre. Bridget Fonda plays the sexy hooker well and Tcheky Karyo makes a good villain. Overall this is rather forgettable but it was good. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Some truly spectacular action sequences battle against uneven pace","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's a Jet Li movie, so naturally you can expect to see some truly spectacular action sequences and stuntwork.  In one scene, he kicks a billiards ball out from its pocket, sends it flying up and kicks it across the room, slamming the ball into the villian's face.  Now that's awesome!!!  Of course, some of the scenes are unconvincing and somewhat laughable.  I know Jet's a brilliant martial artist, but in one scene he takes on a whole class of about 20 blackbelts.  Of course, he kicks the snot out of every one of them.  And of course, no one attacks him from behind.  But it's an action film--it's sheer exhibition.  The problem I had was the pacing of the film.  It starts out with a bang, keeping your adrenaline pumping.  Then...the plot kicks in.  Yes, it actually starts to get plot-heavy.  Now, I know martial arts films aren't known to contain very extensive plots, but when the plot is weak there's no use emphasizing it.  It's all predictable.  Get on with the action! The film's strongest points occur at the beginning and end.  In the middle it begins to drag.  Sure, the dialogue is cheesy and the characters are thin, but I'm willing to sacrifice those qualities!  I'm not keeping my expectations high.  I honestly watched this movie just to see Jet Li kick some ass.  But the ass-kicking time is cut short, for the sake of its lame plot.  Do I recommend this movie?  For a rental, yes.  It's an OK movie, with some great moments worth watching over and over again.  And I loved the soundtrack, too.  My score  6 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Lots of action scenes, no plot, still cool!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has plenty of action scenes, but no plot! Sure, it is meant to be about Li stopping some drug lord, but it pays so little attention to it, and pays much more attention to the wicked fight scenes! Not a bad thing, but still confusing! A good movie to rent or buy, just look elsewhere for plot! "},{"Title":"At last Jets back to his best.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon, what a title, why only later in the film I understood this.  Jet Li had a run of a few bad films of late but now I know he really is back to form and if this is his best years boy have we got some great films to come from Mr Li.  The film itself had a great story line and some well known stars with Bridget Fonda giving a great performance and this makes a great film.  I wont spoil anything here but I can honestly say that martial arts films are back up there with the best and Jet li is one actor that is helping the course.  This and The One are two of the best martial arts films out at the moment and credit to all for allowing us to have the pleasure in watching them.  7/10 for this great film. "},{"Title":"This isn't intended to be a review of the movie.","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This isn't intended to be a review of the movie.  Suffice it to say I'm taking the time to submit some comments, so it's good enough to recommend to fans of this genre.1)  Action films aren't known for their thought-provoking dialog.  The lines delivered by the majority of the top male action stars serve one of two purposes  explain why what just happened is remotely possible; get free advertising by giving viewers witty taglines to repeat over and over.2)  Excluding the dialog and lack of chemistry between Jet and Bridget, this is a very entertaining and fairly interesting film, even if the plot is a bit far fetched (what action flick's isn't?).  I found the script better and more coherent than the script of The One (2002) and there is more action here than in Romeo Must Die (2000).3)  There are many similarities between Tchéky Karyo's character (Richard) in this movie and Gary Oldman's character (Norman Stansfield) in Léon (1994).  Since Luc Besson wrote the screenplays for both, it's probably not just coincidence.  Both actors do a fine job with their characters, but Mr. Oldman's Norman is my favorite of the two.4)  Even though Graydon Carterit thinks it's the end of the age of irony, I wonder what was behind the chose of Bridget Fonda as the female lead. Mr. Besson also wrote and directed Nikita (1990) which was remade for the dumb and numb portion of the US audience as Point of No Return (1993) starring Ms. Fonda.  Makes me wonder... "},{"Title":"A fine international thrill ride","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When a sting goes wrong, a Chinese intelligence officer (Jet Li) is framed by Richard (Tcheky Karyo), a crooked Paris police captain/drug lord, tries to clear his name with the help of druged-up and gloomy-eyed hooker (Bridget Fonda).The performances here are fine; Li never loses his confidence, Fondais good in providing the emotional edge, and Karyo is effective in not trying to be a John Malkovich-like copycat.  Even the twins who are among the endless supply of thugs that the Li character deals with throughout the movie are just as nasty as Richard is.Kiss of the Dragon was directed by Chris Nahon, who does a fine job of directing here and the script, written by Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen isn't too difficult to understand.  Plus, Thierry Arbogast's camera work is excellent in covering the streets of Paris.Overall, the movie is a fine international thrill ride. "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, granted, it's an action flick and I didn't watch it for it's great dialogue.  C'mon, it's Jet Li kicking butt, that's what we want to see right?  Well, I agree, seeing Jet Li kick some bootie is always a fun thing to watch.  But...I don't know, something about this movie (or I should say many things) didn't sit well with me.But Chris, what exactly didn't you like about the film?I'm glad you asked, I'll tell you.There were a number of scenes where I just wanted to bust up laughing 'cause it was all so gratuitous.  And a lot of the stunts/fights were so over-the-top absurd.  For instance, when the pilot guy busts out those MASSIVE guns, I almost started busting up.  That is so convenient, he sees the hero running away and he just happens to have these massive weapons on him and starts firing at him.  Then Jet Li kicks the billiard ball out of the billiard pocket and kicks it at the pilot guy and knocks him out. That would hurt your foot so friggin' bad!  But hey it's all in good fun right? Whatever.Ok then a bit later he's fighting those guys in his friends' shop and he of course beats the crap out of them.  Then all of sudden this totally ripped, huge black guy comes into the store, takes off his shirt to show his muscles and starts fighting Jet Li.  Where the hell did this guy come from?  Who's this guy?  He wasn't even in the movie until this point, and never shows up again!!!  I thought it was hilarious.  And sadly, the fight between Jet and this guy wasn't very impressive.  Oh well.I hated the part where Jet Li and Bridget Fonda were trying to get away from the bad guys and so he grabbed her, wrapped his leg up in the curtain, then fell backwards out of the window.  That was so stupid!  He sure has a lot of faith in that curtain that it'll hold his weight and Bridget's, and not only that but he's just hoping that he can hold on to Bridget and send her flying face-first into the concrete.  You probably have to see it to know what I'm talking about.Then, of course, near the end of the movie he has to fight the martial arts trained white guy and the ENORMOUS other white guy.  That fight was ok, until the point where he flips him over and breaks his neck.  SO STUPID!!! You have to see it to know what I'm talking about.  Then he has to fight the huge white guy and that fight wasn't very impressive and far too short.Ok, then the stupidest part of the film was the very end when he fights Tcheky Karyo and puts that pin in his neck.  SO *&%$@# STUPID!!!  I just don't buy that whole acupuncture and pressure point crap, or at least not to the extent they show in the film, SO DUMB!One very good aspect of the film is Bridget Fonda.  She is so beautiful that she is worth watching the movie alone and I think she's a pretty good actress too.Well, I can't think of anything else to rant and rave about, so that's it for now.  If you're up for a good laugh, then by all means watch this film. ...Or if you just want to see what I'm talking about in the previous paragraphs, then watch it.  Anyhow, thanks for reading,-Chris "}{"Title":"Just more of the same standard B-action.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had no expectations for this movie.Li is no Jackie Chan and you know it.He does not have any sense of humour and his acting is not good.Ok,he`s good at martial arts-but so? Not much more,i`m afraid.The movie does not have a story,it doesn`t need any either,but it lacks much more! Bad acting,way too bloody and violent,too much stupid and boring dialogue... And what the hell does Bridget Fonda here? She doesn`t fit in her part at all! Another bad choice for her after the stupid movie Monkeybone. But the main reason that makes this movie extremely boring is that you`ve seen it all before.And you`ve seen it better...(Rating 3/10) "},{"Title":"Dragonball Li","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"         Paris seems to be the best city in the world for an espionage movie. Maybe because of the elegance and grace of its scenery. Almost as if it is the perfect place to hide roguish hi-jinx beneath the surface of its leisurely atmosphere. Then again,maybe it's just another interesting setting to stage a Jet Li movie. And since French filmmaker Luc Besson is producer,why not? In KISS OF THE DRAGON, there are fights in a snazzy hotel, on a floating cafe, an infamous freeway tunnel, a cobblestoned rue and an old school orphanage. The choreography of these fights are top-notch. Although these days,this is the type of film where some viewers will be looking for the strings. You can thank DVD for that. The star of the this vehicle is obviously Jet Li. Next to Jackie Kong, Hong Kong's biggest action star. He plays a cop who,I think,is supposed to be a Chinese version of a U.S. Marshall. He is supposed to apprehend and extradite an alleged drug kingpin with the help of a nefarious French inspector. Well,things don't go quite as intended. Instead, it turns out to be an ambush for reasons that I am not quite sure. Anyhow,that sets the plot in motion as Jet Li's hero is set up for the murder and must single-handedly fight off the sleazy police. And sleazy they are. They operate a prostitution ring as a device for catching high rolling criminals with their pants down. Literally. Can't they just use undercovers? Literally? Bridget Fonda co-stars as a shanghai-ed hooker whose daughter is kept away by the main villain. She just happens to meet her hero on the street where he is hiding. Fonda's presence in the film is for extra star power just in case Jet Li's name isn't enough of a draw. The sleazy Prefect of Police is played by Tcheky Karyo(THE PATRIOT,BAD BOYS) who looks and plays the role with villainous zeal in the exact manner of David Warner and Malcolm McDowell. Unfortunately, the character is nothing more than a rehash of the loose cannon cop that Gary Oldman overplayed in Luc Besson's THE PROFESSIONAL. Burt Kwouk from THE PINK PANTHER movies has a small role as a Chinese contact in Paris,but his role surprisingly isn't a comic one. The one thing I did admire about this flick is that it incorporated its title in the plot at the very end. I thought it was just another variant hook on Bruce Lee's blockbuster. From what I understand, the title reference is an actual phenomenon. It's amazing what the story department can spin into a movie these days. Good job.  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  great, a little too violent","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kiss of the Dragon is another Jet Li film. At least in the USA, Jet Li and Jackie Chan are the two popular martial arts stars. Jet Li films have a bit more of an edge... more violence & gore, some comedy but mostly serious & deadly. Jackie Chan films have a lot more comedy and if anyone gets hurt it's cartoony or off-screen. Finally, the stunts in Jet Li films are a little wilder, but come across less naturally because of the wires and maybe they are trying a little too hard. (Still, it's impressive.)Personally, I prefer Jackie. Kiss of the Dragon is well-worth seeing for action fans. There was a little too much violence / blood for me. And the ending wasn't satisfying. But the fight scenes are competitive with modern classics and overall I was very impressed.Who should see this film-- Action movie buffs, a must-see, but don't bring your non-actionloving SO.-- I can't think of anyone elseI'll give Kiss of the Dragon a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Full on action/suspense where Jet Li shines.","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li shines in this full on action thriller.   Be warned though, it is very violent with bodies going everywhere.   The basic story line surrounds an assassination where Jet Li's character is laid out as the patsy by the French Police involved.   Tcheky Karyo plays the corrupt French Detective passionately.  You can't help but hate him and the way he freely disposes of anyone in his way.   You realise that there is no way this sort of thing could really happen but you put that aside once Jet Li gets into full flight.   I can't help compare Jet Li's style with that of Steven Seagal.   Cool in appearance but capable of dishing out treatment to anyone.   One scene was way over the top but was a delight to watch.   Jet Li in his attempt to locate the evil Detective, enters the Police H.Q. only to walk into a room full of black belted police practicing karate.  Bridget Fonda plays the prostitute trying to get her daughter back.  She magically crosses path with Jet Li.   Unfortunately for Bridget, if she's not careful she may become type cast in this role.   Overall, this movie gets and 8/10 from me.    "},{"Title":"Very entertaining action film","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Kiss of The Dragon really delivers the important aspects of an action movie with high quality.  It has some good actors, Tchecky Karyo, Bridget Fonda and Jet Li.   I want to be clear about that last one; Jet Li is not Orson Welles, sure, but he's for sure one of the best in what he does.  He's amazing, his moves, his fights, and his amazing ways of either killing or beating up people.  Right, his roles don't require a big acting talent, but I'll admit that many action films have a very bad actor as the main character, and it's never a good thing.  In Kiss of The Dragon, Jet Li is perfect for the role; Oriental guy, good actor, good in martial arts.   Now, the question is what does this movie has more than other action movies?  The answer is hard to explain...like Die Hard (which really is one of the best action movies ever), it seems to be a special formula.  And I know that the expression of special formula is somehow sarcastic (because all action movies are pretty much all the same thing).  The meaning of that was that it's hard to say why a movie that tells the story of a cop that beats up and kills his enemies can be better than another movie that tells the exact same story.  It's like when you smell two different perfumes that are both made with the same oils, but you prefer one to the other.  I guess it's all about the hero's charisma, and the quality of the action sequences.   Anyways, Kiss of The Dragon has both of them, plus some good acting (even though Karyo's english accent is hard to understand).  There are some memorable fights in this film, especially the one in the chinese restaurant, when a very muscled black man takes on Jet Li, and the one at the end.  The choregraphs are done so well, the action is pure, and the entertainment follows this path.  Even though the story has nothing special, nothing new, it doesn't have the pretention to say it is important. Again, this joins the rank of great action films, along with the Die Hard trilogy, Speed, Face/Off, Broken Arrow, and others.  Enjoy it, and have fun, it's agreeable to watch, and very entertaining.  I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Thats better","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kiss of the Dragon my not be the best action movie i have ever seen but it is pretty good nonetheless. Is Kiss of the Dragon better then The One? Yes thank goodness. Is it a great super action hit? No. Though the story is not that good, the fighting scenes are. Thats what this movie is, a fighting movie. I mean nobody pays to see a Jet Li movie for laughs. The fighting scenes are good. They're not amazing or anything but they are good. I believe that Jet Li is the best martial arts actor today. So far in western movies he has not really flexed his muscles and show some of the real deal. Jackie Chan is a joke so he always makes Li's films look better. At least Li is not a kung fu clown posing to be skilled. In terms of a fighting movie I give KOTD about an 7.5 out of 10. As a whole I give it a 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better than Romeo Must Die and Lethal Weapon 4","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  But not as good as any of the more than a dozen other Jet Li movies I've seen.This movie has a great cast and crew, all proven, except for first-time director Chris Nahon, who, it seems, must take most of the blame for the shortcomings of this film -- simply because the cast, choreographer, cinematographer, producer, etc, have all done much better action films. Much, much better.  All of them.Kiss of the Dragon is a relatively serious and dramatic Hong Kong-style action film.  It's gritty and depressing by US standards.  That doesn't bother me; I like Yuen Biao's Righting Wrongs, which is even more downbeat.Kiss of the Dragon is an action film, and so the action is what matters most.  It's better than the action in Romeo Must Die, but not nearly up to Jet Li standards.  And the main problem is the way it's filmed and edited. The competent choreography -- done by Corey Yuen Kwai -- winds up looking bad on the screen because it's almost all done in close-ups, shallow field, rapid cuts, blurs and inappropriate slow-motion, and jerky non-transitions.It's often hard to tell exactly what's going on, and a lot of the kung fu winds up looking fake, which is especially annoying because Jet Li doesn't need wires or camera or editing tricks to be amazing.  He just needs the camera to document him being amazing, and that doesn't happen here.Not a bad movie, all in all, but not a great Jet Li movie.  Maybe Chris Nahon will go on to do great things, but this film isn't what it could have been. "},{"Title":"Kick butt Gung Fu -  6.5 of 10","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What do you want in a Kung Fu film?  Plot?  Dialogue?  Naahhh!  I want pretty much what I saw with Jet Li in this film.  He and Jackie Chan are the top two fighters on film today.  But Jackie's style seems to pack less punch while Jet appears to fight with more force and firmness.  Both are excellent, fast and fun to watch, but I believe Jet to be the more serious fighter. "},{"Title":"Great fighting scenes!","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Im a huge Jet Li fan, and the scenes in Kiss of The Dragon were very good, considering all of the computer aided scenes we keep seeing lately. This movie brings old school fighting back and Li kicks ass in this movie! good old fashioned hong kong esqe scenes, and a beautiful Bridgett Fonda Co-Starring in this flick!!..Worth having in my DVD collection enough said. Jet li hasnt been this good since the Fist Of Legend movies and Once Upon A Time In China. **1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Good Kung-Fu Kickin Fun","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have just recently gotten really into martial arts movies. I have seen Enter the Dragon and a few other Kung-Fu flicks and I have to say that this is a very good one. The fight scenes are brilliantly choreographed. The fights are also pretty violent and bloody...which I always like. Hehe. Jet Li is also great. His moves are awesome and Bridget Fonda is really cool. There isnt much to the plot so I dont have much else to say besides that you should definitely see this movie if you love good action packed martial arts movies. "}{"Title":"Jet Li back in action!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn´t expect Kiss of the dragon to be anything new or unusual. Well I was absolutely wright about this. KOD was another entertaining action flick. This time there is no computer kung fu like in Romeo must die but the normal Jackie Chan style kicking is also nicely made.Jet Li is again very convinsing and Bridget Fonda makes a nice performance also (and she´s good looking). KOD was normal kung fu- action movie. Lot of great fight scenes and some nice acting too. Karyo was very good. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Talent gone to waste","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li with Luc Besson seemed like a great combination - Li's physical prowess coupled with Besson's eye for characters & cinematography should have produced a winner.  So how did it all go so wrong?The screenplay for the movie was a joke for one thing - feels like something they must have come up with in an evening at the pub, after a few too many beers.  And then casting Bridget Fonda opposite Jet... not only was her character utterly pointless, but she gives possibly the worst performance I have ever seen.  Please, never give this woman another movie role.  The rest of the plot is very disjointed and largely pointless, full of cliches. How Luc Besson let this happen is a mystery.Still, at least we should get some decent action, right?  Well, barely. The fight between Jet & the twins is good, but the rest is all pretty pedestrian choreography & filming.  By Hong Kong standards, well below average.  The violence that was meant to satisfy those fans who felt that Romeo Must Die was too lightweight just felt inappropriate.Such a shame that a potentially great idea could turn into such a lousy movie. "},{"Title":"great action film 9/10","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li's The Kiss of the Dragon, is his best American film yet.  The film is an excellent R rated action film.  It's gory and violent; it features a very sexy Bridget Fonda, and of course it has a wonderful villain.  A perfect action picture -- made for people who like action.  Beautifully shot in Paris. "},{"Title":"this movie rules!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li once again proves he is indeed an action superstar. In my opinion Kiss of the Dragon is one of the best action movies that I have seen to date. I realize the movie has not really received excellent marks and has even been criticized, so I will briefly try to justify this film. I generally tend to rate movies by repeat value, although there are always exceptions. In any event, action movies are easy to tire of because once you've seen it you already know whats going to happen. I have found that this movie has excellent repeat value, despite being an almost purely action film. The villain in this film is truly excellent, his character is one you will have truly begun to hate by the end of the film. The action scenes are well done and very realistic and the plot is not hard to follow, and I believe actually quite decent for an action film. So if you havent seen this movie, I'd strongly suggest you do, especially if you are a fan of any sort of action films.  "},{"Title":"Incredible, just incredible","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I honestly wasn't expecting much out of this film. I went to the video store yesterday to rent Die Hard 3 (another great film) but both copies were already checked out. After browsing for awhile, I found a section on the New Release wall devoted to this movie, Kiss Of The Dragon. After much thought, I decided to go ahead and rent it, just for the heck of it. I popped it in half-heartedly, ordered a pizza and started watching it. I automatically forgot my hunger within the first ten minutes. The pizza arrived, but I was too focused on the movie to even bother eating (this is saying alot, usually nothing will stop me from eating, but this movie definitely took priority). The movie was just amazing great martial arts, great effects, intriguing plot-line, and it was a great surprise since I wasn't expecting such an epic film to begin with. Needless to say, at the end of the movie I caught my breath, felt a growling in my stomach, and proceeded to devour my completely un-eaten 16' pizza, which had turned cold by that time. Rent this movie, I saw it twice (once yesterday and again today) and I plan on purchasing the DVD. It's brilliant! "},{"Title":"I wasn't expecting much, but I was pleasantly surprised! (Minor spoilers)","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is Jet Li's second major Hollywood vehicle, and this time the story is set in France. Li plays Liu Jian, a police officer from China who is sent to assist French Inspector Richard (Karyo) in surveying the Chinese crime Lord, Mr Big (Young). Jian soon finds that he is in over his head, as he is set-up for Big?s murder by the corrupt Inspector. Whilst evading the entire French police force, Jian encounters Jessica (Fonda), a prostitute forced to work the streets in order to see her kidnapped daughter. Together they form a mutual friendship against a common enemy! Jian then attempts to prove his innocence and also save Jessica?s daughter from Richard and his legion of corrupt officers.'Kiss of the Dragon' is better than I expected although the plot wasn't exceptional, but it was entertaining enough. For a Jet Li action film, Luc Besson's script is satisfactory and is less stupid than other fighting films. The opening sequence is fast-paced and intense, while the middle slows down significantly but not enough to detract from the film. Jet Li's fight scenes are superb and there is plenty of action in this film! First-time director Chris Nahon has made an entertaining action film that doesn't take itself too seriously, but without being completely over-the-top either. Jet Li's performance is fairly good, even in the acting department, but especially in the martial arts department! He certainly has screen presence and prowess! Bridget Fonda gives the best performance as far as acting, even though the role of Jessica is nowhere near her greatest part, although her character is the most developed. Tcheky Karyo relishes the part as the villain and provides an entertaining antagonist to Li's hero.Although some of the plot is flawed, the premise is actually quite good but yet never reaches the status of The Fugitive as far as suspense. It is simply all about action, as Jet Li's seemingly invincible character, Liu Jian, gives the bad guys what they deserve. Unfortunately, the flaws of Kiss of the Dragon include certain questions raised about the character of Liu Jian that is never resolved! That aside, the action scenes and storyline have enough to keep an audience entertained, and the overall style of the film is impressive. With various camera-angles to make it visually interesting, and very good fight choreography along with editing make 'Kiss of the Dragon' an action film worth watching.  ***1/2 out of *****! "},{"Title":"China Town!!!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well,i dont know its seems to me thats its a great movie maybe one of the best with Jet Li,i think he is the best action actor in hole hollywood right now so just dont get to agresive while u watchin it,couse its posible.... "},{"Title":"...try try again.","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As I get older I find I want more and more from media.  I know that if I had seen this movie 15 years ago I would have put it on my top 100 all time favorites.  Now, the plot holes really bother me, the evil French Cop is just pathetic, and Bridget/Jet have looked a lot better else where.  The action is good.  The action is fun.  The Black Pimp enforcer is phenomenal.  Burt Kwouk made something out of nothing as the shrimp chip guru.  But I think I was being very generous giving it a five, as I would rather shake hands with a politician than view it again. "},{"Title":"Jet Li in another kick-butt action flick","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I won't even go into the story for Kiss of the Dragon because for me it's just too hard to really keep track of and plus it doesn't matter since there's all the fights. The acting is pretty good especially from Jet Li and Tchéky Karyo, who plays corrupt French police officer Richard. He is probably the best character in Kiss of the Dragon and ***SPOILER*** has the bloodiest death in the whole movie. Bridget Fonda is good also.The fights. The fight sequences in Kiss of the Dragon are very well executed and choreographed. Probably the one fight I will remember would probably be the fight between Jet Li and the two blonde-haired henchmen, played by French actors Cyril Raffaelli and Didier Azoulay. It really is nice to see two non-Asian people who are able match wits with Jet Li in a fight. I mean for a second there, I actually thought that Jet Li was doomed to these two guys. I really wish these two were more developed in this movie.Let's face the facts Jet Li has proved that he is quite the martial arts star. He is already at the top of his game and with Lethal Weapon 4, Romeo Must Die, and the much recent The One under his belt, he is doing pretty fine for himself. I can already see that probably not even five years from now, he will probably star in a really good movie, up there with the likes of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Finally, one thing that really seems to get at me is that some people believe that Jet Li is the new Bruce Lee. Hardly. Myself and anyone else who reads this knows that this is not true. I like Jet Li. I believe that he can act and kick serious a** in his films but to say that he is the next Bruce Lee is just wrong.Kiss of the Dragon gets a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For once it's refreshing to see an action film that doesn't try to disguise itself as anything else. With a totally unrealistic plot that is as full of holes as a chunk of edam, KOD makes a pleasant change from Hollywood action films such as Time Cop, Swordfish and many more. KOD loudly proclaims I am an action film, and nothing but!!!. It is packed with stunning martial arts sequences and some brilliant character portrayal (along with atmospheric music - don't care what anybody else says, I appreciated it!) that more than compensate for it being a tad far-fetched.It is so nice to see something different coming out of Hollywood. I have lost count of the number of big budget, but banal films (such as The Mummy Returns and Pearl Harbour) that are churned out in depressingly huge numbers by the American behemoth of film production. KOD is simple but effective.I have not become so emotionally involved in a film for a long time. I found some of the scenes and atmosphere to be very reminiscent of The Crow (Another film that got my emotions going). One such example of this was the pimp who kept savagely beating Bridget Fonda's character. I felt so angry watching what was going on, and hoped that he'd get what he deserved later in the film. My wish was fulfilled when Jet (after a lovely piece of suspense building acting) took on this guy and 2 of his henchmen simultaneously. It was fantastic to watch and left me grinning like a Cheshire cat!In a nutshell, the bad guys come across as being the scum of the Earth, Bridget Fonda plays a convincing role as a victim of almost total despair who can see no way out of her predicament, and Jet Li just demolishes everybody who deserves it!Enough comments have been displayed by others about some of the other notable fight sequences in KOD, so I'll not add to these here. What I will say is that if you enjoy quality martial arts action and are a bit of a romantic at heart, then this is one film you just do not want to miss. As others have advised though, disengage brain to enjoy it to the full! "}{"Title":"If Jet Li keeps this up, he will be joining the ranks of Dolph Lundgren and Jean-Claude Van Damme...","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"      The genre of the action film is to many the most appealing of films. Furthermore, the action film is not as common as the drama of the comedy simply because they are costly and require bigger production values. I have for long been a fan of International superstar Jet Li and his exquisite films overseas. Yet, now that admiration has grown to loathing as his American films simply seem to be regress as one becomes more appalling than the other. My hypothesis on the introductory sentences relates to the fact that perhaps action films are somewhat rare some due to the absence of intelligent and realistic scripts that place our characters in interesting and adventurous situations.     Such was the case thought Jet Li when he decided to star and write &#145;Kiss of the Dragon'. The only problem was, his script gets caught in the pitfalls of the same exact problems encountered previously. Produced by French filmmaker Luc Besson, it is merely an exercise in bad screenwriting, bad dialogue and over-the-top action sequences that aim to be exciting but simply deliver a mild tease with no pay off. Villains appear and disappear only to get entertained by the beating Jet Li's character &#145;John' (don't ask); a Chinese Intelligence officer who is framed for murder in Paris gives them.       Jet Li's story is ambitious at first, but takes a while to pick up and as it fastens the pace, the film relinquishes itself by inserting a horrible subplot about the witness who was at the scene and who wants to get her daughter back. Some advocates of the film might say that this subplot might add a humanistic touch. I say this slows down an action thriller that does not thrill nor deliver great action.      The film contains a simplistic feel by first time Director Chris Nohan; Luc Besson's producing values seem obsolete as he probably took a cash pay-off in order to attach his name to this dismal project. The acting is worth a look simply for its' caricatures of villains and their evil intentions. Actor Tcheky Karyo who has made a living off of playing diverse and interesting characters (The Patriot, Bad Boys) demotes himself as he plays a developed yet over zealous crooked French Official who indulges himself in his work through violence.      It might as well be said that this film is by far a failure because of the possibilities that could have been. Also, on an interesting note, what devalues this film is the addition to the cast of Bridget Fonda (Jessica) as the witness who happens to be a strung out prostitute who develops a relationship with John in her quest for salvation and her child. Wasn't she a promising actress once, who seemed to have potential? This relationship causes the to take a dive midway due to an extensive development of these two characters that is supposed to make the audience sympathize with these two characters. Yet, the only reaction this causes is the audience wishing the scene would just end and Jet Li would resume his sporadic attacks with martial mayhem as he destroys everything in his way.      Director Chris Nohan wants and attempts to make his villain and hero larger than life yet fails miserably. There is no tension captured on screen and simply but &#150; the plot is just horrible. The action sequences are quite vivid but that is simply because Nohan took a camera to the sequences and let Li do &#145;his thing'. Surely there was storyboarding and choreography involved, yet the effort is not conveyed on screen. If I am being harsh on this film, I should be. Talent such as Jet Li can excite and drive audiences with the right script and the right context. Unfortunately, this film fails on all levels and simply drags and never wants to end.Giancarlo's Rating * 1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"One of Jet Li's best movies.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The fight scenes were incredible. You won't be dissapointed. I know that Jet Li's  The One wasn't a real good movie but this is a way better movie. I haven't seen a martial arts movie this good since The Matrix. Excellent movie. A must see for Jet Li and action fans. "},{"Title":"Complete rubbish but quite enjoyable at the same time","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My summary says it all Kiss of the Dragon is complete rubbish and yet, somehow, is quite enjoyable. It's a popcorn movie where you leave your brain at home and just watch and smile.How is it bad? The plot is poor. Oh look we have to rescue a kidnapped kid. Oh look we got to get a stolen video tape. Never seen either of those elements before... Oh look over there - it's a prostitute who will redeem herself et cetera et cetera. Not one spark of originality there...The script? Not much effort here. In fact it's so poorly done in some ways it's comical. We're supposed to accept that a top French cop can get away with wandering around the city blasting sub-machine guns at everybody? Oh dear! And it's great to see how France has progressed where everybody, including natives, speaks English (note to writers look at Ronin and see how you can do sub-titles effectively). The acting? They all ham it up. Jet Li can't really act but hey, it's not required. Fonda is passable enough and Tchéky Karyo is wonderful in a completely over-the-top-almost-camp performance as the villain.  Acting? Who needs acting in a flick like this!Action? The whole film is based around the action sequences. Once again they're way over the top - people mowed down everywhere et cetera. But they're great fun and Jet Li moves so brilliantly. Oh and the little pins into nerve centres are a good touch.So how does it come together? Fairly well. You don't need acting here or a decent plot (just as well because you don't get either). You want fun action sequences? You got them. Hell you can even laugh at the movie (even when it's trying to be serious). By no means should you pay for a cinema ticket for this (it's not worth that) but it's certainly worth taking out on DVD or video and watching it with a group of mates and a few beers. Good fun. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Martial Arts Extravaganza","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***** out of ***** After starring in the highly entertaining Lethal Weapon 4 and the gravity defying Romeo Must Die, Jet Li has now got 3 excellent hollywood flicks under his belt. Kiss Of The Dragon takes Jet to Paris where he does battle with every gang member and corrupt cop he can get his hands on. Obviously Jet is well known for his immaculate martial arts expertise, so its no surprise that KOD contains a load full of fight sequences that are choreographed to its highest standard by the masterful Corey Yuen.Jet stars as Beijing cop Liu Jian who travels to Paris to assist Inspector Richard (Tcheky Karyo) in arresting one of the most powerful drug lords in Asia. When Richard murders the drug lord, Liu finds himself framed for the crime and running from Richard and his gang of thugs. But do not think Liu will give up without a fight!!!! He meets a prostitute named Jessica (Bridget Fonda) who was a witness to the murder. Liu and Jessica team up together to clear Liu's name, get Jessica out of prostitution and to rescue Jessica's daughter from the clutches of the evil Richard (sounds like they'll have their hands full).The story is very easy to follow and gives out a small message, and the entire cast give memorable performances, which makes KOD very different to every other kung fu flick. The martial arts sequences are extremely enjoyable with plenty of blood and bone crunching involved, and it is always a pleasure to watch Jet Li kick the ass of every bad guy in this movie. Certainly not for the faint - hearted (or the children), but Kiss Of The Dragon makes for an excellent action movie with a pace that'll have your pulses racing until you collapse.          "},{"Title":"I love this movie!! It's the one that got me hooked on kung-fu flicks!","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"    Before Kiss was placed into American movie theatres, I had already seen a fair share of kung-fu spectacles including the two best martial-art movies ever filmed, Robert Clouse's Enter The Dragon and Ang Lee's Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon. However, I had never actually seen one that had impressed me so much that I had to yell out Whoo-Hoo! in satisfaction as I watched the kick ass choreography unfold right in front of my eyes.  Maybe that day I was just in the right mood to see a really great action movie, but I honestly hadn't seen such a highly-enjoyable and violent hard core martial-art picture since Steven Seagal whooped major arse in John Flynn's Out For Justice. There's just something about watching Mr. Li quickly press steaming hot irons onto the faces of his would-be assassins that gives me such a big grin.  Kiss of the Dragon doesn't really have much of a story, but who really watches these movies for their stories anyway? The basic premise is that a highly-trained cop from Hong Kong is given the job to assist a corrupt French policeman named Richard (Tcheky Karyo in overacting mode) arrest a major crime kingpin. However, Karyo kills the criminal and places the blame on Li's character, sending him on the run from the authorities and out to clear his name.   Li's Liu Jian stumbles upon one of Richard's prostitutes, Jessica (Bridget Fonda), who happens to be the one and only murder witness, and two build a friendship that climaxes into one can only guess into a couple relationship (the film's ending is ambiguous). Along the way, they have a few rough meetings with Richard's henchmen and with Jessica's pimp. It is here where Li and his longtime collaborator, action choreographer, Corey Yuen, unleash hell!!  Yuen, director of The Legend 1 & 2, has staged action scenes for Romeo Must Die, Lethal Weapon 4, X-Men and Li's latest The One. Yet, here he keeps Li's feet on the ground and creates the best kung-fu fight scenes since Yuen Woo Ping directed Li's action in the classic movie Fist of Legend. This is where my interest in kung-fu peaked and I've been to video stores several times since then selecting all sorts of titles (over 60) including the classics.  Forget Li's other stateside work, action lovers should stick to Kiss since it's the best of his American pictures so far. The film will be out on DVD later in January and although Fox decided not to release a two-disc set, I'll still be picking it up for the 5.1 digital soundtrack and Li and Fonda commentary. As for the movie itself, I'd give it a rating of 3 out of 4 stars. If you haven't seen it, be sure to check it out, you'll love it.       "},{"Title":"Done before, and much better.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Last seen in 'Romeo Must Die', Jet Li is back (albeit in the UK a year after release) with his new self-penned vehicle, 'Kiss of the Dragon'.From the outset of the film it's hard to take the story seriously - we are presented with Li's character who for some reason has come to Paris to sort out some 'problem' for the French secret police force... but due to a poor introduction of the films villian (a senior detective), we're left wondering whether Li is in on the swizz, oblivious, or simply doesn't care either way. He is then thrown into a patsy role (I never really understood why his 'victim' was killed in the first place), and in the ensuing carnage a down-at-heel prostitue (oh, also a heroin addict *yawn*) played by Bridget Fonda get's caught up in the web. Fonda tries to make the best of a bad script, but it doesn't quite happen, and her character soon becomes a hinderance to any scene she appears in.There are some small strokes of good storytelling howerver - Li's character's use of acupuncture pins (handily kept in a wrist pack) to adminster both pain, pleasure, and anything in between. An elderly chinese gentleman's shop (in amongst the red-light district of Paris) acting as a safehouse for Li's character. Huge white-haired Parisian kick-boxing twins. With some work, a little background could have been built up for these motifs/characters, but unfortunately they're never fully explained.From the stunts throughout the film it's apparent that Li fancies himself as a successor to Hollywood's current resident Martial Arts luvvy, Jackie Chan. Li has the skills without a doubt, but he lacks the timing and humour that has endeared Chan to the movie mainstream. Perhaps with time Li will learn to crack a smile, but with all the macho posteuring, I think the humour is someway in the future... which is unfortunate, as Chan has maybe 2 or 3 films left in him before retirement ... enough time for someone with more acting ability to come along and steal Li's thunder.Summary -This has been done before, and unfortunately much better... I'd say at best this is 'Romeo Must Die's poorer brother and at worst an excersise on how to keep your audience in their seats with the promise of 2 good fights. If for some reason you decide to pay money to go see this film after this review, you'll see what I mean. 3/10. "},{"Title":"A European Martial Arts movie with Hollywood plot-holes","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li's ability is a sheer delight to watch in this movie and throughout all his movies.  He doesn't have the charm of a Jackie Chan, but there is something in all his Wu-Shu type moves and the smile he gives that says this guy is a winner.Like all Hong Kong movies stars crossing over to Hollywood, Li's had a pretty hard time getting meaty stories and well deserved action films that really shadow his talents and abilities.It solves some of the major problems that Romeo Must Die had, and it answered the questions and demands of Li die-hard fans to get back to the style he is famed for.  And how he answers it.  Kiss of the Dragon is a brutal, dark and deep martial arts movie, but unfortuently it has lots of Hollywood plot-holes and the taste of cliched ridden story.But all that is forgotten, the martial arts is excellent, the action brilliant...even Kato, Burt Kweok from those old Pink Panther movies is in this!  Its a shame that Bridget Fonda speaks too much and Li speaks too little.* MINOR SPOILER *Other problems come from the end, Li is meant to be a cop, and plays by the laws of the land he's in - so why does he kill the main bad guy? Shouldn't he arrest him?* END SPOILER *Overall the movie is enjoyable to watch, Jackie Chan fans may draw comparisions with Kiss of the Dragon with Jackie's tv-movie, Who Am I? as it has many of the same ideas of conspiracy, dark martial arts, and an exquisitve two-on-one fight end, although to be honest, Who Am I? has a better end fight than Kiss of the Dragon.Enjoyable, but in the land of kung fu movies, perhaps only memorable for the brutal ending of the main bad guy, and the end two-on-one fight.My Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Jet li at his best .","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As i said, jet li at his best. Nice movie, but with a slightly thin storyline (but i didn't expect a fair drama though) Written partly by my favorite director ...luc besson, quite noticeable though. Credits must also go to the director (Chris Nahon) , making this movie as your first movie ever is a great earning !!Last but not least, credits to this crazy french guy (Tchéky Karyo)from bad boys (fouchet) ...i really like the creepy types he plays so well!although i really like this movie ....i still wouldn't want a kiss of the dragon though (you'll understand after seeing the movie)Germy  "},{"Title":"Action packed but was all the graphic detail necessary?","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am not a lover of martial arts films but this felt more like a seedy and violent 007 epic. Not much plot (similar to Bond films); plenty of action (similar to Bond films); a damsel (although a prostitute)in distress (similar to Bond films). Jet Li is a likeable hero, with more physical ammunition than a battalion, but did this movie really need such gratuitous violence? I thought Sam Peckinpah was dead, but even he would have swallowed hard at some of these stunts. Breaking necks and assaulting throats with chopsticks ( not to mention the final painful death served up to the baddie) seemed a bit over the top to me, but I was entertained, nonetheless. I think that my imagination could have sufficed, however, without the need for the gruesome outcomes of most of the punch-ups (or are they feet-ups?). For instance, aren't we all happy with the way Bond deals with his adversaries, without having to see him inspect their dead bodies? I suppose this is what martial arts films must be all about. I did enjoy Bridget Fonda and whatshisname as the villainous Inspector. An enjoyable but stomach-churning experience. "},{"Title":"pecs of death...","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the best Jet Li films i've seen for some time, and it certainly surpasses Romeo Must Die. The martial arts performed by Jet Li and numerous others were second to none, just the best.As for holes in the storyline, does that matter? the action surpassed the storyline in my opinion.Full 10. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly great","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie shows us why Jet Li is the bonafide martial arts superstar.  With the right people behind the movie's production, maybe I shouldn't be so surprised that I actually found this film to be slick, exhilirating, and VERY STYLISH (much like La Femme Nikita).  I walked out from the theatre satisfied and entertained.  Thanks to Luc Besson, the movie also gets Thierry Arbogast, who is a GREAT technician when it comes to creating the saturated atmosphere.  This movie, essentially Jet Li with a touch of French vanilla flavour, turns out to be a surprising winner in my jaded film logbook.Sure the movie has plot holes and some unintentionally hilarious continuity problems that will leave some of us scratching heads.  But in the end I didn't care; this movie is so stylish-looking and well-acted, sometimes I forgot I was watching a martial arts flick.  Great fight scenes, especially at the end where Li's character uses cramped office space to his advantage (a very smart move).  To my delightful surprise, Bridget Fonda gave a stellar effort, because she didn't put on lazy acting as if it's just another film project that pays her money - big kudos to her.  Jet Li proved to everyone that with the right movie material, he can show that he is rarity among martial arts actors since Li can act pretty well, which helps the audience to sympathize with Li's character.  Karyo's character is made too obviously evil from the beginning, but never mind that - he is so much fun to watch.  It's great to see that Li and Fonda do show strong on-screen chemistry, because after all I never expected so much quality from any martial arts movies.  All in all, not since Fist of Legend or Once Upon a Time in China II did I felt this good about watching Li in action.  Very nice effort!!!  "},{"Title":"Lee -- Chan -- Li; full circle?","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps we have come back to where we started as Jet Li takes up the mantle of the great Oriental martial arts heroes.Li is excellent in his role as the police officer who has come to France to assist the Police in Paris with a conspiracy.  Things turn sour for him, and, along with the excellent Fonda who gets better by the film he has to take control and investigate for himself or lose his own life.Well directed and with some brilliantly choreographed action scenes, this is definitely one to see. "},{"Title":"Fast-paced, but empty actioner!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Watched it yesterday together with my girlfriend at the cinema. My chick liked it quite well, however she hasn´t seen one of Jet Li´s original Hong Kong-movies like the marvelous Once upon a time in China for example..! And exactly this is the point Kiss of the Dragon contains fast-paced, adrenaline-pushing and quite entertaining martial arts-action, however in comparison to Li´s elder films the excitement and the brilliance of his fighting performances is nearly totally missing!! But this film has got even more weaknesses like this great Bridget Fonda is quite wasted, here immense talent is absolutely not fully stretched by playing the nice and good-natured prostitute! Villain Tchéky Karyo is repeating his bad guy-part that we have seen in the French Dobermann before, although his appearance is one of the highlights in this film. Another one is the cast of Burt Kwouk, who became well-known with the Pink Panther-movies. If you like mainstream action movies - go and see this!! Or better Check out some old old Jet Li-flicks at your local video store..! "},{"Title":"Formula plot, but quite original with the violence.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this with 20 other reviewers (including Barry Norman! name-drop, name-drop), and it was funny how everyone (including me) winced and grimaced at some of the action - the guy in the laundry chute, the guys in the kitchen, the black guy in the shop - and especially the two henchmen in the end fight. I'm not joking - everyone gasped, groaned, winced at how those last two fights ended!  Very unusual (in a Hollywood movie anyway).  Then we were all watching the last bit through our fingers, as it almost veers off into Clive Barker territory..But a solid action film, despite the Bridget Fonda nonsense (she's only in this to 'broaden the appeal' to non-martial arts fans). "},{"Title":"Hard-core Martial Arts","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of all the movies I've ever watched on the big screen, there've only been two that kept the audience audibly gasping in excitedment on every single action sequence.  The first was Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.  The other was Kiss of the Dragon (K.O.D.).After the success of The Matrix, fantastic wire-fu action scenes have become trendy in Hollywood.  Kiss of the Dragon is Jet Li's attempt to buck the trend.  The movie features no wires, no flying nor floating, and no special effects at all.  In fact, there's noticeably *less* grace in this movie that typical Jet Li or Jackie Chan movies.  The fight sequences do not resemble those graceful ballet-like choreographs at all.  Rather, every action sequence is purposely brutal in its portrayal.  You see cringe-inducing hits and hear bone-crushing kicks.  People cough up blood. It's exciting, but definitely not pretty.The storyline is fairly decent --- it's serviceable enough for an action flick.  The movie's tone is dark and somber.  Jet Li plays an emotionally repressed Chinese Agent sent to help local police investigate an international drug cartel.  Tcheky Karyo, as the bad guy, is superb in this movie.  He is so over-the-top, you begin to suspect he is probably insane.Unfortunately, it's Bridgette Fonda's character that ruins the entire film. Fonda's portrayal of the prostitute can best be described as annoying and whiny at best.  She has no chemistry with anyone at all, especially Jet Li.  It's a classic example of an actress phoning in her perforamance. Often times, her character is so grinding that you'll just be waiting for her to get off the screen.  Part of the problem is Fonda's performance. However, most of the blame goes to the writers themselves.  They're like junior high boys attempting to write a role for a woman.  It's the same writer (Kamen) that wrote Karate Kid and 5th Element.  Those movies are decent in their own right... but believable female roles is definitely not the writer's area of expertise. (and that's an understatement)Overall, I'll rate Kiss of the Dragon  7 out of 10.  The short length and the superb action sequences keep the focus away from the mediocre plot. This is an example of one movie where the fast pacing of a 90-minute movie helped minimize the script and performance flaws.  "},{"Title":"Jet Li shows some nice moves, too bad you can't see 'em....","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All in all a nice action flick, a dark atmosphere and some nice villains, who obviously must die by the hand of the Jet. What is wrong about this movie is the way it is filmed, you can see Jet Li throwing some moves, but you can't see them right!! What a waste, the camera is too close, the shots are too short, it looks like MTV sometimes. Still this movie outranks the abysmal 'Romeo must die', so you could say Jet Li's non-asian movies are getting better. If you want to see Jet Li doing some nice moves in a western movie, check out Lethal Weapon 4, that movie isn't very good either but at least it allows you to see what Jet Li can do. Hopefully 'the One' will get it right in being a decent action flick directed by someone who knows how to film martial arts scenes.  "},{"Title":"Kiss of the Dragon... Kiss My Ass!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That line as uttered by Richard the baddie after Jet Li's character told him he had been *Kissed* by the dragon was an instant classic!!  Tcheky Karyo was a brilliant over the top villain!Now that's out of the way, My thoughts on the movie... First the story, It was above average for an action film, but I wont dwell on that because let's face it, No one goes to an action/martial arts film solely for the story.  With that in mind, I will focus my comments on the action and martial arts sequences.On the whole, the movie had a dark sort of feel toward it and thus not as upbeat as Jet's previous Hollywood outing,  Romeo must die . The fight scenes were a welcome change to the wirefu seen in *Romeo must Die* and *Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon* and were grounded in reality, with Jet using various martial arts techniques modified for street fighting. This movie in terms of fighting would have been first rate if it weren't for the shoddy camera work and editing during most of the fights.Western directors MUST learn to pull back the camera and stop using those fast cut MTV style editing when it comes to shooting martial arts fight sequences.  The first rule of shooting a martial arts scene,especially when the actor is also a talented martial artist, is to pull the camera back and shoot it with a wide angle with longer takes and not to do so many close ups with excessively fast cutting of scenes to the point where the whole body cannot be seen and consequently the FUlL  power, grace and the execution of the technique is lost to the audience.  But even with this flaw, the fight scenes still manage to be very entertaining, My personal favourites are The Dojo fight (where Jet utilises Fillipino Escrima stick fighting) and the fight with the 2 albino twins where Jet outnumbered and outsized by his opponents, uses his environment and his speed to defeat them. Those two fights in particular even though they are choreographed, look very REAL and are as hardcore as they come!Overall, Kiss of the Dragon is a decent action film with good action set pieces but due to the haphazard editing, The film cannot be used as a true showcase of Jet's Skill.  One would have to go back to his earlier work in Hong Kong for that.  "},{"Title":"A great action film","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is a great action film, notice I put action in quotation.  The action is terrific but as for the plot, so boring and flat. Not much of a storyline and that is the problem with Jet Li films.  They have great action scenes but as for the plot its rather plain and I have seen alot of Jet Li films.  The fighting scenes are more ruthless and violent than those in a Jackie Chan flicks for example blood shooting everywhere and breaking necks, but the true  difference between Jet and Jackie flicks are that in Jackie films it has a great plot and you aren't praying and praying for another action scene to pop up on the screen, you are just enjoying the picture and in Jet Li's you have to sit through a boring story line but innovative kung fu.  So if you want to see a great action movie watch this, but if you want to see a kung fu movie with great fighting scenes than watch a Jackie Chan movie. "},{"Title":"Entertaining solely for its action sequences!","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As an action movie, KOD is very entertaining. I agree, however, with many critics that the movie needed a better script. Also, Jet Li acting is too stiff as a board and there never is any chemistry between him and Fonda's character. Some of Fonda's lines are excessively overbearing and wear down the movie.  The action scenes are great, however. The hardcore violence is very entertaining. I like the fact that the bad guys are Frenchmen and that the setting is in Paris.Enjoy this movie for Jet Li's fighting skills, but do not expect a great plot and script. "},{"Title":"Nikita/KOD cut and paste","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***********SPOILERS**************If you are comparing KOD to previous Jet Li films it will seem like a quantum leap. In terms of style and content, set-design, make-up, acting, even make-up, in almost every aspect it speaks to on a higher level than his work before. However, if you have seen Luc Besson's work, in particular Nikita, then you will know that this new Jet Li is really just old Luc Besson.Marc Barr, who played the dolphin boy in Besson's Big Blue, once said in an interview that Luc was self-cannibalistic, that is, he just makes the same movie year after year. But, I say, So what? If he does it better than anyone else why not keep truckin the stuff out.This film is amazing - in itself, as a Jet Li experience to surpass all Jet Li experiences, both in terms of giving us one helluva ride and also in giving us a Jet Li with complex emotions and who does the subtle things just right in those scenes with Fonda and with the old shopkeeper that he is finally as compelling to watch acting as when he's doing his wushu moves, remarkable for a Jet Li movie because this kind of scene, ie. non-fighting and especially anything remotely intimate, though not necessarily romantic, usually flops for him IMHO. Credit the Besson touch again, he knows how soft to go without fluffing it and how hard to go without bringing it all down.BUT if you watch it with Nikita in mind, KOD then tunnels out of itself and it becomes a fascinating alternate-universe. What Besson et al have done with KOD is create a variation on a theme of Nikita. Maybe to some this is another way of calling it a rehash, but I don't think so.It's like listening to a fugue unfold into different keys, different voices. The fugue is an example of how you can have something recurring that isn't boring. So we see the recurring set design, similar set peices, and the same city, Paris- all photographed again by the same man, Thierry Arbogast (who probably enjoyed returning to this scale after the mega-projects, The 5th Element and The Messenger - Besson at this stage probably felt he needed to return to his roots too, though perhaps not as director - doing Nikita again would not have been challenging enough for him, to say the least).We also see Tchéky Karyo and Fonda again, their roles are all rearranged in a delightfully discordant way - Karyo is still a cop but now a villain, Fonda is not Nikita but Karyo is her devil, but she has her soul, or at any rate more soul than that robot that she played in Point of No Return. And though Anne Parillaud is not here, throughout this movie there are scenes where I see the ghost of Nikita shadowing Jet Li's every move (when Jet Li discovers the bars blocking the window, I see the image of her frantically pounding the bricked window - some intense acting on Anne's part, having to show shock and disbelief at the discovery of the unexpected, then utter devastation at the unthinkable of being shafted by her mentor, before pulling herself together, and swiftly recovering her killer instinct, the will to kill her way out - Jet Li has a less demanding role in this respect, his responses rarely have to be this complicated thanks to physical skill and mastery over the environment).One funny thing both Anne and Jet Li get to do is kiss Tchéky Karyo. There are other moments of intersection but this one's pretty wild. Nikita kisses him goodbye, Jet Li kisses him goodbye. In Nikita, Tchéky receives the kiss ambivalently because it is the first from her and also the last, as she promptly informs him afterwards. It had taken him years of longing and self-repression to reach this moment, and when it finally comes, he is told nothing is possible after it. The painful look on his eyes as she closes the door in face, he's almost bleeding at the eyes. Can this guy act or what? He stands in the corridor almost in convulsions, the gutted Svengali, split apart by the ecstacy of attaining what he'd been longing for and the agony of having it vanish in a second.In KOD Jet Li's acupuncture kiss also leaves Tchéky in convulsions, it physically causes the blood to go to his head. Isn't falling in love metaphorically described as the heart going to the head?A real treat for Jet Li and Luc Besson fans, something radically harder and yet subtler for the former, while for the latter it is good to see Besson and the gang together. "}{"Title":"An action thriller that features Li's return to form.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *** out of ****After the disappointing Romeo Must Die it's great to see Jet Li back in ass-kicking form in Kiss of the Dragon, a movie that features a story that doesn't always make a whole lot of sense but features martial arts fights that rank among Li's best.  The movie improves considerably on the mistakes made in Romeo and is a thrill ride that moves at a consistently good pace.Li plays a Chinese intelligence officer on a mission in Paris.  He's been assigned to work with a French officer named Richard (Tcheky Karyo), who's obviously corrupt and also calls Li by John since he can't pronounce his real name.  Anyway, their assignment involves busting a drug kingpin, but everything goes horribly wrong when the crime lord is killed and Richard pins the fault on John.  Thus, John goes on the run in a city he's unfamiliar with; he has almost no allies and is being chased after by the police and Richard's countless cronies.He meets a prostitute named Jessica (Bridget Fonda) inside a restaurant, and a mutual friendship begins to develop between them.  It's also by chance he discovers that she was a witness to the kingpin's murder and can clear his name.  But she's reluctant to help him because Richard has her daughter, which is the only reason she continues this demeaning job in the first place.  As Richard and his men begin to pin them down, John prepares to fight back with all his skills and strengths and retrieve Jessica's daughter safely.From the get-go, there's a fault in the story.  There's simply no good explanation given as to why Richard actually had the kingpin killed in the first place.  My own assumption would be that they were working together and this led to the possibility of his corruption being revealed.  That's as good as any guess, I suppose.  Luc Besson's script isn't particularly distinguished, but hey, at least it's more comprehensible than the Romeo Must Die's plot, a move which I will probably refer to many times in this review.Not only is that element improved upon from that film, but Li is actually given a hell of a lot more screen time and the fact that everybody seems to be after him gives the movie a more frenetic pace.  That's not to say that Kiss of the Dragon is a lightning-paced film.  After an exhilarating opening fight sequence inside a hotel that features Li using props a la Jackie Chan style, the movie does slow down considerably.But to compensate for this pace is an interesting relationship that forms when Bridget Fonda enters the picture.  True, this isn't the most well-written role the actress has had (well, then again, she's not really give many well-written roles in the first place, is she?) but her performance is good, and the chemistry that clicks between her and Li is strong, and even sometimes sweet and touching.  Some see the lack of an actual romance blossoming between them as another sign that Hollywood isn't much for interracial couples (much like in Romeo Must Die) but I think it's better this way.  Plus, I'm getting tired of seeing the hero bed the heroine in an impulsive moment of passion.  Fonda and Li's quiet communication and toned-down feelings are more effective than a kiss or love scene would be. Of course, there are the obligatory moments of cheesy dialogue when she says to him that all he cares about is himself, but the fight scenes kick in before any of this can significantly hinder the film.Speaking of the action scenes, they are supremely exciting.  I'm not sure if director Chris Nahon was in charge of the choregraphy, but if he was, this is very impressive.  First of all, there's no wirework, or at least none that I noticed, so there's a feeling of authenticity in all the fight scenes.  The film's best action sequence is Li's two-on-one fight with the blonde brothers in the finale who, I must say, also display some very impressive martial arts moves (Can Li even do flips like that one blonde guy does?).  I've seen several of Li's other films and these fights on par with his Hong Kong work, if not better than some.  The only real complaint I have with the fight scenes is that some of the camera movements are too quick, making it sometimes a little difficult to make out a couple of Li's impressive moves.  But it's a problem that thankfully doesn't permeate the film.The action is also very bloody and graphically violent.  An early scene with a man being literally blown in half by a grenade let's us know that isn't a family-friendly Jackie Chan film.  When someone gets hit, they bleed and they bleed a lot.  (Minor Spoiler here)  Tcheky Karyo's death scene is perhaps the film's bloody highlight; he bleeds from every orifice on his face until he dies in a frenzy of spasmatic twitching.What can be seen as a flaw in the film is in some of its settings.  Those who think present-day Paris is nothing but a beautiful city will be unpleasantly surprised by Kiss of the Dragon, which almost exclusively focuses on the grungy and seedy side of society in the city.  Seeing Fonda in a mess of sweat and dirt in a filthy allieway isn't a fun sight.As I said before, Fonda is good, and so is Li, who can actually act, unlike so many big-time action stars around.  The quiet intensity he displays says more than any dialogue that spews out from Steven Seagal or Jean-Claude Van Damme.  Tcheky Karyo is so snaky and disgustingly vile in his role, everybody will cheer for his death (well, that and the fact that some people in the audience couldn't stop proclaiming how gross his death was).The actual Kiss of the Dragon the movie's title refers to is a form of Chinese acupuncture, a method that Li uses in the film can put people to sleep or give a very bloody death.  It's not mentioned as often in the film as I thought it would and neither is it extremely significant to the plot, but who cares?  This film's all about the action and I'm certainly not complaining when it comes to that.  It's funny to see that from the so many lackluster blockbuster films of the past summer two of the best have its roots in Hong-Kong filmmaking (the other such film is Tsui Hark's Time and Tide).  "},{"Title":"A Good Example Of An Action Movie","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow. I love Jet Li's movies, and this one was, by sheer action scene value, definitely worth seeing.I'd say this movie was a good - very good - example of an Action Movie. I say *an* Action Movie because the movie had a lot of action scenes combined in more or less logical way to produce an entertaining whole. If you want to make an Action Movie that has enough action and you don't want to bore your audience, see this movie and then work on that.Yet, I'm not saying the movie was THE Action Movie. The plot wasn't too original, yet it was definitely interesting enough. Somewhat clichéd, but I think they had picked up the right ones this time.All in all, the movie was definitely entertaining enough if you want to see a good action movie - but if you want Great Action Movies that have lasting value, you know where to find them, and this is not it. "},{"Title":"soooooo close...","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this movie considering it was made by Luc Besson-known for very effective and fast action sequences,and knowing it would be much better than Jets worst movie romeo must die.What I liked most about this movie was that the fights finally have a hong-kong feel to them unlike most american kungfu flics,although the camera is way too close sometimes. Jet Li proved once again that he has enough charisma to be considered the next Bruce Lee(except once again for Romeo where he looked like a total dork). Kayro once again gave an outstanding performance, but Bridget Fonda was APPALLING! Her sidestory distracted too much from the main plot and was in my humble opinion very boring..This is the type of movie that should have concentrated 99% on the action and 1% everything else,example John Woo's Hard Boiled. But here we have 45% action, 55% Bridget moaning and groaning and going on about how life is unfair and her daughter. But all in all this is a pretty good flic,it is well worth seeing for the action sequences alone,like I said at the beginning,Jet is finally coming back to his roots,lets just hope he doesn't make more movies like Romeo must die,movies in which the fights are so heavily edited and enhanced by computer fx that the main star might just as well be John Goodman. But to be honest I expected much more from Luc Besson... "},{"Title":"Rousing and adrenaline pumping!","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   This movie simply rocks. It perfectly embodies a gritty, street fighter-esque picture. The action scenes are absolutely amazing and a blast to watch. The plot is pretty good (not spectacular but definitely above average for an action film) and despite what some may say, Jet Li can do pretty good drama. Even though Bridget Fonda comes off as a weak, cry baby as she overacts her way through the movie, it adds another dimension to the action scenes to make them so exciting. This movie is for any action fan mild or extreme. Your heart will race, your jaw will drop, and you'll simply love this movie. "},{"Title":"A Fair Action-Movie but cheesy in some ways","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li is back in this new action movie, that beats Romeo Must Die. The plot is ok, for an martial arts movie and with its rather simple plot, Jet Li gets to kill a lot of bad guys, once again.  The movie is entertaining but I would have expected more from writer Luc Besson. It's beautiful shot and the fight scenes are quite cool, but also cheesy at some points. Jet Li is no great actor, which I think is why he always plays a silent killer. This is also here the movie fails, but he is fantastic in martial arts, kung fu, etc., but since this just isn't enough in an action movie it becomes stupid at some points. In overall I think it's entertaining, but sometimes cheesy in certain ways, like the acting and the fight scenes. 6,5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Hard boiled European/Asian blend","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had my hopes relatively high when I went to a cinema to watch this yesterday. When I came back out, I was filled with awe. This movie is what should've been Romeo must die for Jet Li, his definitive western breakthrough. Ok, so the plot wasn't mind stalking but the action sequences made up for it with 220%. And hey, if I want to see a smart movie, I'll just watch Memento again =)So, to sum this up If you're in for action, Kiss of the dragon is an excellent movie. I may warn you that it contains some real over-violence, so sensitive viewers be advised.I give it a 10/10 actionwise and 7/10 as a general "},{"Title":"So close yet so far.","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  At first, it seems Kiss of the Dragon has all the elements needed for a great action movie Talented performers (in both acting or action), great cinematography, beautiful locales, imaginative bad guys, witty script, and plenty of setups for great action scenes.  Yet as a martial arts movie it fails on one all-important level  The filming of the fight scenes!  Chris Nahon and his editor screw up this area badly.  They keep the camera far too close to the action *and* combine it with excessively fast and haphazard editing.  The result is that you can barely see the intricate kung fu choreography in the film.  Consider that for a moment  This is a kung fu movie.  They spent extreme effort choreographing the fights and culled the best fighters from all over Europe.  So what is the first thing the director does?  Obscure the action so you can't tell what's going on!  All you see is a close-up shot of punch then cut to a close-up of a kick.  So why even bother with real martial artists or choreography?  Anybody can look good when filmed this way.  It's enough to make a kung fu fan scream in frustration!  It's not that fast editing or close-ups have no place in kung fu films.  Even Jackie Chan uses them.  But the difference is that Jackie Chan uses them at the right time.  In a Jackie fight scene, you can always tell exactly what's going on, you can always see the important bits of choreography, and the cuts come at logical times, knowing when to allow certain moves to be played out in one continuous shot and when to cut without interrupting the action.  In contrast Nahon seems to cut almost at random.   The action doesn't flow at all.  It has no rhythm.  It is only during the climatic fight that Kiss of the Dragon begin to improve in this area.  There are a few moments during this battle that are as great (in the filmmaking and choreography) as anything Jet Li has done in Hong Kong.  However, this small improvement only serves to emphasize how badly Nahon screwed up all the other fights.  Overall, Kiss of the Dragon is disappointing when you consider how close it was to greatness.  All it needs to be great is for the fight scenes to be re-edited.  I pray that for the DVD release they will do a new edit of the movie and allow an appropriate editor (perhaps an experienced Hong Kong fight editor) to re-assemble the fight scenes, but I'm not holding my breath. "},{"Title":"Surely there must be better.. spoiler?","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can rationalize that some people sadly can't get enough 'action' movies and live for the next stinking Hollywood helicopter scene. What I can't understand is how Brig Fonda does this crap.. and what an unrealistic plot - psycho-cop lets her live past the first ten minutes. Had to walk out on this one. Maybe she needs a new pool and is refusing scripts a la Dan Ackroyd? "},{"Title":"Kiss this one","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is just my favorite movie.  You don't see Jet Li in any of his movie like this before.  This is his most violent movie yet.  His moves are more realistic compared to his previous movie Romeo Must Die.  In this movie, you don't see Jet Li flying in the air, he stays on the ground doing hand-to-hand combat.I recommend this movie to any hardcore action fans, but just don't take you children to see it. "},{"Title":"THEY KILLED KATO!  YOU **S**R*S!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film for two bucks and just got my money's worth.  The film suffers from a identity crisis.  It wants to have kick ass fighting along with real heart tugging emotion.  It is near impossible to have both ,CTHD withstanding.  I was bored during the weepy scenes and almost walked out...The ending is the best part.  My advice is to rent it while doing chores and stop and watch it during the good parts.  AND I DIDN'T LIKE IT CAUSE THEY KILLED KATO.  Bert Kwouk who plays uncle Tai was Kato in the Pink Panther films.  Hasn't the poor man taken enough punisment. "}{"Title":"Brutal adult action fare Loved it.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What is with you people? Don't go to see an action film expecting some Luis Bunuel classic, it's like reading a Tom Clancy novel expecting Tolstoy! To the film. Brutal, adult, action oriented and thoroughly enjoyable.Jet Li's third foray into Western films unexpectedly turned out to be his best film in years. After being underused in `Lethal Weapon 4' and `Romeo Must Die' he is given a starring turn that allows him to use his quiet tough guy to the full, taking his laconic persona, so evident in his Hong Kong films, and transferring them to a European setting. Trust a Frenchman to realize the potential of the Orient. Chris Nahon understands that people going to see a Jet Li film are only there to see one thing Jet Li. Not DMX not Aaliyah, not Mel Gibson. If only Brett Ratner realized everyone went to see `Rush Hour' to see Jackie Chan not Chris Tucker&#133;..Nahon gives us the fight set-ups we so desire at the right moments and allows Jet to show off a harder, brutal fighting style. Taking a leaf from HK cinema Li uses the set dressing for impromptu weaponry throughout the film, for which Yuen Kwai, the choreographer, can take great pride in. Using a more modern style of fighting there is no evidence of wires - greatly appreciated and something I have been looking forward to in a long time. For the run time there was just enough fight scenes &#150; always leave them wanting more but don't starve the audience!!Some reviewers have commented on the characters negatively and to a point I agree they are underwritten. However, Tcheky Karyo is no crazier here than in `Doberman' or as Gary Oldman is in `Leon', so are we to believe that all French policemen are mad? NO, it's a film!! As Jet&#145;s character relies on expression and silent intensity rather than dialogue, thus the antithesis to this is the exuberant psychopathic styling of Karyo. Perhaps they have given Jet less dialogue because of his level of English, if this is so he will need to redress this problem soon to make his transition to Hollywood, as we are unable to fully gauge his acting ability. What we see is the same career hardened, duty and honour bound character that is only unsure of himself when around women in an intimate situation (eg; Hung Hei Kwoon in `New Legend Of Shaolin'). Bridget Fonda pulls off an atypical &#145;hooker with a heart of gold' role and is perfunctory. If you want female characterization watch `Crouching Tiger&#133;' She is purely a plot device giving Jet's character the necessary emotional arc to carry himself through the film and when he is kicking this much a**e who are we to argue?Of the casting there was only one real blight for me and that was the casting of Burt Kwouk and Ric Young. There are many Oriental actors out there so why do they insist on using the same ones? Indeed some of the acting jobs I have done have been basically my version of Burt which begs the question do casting directors really think all Chinese are the same? Ric Young puts another sleazy camp Chinese onto his CV and the sooner he gets less work the better.There have also been comments on the fact that everyone does martial arts. Of course they do it's a martial arts action film. If I remember correctly I believe that martial arts is very popular in France and the police should have unarmed combat training but obviously not to the level of a Chinese policeman thus taking care of that argument. At least this time there are no street thugs who are gung-fu masters. There is no level of self-indulgent stylization of the fighting a'la `The Matrix' and the homage to `Leon's storming of a police station puts the Wachowski's film in the shade. Thankfully there was very little slow motion and in general the impacts and techniques were visible onscreen. For once there were no close-ups of foots in the face without the full shot of the damaging kick. If only Jet Li was in the next `Matrix' sequels.The gunplay is atypical of an action movie and no better or worse than the standard hip-firing fare. I believe that all gunfights should carry a certain level of realism when necessary. I have trained in weapons and martial arts and I didn't really think this film needed it and thankfully there were no continuity errors (see my review of Saving Private Ryan).Overall this is a brutal, well-made, well-paced martial arts action film with a wry sense of humour, showing the Americans how to use a Hong Kong movie star. Jet Li said this was for an R-rated audience and thankfully that is what they have given us. This rates with `Once Upon A Time In China' and `Fist Of Legend' as Jet Li's best. If you like Chinese action films you'll like this. For those other arty types, watch `That Obscure Object Of Desire', my favourite Bunuel. **** 1/2/***** "},{"Title":"No more Romeo","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This one defintely beats the quite dull Rome must Die. Jet Li's performance is excellent, however mr bad guy might be a little well too bad. The manuscript certainly could have needed a little more work..but all in all I say they did the best of it. A little more action tho wouldnt hurt )7-8 / 10 "},{"Title":"If Crouching Tiger can be nominated for Best Picture, then so can this!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning may contain some spoilers.I don't think I have ever gone to a chop socki movie and expected to see the next Titanic or the next American Beauty.  I don't want to see a multi layered, subtle film that has lots of plot twists and turns and characters that surprise me.  What I do want to see is a bunch of guys beating the snot out each other and doing things that they should not be able to do.  I love all the greats in regards to this type of film.  From guys like Chuck Norris, Bruce Lee, Steven Seagal, some JCVD, Jeff Speakman ( anyone ever see The Perfect Weapon? ), Jackie Chan and of course Jet Li.  I have seen every film of Jet's released in North America and every film he amazes me with what he can do.  I don't really see the difference between a film like Crouching Tiger and Kiss of the Dragon.  They are both fun, entertaining films to watch but they are not by any means worthy of Oscar consideration.  but then again, you are talking about a bunch of fossils who think Shakespeare In Love is better than Saving Private Ryan. KOD is nothing but a pure adrenaline rush.  Bridget Fonda is along for the ride and so is the guy from Bad Boys and The Patriot (Tcheky Karyo), but all you really need is Jet Li and you have yourself a great action film.  But perhaps what separates this film from some of the other martial arts films if that in most fight movies, the action sequences are good, really good, but KOD takes some of the fights a step further.  I was amazed at some of the choreography displayed.  Not just by Jet but by some of his opponents.  It is thrilling to see a small man fight two bigger men and watch them fall.  That is exactly what happens when Jet meets two massive blond twins schooled in martial arts.  As they say, the bigger they are, the harder they fall.  And that is true in this case, but not before Jet takes a good beating.The plot, well, who really cares, but Jet Li gets mixed up in some French plot to smuggle heroine and he has to stop the perpetrators.  As I said, the plot is really not the core of the film, even though it was written by Luc Besson.  All you really need to know is that if you enjoy this kind of action, then this is one film that you can't pass up.  It will please even the most skeptical critics.One particularly amusing scene is when Jet walks into a police station to go after the bad guys.  He opens one door to try to escape and buy himself some time and it is there that he finds a room full of black belts practising their karate.  Jet takes his jacket off and invites all of them to bring it on.  This reminded me of a funny scene in Wayne's World when Wayne and Garth open a door and behind it there is a bunch of spies doing a bunch of spy things like climbing walls and fighting.  They close the door and say something to the effect of  I always wanted to see that.  Well in this film, it isn't so much a joke as it is a reality.  It is one of the most impressive fight sequences I have ever seen in any film, with all due respect to Bruce Lee.KOD is not a Martin Scorsese film, nor is it a film by Coppola or Truffaut or Fellinni.  It is a film by Chris Nahon that stars Jet Li.  I couldn't tell you what Nahon has done before this and to be honest I really don't care all that much.  If he continues to make films like this, with a flair for the ridiculous and an eye for action, then I think he will be around for a while.  But what I can tell you is that Li is the best at what he does.  And this is one kick-ass-action film.  There is not much to dislike about it, unless you don't like violence and then I would recommend you stay away.  But if action and chop socki and deceit and betrayal is what you crave, then go see KOD.8.5 out of 10-- Some excellent action and fighting scenes make this one a great summer flick. "},{"Title":"KISS THIS JACKIE CHAN!!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  KISS OF THE DRAGON is one terrific slam-bang,kick-ass kung fu action movie that reminded me in some ways of the great 1975 Jimmy Wang Yu kickfest THE MAN FROM HONG KONG taking as it does the premise of a Chinese cop using his awesome skills to survive in a foreign city,here Paris as opposed to Sydney in the Wang Yu movie. Jet Li in his third US movie again plays credible and hard and does not compromise his great ability in the martial arts by use of embarrassing buffoonery as Jackie Chan has chosen to do(particularly in RUSH HOUR and its sequel).Li engages in a long series of well choreographed fight scenes against a variety of foes including a lone fight against a gymful of karate students(another nod to THE MAN FROM HONG KONG)and faces a particularly nasty villain in the form of the excellent Tcheky Karyo who is on peak form here. There are flaws in this movie however.The story is weak and derivative, the dialogue mostly sucks and heroine Bridget Fonda is just there so Jet can have a woman to protect.Nevertheless this movie is an action lover's wet dream and bodes well for future Hollywood Jet Li projects.  Hopefully his popularity will soar above that of the aging and easily studio manipulated Jackie Chan.One cannot imagine Li selling himself out in the way that Chan has and I follow his career with interest. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie didn't know what it wanted to be. Look, we all know what we're getting into with most action movies. They're like porn, the plot is just there to string together the action sequences into some semblance of a story. Basically, the audience wants Jet Li kicking ass in various ways for two hours. Sure, have the other fluff to, as they say, cleanse the palette, but make sure the meal is served.Too much time was spent trying to develop and band-aid a two-bit plot. If they had something more interesting, it may have been worth the effort. This plot wasn't. Basically it's a really bad guy that everyone thinks is a really good guy except for a few (including Li). Fonda comes in as a hooker with a heart of gold (never heard that one before) whose kid has been kidnapped by the evil Frenchie. Sounds stupid? Yes, but who cares? Again, we're watching this for the action. And unfortunately, that's where the movie ultimately fails. There's just too many long sequences where Li isn't fighting. That being said, when there are action scenes, they're pretty damn good. There's one scene where Li takes on a whole class of black-belt students. Get this, a class of black-belt students in a police station. Why are they there? WHO CARES?!?!? It's just fun to watch Li beat up a couple dozen guys.Bottom line not nearly enough depth to be considered a film, not enough action to satisfy the craving for an action moviegoer. Keep it simple, stupid.5.5/10  "},{"Title":"Jet Li is magnificent","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have been a fan of his since I was, like, 6 or so. And it's really not hard to imagine why he has the moves and the charisma to boot. In Kiss of the Dragon, he is absolutely magnificent. Then again, he *is* the movie. KOD contains some great action sequences and very brutal bloodshed, and of course, there's Jet Li flaunting his kong fu skills, being as graceful as ever. The characters though, are really very one-dimensional. There is no ambiguity in them at all; the bad guy is the bad guy, the good guy the good guy, period. But it's an action movie, nobody expects any depth in the characters. KOD is perhaps filmed to entertain, and I guess that's all I should expect from it be entertained, and nothing more. And yes, I was entertained, and very much so.So, did I mention how magnificent Jet Li is? He is great. Great great great.  "},{"Title":"Great action, and nothing else.....","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"      I will be honest and say that I did enjoy Romeo Must Die.  It was entertaining, with some decent action sequences.  But none of them are nearly as intense, well choreographed or as fast as the ones in Kiss of the Dragon.  This movie has absolutely excellent action sequences.  I was hoping for that and it delivered.  It isn't as good a Bruce Lee movie, but its as close as I've had the fortune to see.  However, action aside, everything else was awful.  The script was horrible.  The characters were quite standard, for instance the bad guys were totally horrible without a redeeming quality, and the good guy is pure and honest, and gets into a lot of trouble.  The acting is at times laugh aloud bad.  I went to see it for the action, however, so I turned my brain off and enjoyed.  If you can just watch this movie, not question anything and enjoy the absolutely stunning fighting of Jet Li, then give it a watch.  7 out of 10, purely for the action. "},{"Title":"Good one","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This one do not involve much wiring and no exaggerating moves. I believe this one is Mr Li best. It seems that the story lack the taste, beside more than gun fighting, the movie do not have its inner strength. The action sequence and fighting scene is the best.Well done. "},{"Title":"TOTALLY AWESOME!!!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i think itz a really really really really goood film, i saw it 3 times n' still not bored. Jet Li is a really good fighter, his moves are quick n' sharp, fights really well. the film is excellent, well directed, n' he's very good lookin!!! "},{"Title":"The Form of Lightning","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It should be expected that KISS OF THE DRAGON, an 'action' film as it's called, would be reviewed by mostly dolts disappointed in Jet Li's lack of beautiful balletic killing. There's no attempt in this movie to make anything Jet Li does seem pretty, or picturesque. Slow-motion is a cliche of the genre, and the fact is that real martial artists move at accelerated paces; quickness and precision is everything, and even withLi's blinding speed, I didn't have trouble following his fights' progressions, with Li's obvious skill revealing, REALISTICALLY (as possible for a movie), what is involved when there is hand-to-hand. Li doesn't even use a gun, a feat that says something about Li's personal philosophy on violence.Li isn't a superhuman, though he does perform acts that may appear inhuman. His well-publicized sequence with the roomful of karate cats with batons and Li's wiping floor of said, is not so absolutely impossible. If Li is so much more superior in his reflexes and skill, and these guys are just a bunch of training dummies of the French police, then it isn't out of the question that Li could do what he does. Many hardcore kung-fu movie fans, or critics, always point out that the single hero fighter takes on armies of enemies, and yet each of these attackers will advance one-by-one, getting their teeth and bones shattered in the process. This does not necessarily happen in Li's film, and again, there is a realism to the scene lent by Li's expertise. He knows it takes mere seconds for the skilled fighter, with technique, to oust some clumsy thug. Obviously it's a given that Li couldn't walk out of the room in one piece, but this isn't reality all the way. Just a facsimile.I'd also like to point out that Bridget Fonda is playing a tough role here, but she plays it like I think she meant to it's the film's disgust, coming from Fonda, the screenwriter Besson, or the director, with Hollywood as it is obsessed with hookers with hearts of gold; young actresses have been winning Oscars because frankly hookers are the only parts being written for them. WithHollywood's frantic avoidance of actual SEX in their movies, it's interesting that there are so many hooker stories which devalue the power ofbeautiful women while supposedly making them more real.Fonda isn't attractive in the role, but you know she's beautiful. Somewhere under the oily mess of her make-up and hair is the woman whom Li's character is pulled in by. He's not attracted to her, but he knows what she is, truly, as a woman, a young mother. There's a lot happening between Li and Fonda, because he's a professional Chinese agent and she's supposed to be sympathized with as a junkie hooker-slave; the two don't fall into the melodramatic tiger trap however, and whatever sensuality between them is redirected Li has seen enough brutality and gore, and he wants to stop what is happening to Fonda, her lifestyle that has buried the beautiful woman and the child she loves so much that she agrees to hook on the streets for the odious corrupt Inspector Richard in order to keep the child safe.This is an idea that gives power to everything that happens in the film. If one goes in not understanding that saving a beautiful woman and her child is not worth dying for, then one will not perceive the theme and miss out on the whys of Li's character. He's the consummate professional, outstanding in his dedication, emotionally detached, and then when his professional world crashes in, and he encounters this woman, things change. That's what Li's face says, in the very last scene, when the camera lingers on his bruised, cut visage, and he's simply stopped, thinking that everything he's known is changed. It's this one scene, barely noticed, which tells everything about Li that we don't learn in the film itself. Whatever he was, to that point, is gone. And the movie is over.Best film I've seen in 2001, by far.   "}{"Title":"Jet Li rules!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     I have seen only two of Jet Li's movies, and I plan to see some more of his work in the near future.  Jet Li is almost like a Bruce Lee for the young generation.  You could say he's the Bruce Lee incarnate!  But none of the martial artists of today as cool as they are, can hold a candle to Bruce Lee.  In Kiss of the Dragon he goes to France and helps out a prostitute who's being chased by an evil pimp and his henchmen.   Jet Li really rocks in this movie, I love his slick karate moves he uses on any bad guy who stands in his way.  I loved the part where Jet Li took on a bunch of men who were armed with sticks, and Jet was the only one standing afterwards!     The only things I didn't like about this movie was that the plot was inconceivable and Bridget Fonda's character.  She acted like a total wimp in this movie, and kept getting beat up.  In the past Bridget Fonda has played some tough female leads (does Point of No Return ring a bell?)  And what was the point of having her character, a prostitute have a daughter?   I would've liked this movie a lot more if they hadn't made Bridget Fonda's character a wimpy prostitute.  Why couldn't the writers have her play a detective who's assigned with Jet Li's character and she's just as good a karate expert as he is.  And they work together to take down the pimp who's kidnapped her daughter?  At least it would've had a plot if it had been written out that way.   Other than that, Kiss of the Dragon is an excellent martial arts film for Jet Li fans and the like.  It's also a great justice movie, too.  So go see Kiss of the Dragon, but ignore Bridget Fonda's character as much as possible.  I give it 3 stars.  "},{"Title":"Not clean, but worthwhile","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love a good martial arts movie.  That's why it is so frustrating to see a person with the speed, power, and talent of Jet Li to have to fall into the same style of American martial arts movies traps.  Why is it that in the United States, it's so hard to get a clean camera angle on a fight?  Why all the close ups or hard to see angles?  By all accounts, the fight scenes are still decent and worthwhile.  If you really want to see clean fights, watch Jet Li in Fist of Legend.The movie is solid in the action department and the acting is above average. Brigite Fonda does well as the female lead in the movie with a solid performance and range and it's still hard to guage the acting ability of Jet Li.  His lines are limited which may be in no small part to his english, though to give credit where credit is due, his english is improving and this fan would hope that he continues to improve in this area to help increase his chances on getting more fleshed out roles in the American movie market.The plot is an after thought to the action with too many loose ends. Perhaps the openings are left for healthy speculation on behalf of the viewers, but it seems more likely that the intention of the movie was to showcase action and fight scenes over substance and quality.  There is the skeleton of the plot, with Fonda trying to get back on her feet and Li trying to clear his name, all the while both pursued by the almost over the top evil doer.Bottom line  much, much better than Romeo Must Die which was a complete waste of talent with Li and Russel Wong, but won't be as successful as Jackie Chan's Rush Hour 2.  Definately a matinee movie, but wait on the full price evening ticket unless you are a definately Jet Li fan. "},{"Title":"Probably the best action film of 2001.","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is the kind of action flick that has immediately became one of my most highly favorite action films of 2001.There was never a single time when I became dissapointed watching this exciting action packed in your face film that I would gladly buy on DVD.Jet Li is definitely on the rise and it shows in this film.I really appreciate this film as an action film.Jet li reminds me of the ultimate action actor who stepped out of nowhere with a big bang squashing previous action stars like Jean Claude Van Damme.(Face it,Jean Claude Van Damme's films aren't getting that good,especially when Replicant is going direct to video.)Kiss of the Dragon is in my opinion not the kind of movie I would enjoy but it might also be the one action film that I might as well be addicted to.The fight scenes are incredible and Jet li is the most invincible man I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Jet Li is incredible","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When you leave the theatre after seeing this movie, you will feel so jacked up!  Jet Li is amazing!  This was the perfect role for him.  Its not enough for todays movies to have a good fight scene, you need to incorporate flare. Jet delivers plenty of flare in this movie, using everything from a billiard ball to a broom stick as weapons.  If you enjoy martial arts, explosions, suspense, good vs. evil, you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Awsome Action with Bad Parts","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in the drive-in (along with Planet Of The Apes) with a good friend.  We both saw the trailor, and thought it would be a cool movie but not one to pay for, but since we did wanted to see Planet Of The Apes we thought this was a bonus.  In the movie there's an explosion part and a lot of fighting (of course since Jet Li stars in it).  The stuff Jet can do just blows yor mind, the only other movie i saw him in was Leathal Weapon 4, and that was a very good movie.  But in this movie there is one big whore part where she has sex, but keeps her clothes on kind of.  Then the other star (Fonda) was a whore, and then there was drugs in the movie. But then the action takes the bad parts out and makes a awsome.  I tell other to see if they like Jet Li films, or just find it intresting, I know the rest of my family feel asleep during it, so it's not for everyone! "},{"Title":"Bridget Fonda was the worst part of this movie!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First I must say that the fight scenes of this movie were sensational. However, the plot / screenplay was lacking in plausibility.  Bridget Fonda was absolutley horrible!  There were parts of the movie where I was ready to walk out, she was so bad. This is a rental at best.  Those are 2 hours of my life i'll never get back. "},{"Title":"Awesome choreography","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is awesome action movie that suffers from a poor plot. For those who are willing to suspend their need for realism in a movie this is a darn good one to go to.  Its fight choreography is amazing.  You really get to see Jet Li's skills shine through and realize why he is a superstar of the Hong Kong Cinema.  The sound track is a good one as has been indicative of the movies Mr. Li has made in America.  The action goes at a break neck speed with only a lull in the middle that quickly picks up.  A good buy for those fans of the martial art genre, and a good rental for anyone who wants an entertaining evening.  Granted the primary requisite still applies. "},{"Title":"Good fights everything else like plot you can forget.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The fights scenes are definitely worth it to go see the movie. But other than that you can forget everything else because the plot is well not really earth shattering or interesting. And also just when you think you wouldn't hear it again, one of the bad guys says the f-word again. I think that was kind of an overkill. "},{"Title":"A fight scene occassionally interupted with bad script","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw Kiss of the Dragon shortly after it opened.  I have always been a fan of a good martial arts movie, and even a few cheesey ones.  This really sucked though... The bulk of the movie was comprised of fight scenes, most of which looked either obviously choreographed (case in point I don't care who you are, one man against 30 black belts all toting night sticks is not going to come out victorious), or truncated and all of which were badly filmed.  Jet Li is very talented, but you might not get that from this movie.  He moved TOO fast for the eye to follow - demonstrating that the director is unfamiliar with the concept of slow-motion - and the camera was often at a bad angle to figure out what was going on.  The best parts of the fights were shown in movie previews.Then there's the issue of set design.  I love how the movie took place in France yet they drove around in American sedans, with American plates sometimes, no one spoke French (but there were quite a few bad French accents), and there was no French writing.  Yeah....Bridget Fonda was awful.  Granted, she's no award-winner, but she really sucked in this movie.  She was made out to be a greasy, uneducated, ignorant, whore (literally - she plays an American Hooker in France... *wasn't that a porno??*).  I expected something more from her... but she was another major let down.And the plot was non-existant.So... my vote?  If you'd like to watch a mediocre fight scene that's interupted with some really poorly writen, and even more poorly executed script, then by all means subject yourself to this cinematic torture device! "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow. this movie was bad. Im not just talking about it didnt have enough action, but it was BAD! The dialogue was absolutely horrible. One scene (POSSIBLE SPOILER) involving the bad guy is yelling at another guy on the phone. He says She escaped!? What do you mean she escaped!? how did she escape!? NEXT SCENE. My friends and I were laughing through this whole movie. This is not normal behavior for us in the theatre. We are usually very respectful because we hate it when other people make noise, but we just could not believe that Jet Li, the guy that is way cooler than Jackie Chan was in this movie.  At one point the woman next to us actually said can you please shut the f@#k up!? This movie contained no plot at all. If youve seen Time and Tide, the most recent Tsui Hark film, youll know what I mean. One thing that i actually found unsettling was the demeaning way in which women were treated.  This movie shows women being hit very graphically by much bigger stronger men, as well as them accepting the way they are treated because they are prostitutes. If you really like Jet Li, go see his best movie.  Its called My Father Is A Hero.  Also called The Enforcer.  This truly is his best movie.  As for Kiss of the Dragon, overall, it was really badly acted, the story was skimpy, the dialogue was extremely poorly written, and women are not treated as humyns in this one.  I will give it the credit to having good action scenes, although not enough,  but this alone cannot save this movie.  also, the two blonde bad guys are extremely funny looking and acting. "}{"Title":"ninja whamma jamma","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the Jet Li I want to see from now on. This movie, except for a few moments, is hardcore martial arts butt kicking. It also has a decent story which is always good considering most are you killed my brother now you will die. I actually would like to see a sequel with the Jet Li character from this flick. If you like kung fu flicks this one is a good choice.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining Carnage","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is an entertaining, if somewhat disappointing martial arts entry for Jet Li.  Li plays a Red Chinese police officer, who while investigating the smuggling of heroin into France, is framed and spends the entire movie in an extended cat and mouse with Tchéky Karyo (Bob, from Nikita), a police inspector working for the French government.  While not nearly as well written (story by Li)as Romeo Must Die, this film boasts VASTLY superior martial arts (no wires or gimmicky X ray effects here) and terrific music.  No naked lesbians here either, but the carnage is just short of Robocop.Kiss of the Dragon is particularly worthwhile if you are a fan of the genre.  However, the relationship between Li and Bridget Fonda goes nowhere. Doesn't Li ever KISS anyone in these movies, or would an interracial kiss offend Asian audiences?  In other words, there's not much for anyone but martial arts or gore fans.  "},{"Title":"s o l i d","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Solid story, awesome entertaining action sequences, very fun to watch. I enjoyed this a lot. I'm beginning to enjoy Jet Li's style and character more than say,...Jackie Chan. I gave this movie an '8', although I really enjoyed it there was nothing so uniquely amazing to make it a '10'.              "},{"Title":"Excellent, but","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must agree that this is the best action flick so far this Summer! And I disagree that there was too much talking. I think we're seeing Li coming into his own, for picking his vehicle as much as his acting and fighting talent. Much more depth than any of his films I've seen to date!The but is that I'm a bit disappointed to see that it's not really him in the fastest of the fight sequences. I'm virtually positive this is the case. Not the big, dangerous stunts, I'd expect that, but most of the more furiously-paced fights. I guess as a more bankable international star, it doesn't pay to take chances, but...BC "},{"Title":"Nice violent martial arts movie","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a good martial arts movie, and proves that Jet Li has a place in American film. Now the plot is a little thin, but if you go to martial arts movies for a deep plot line, stop watching martial art films. The action is good and violent, my only complaint is that they should just shoot the action scenes with the Jackie Chan One Shot it might have lost dramatic effect but would have been less confusing. Not to say that this was confusing, but if you sneeze or rub your eyes, you might not know what exactly what happened. There are some cool villans in this flick, including to twins who know martial arts (somewhere a B-movie director is drooling) and a very intimidating looking African American martial artist. Now the violence is brutal and definately earns it's R rating. Jet Li has a really cool trait in this movie, he has a braclet on his arm containing accupuncture needles, which he uses to poke in to his foe's necks, rendering them paralyzed (a very creative and cool idea). Bridget Fonda looks really hot in the film, even though they make her look like some look-what-the-cat-dragged-in hooker (she plays a hooker in the flick). I recommend this to any Jet Li or Martial arts fan, and wait till you find out what the Kiss of the Dragon is, awww man that was sweet. "},{"Title":"Great Fight Scenes.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Kiss Of The Dragon is a real good fighting film if you like fast pace martial arts. The story is not something new it's been done before very simple Jet Li is a cop on a secret mission where he gets framed and the story goes from there. The acting is not good but hay it's Jet Li not Al Pacino right. As for Bridget Fonda she plays a prostitute in the film and doesn't do a bad job but she gets treated real bad. The action is great scene after scene of great fighting sequences Jet Li can kick some butt. I would recommend you watch this film if you feel like seeing some fast action that will leave you in awe!  "},{"Title":"Jet Li should stick to fighting, not acting","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For the first 1/2 hour of this movie, I thought This is pretty cool...from that point on, however, the silliness of the acting and details of the story were overwhelmingly bad.  No spoilers here, but lets just say that some of the acupuncture techniques used in the film are as far-fetched as they come.  To top it off, Jet Li and Bridget Fonda have a couple of dialogues for dramatic effect, but all it ends up doing is showing how bad the acting is in this film.  The question I have always had about Bridget Fonda, why someone as attractive and likeable as her cannot seem to land a big role, has finally been answered.  Her acting is terrible.  Overall, this movie was a laugher, yes, including most of the fight scenes. "},{"Title":"Slightly better than I expected.","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is exactly what it appears to be, the latest martial arts movie starring Jet Li. It is barely a step up from the old Van Damme movies, except that Jet Li is such a better martial artist than Van Damme. In this movie, Li plays the part of Liu Jian, a cop from Hong Kong who is sent to investigate two murders in France and winds up framed for the crime. He ultimately is fighting to clear his name while pursued by both his enemies and his friends, who are trying to capture him as well to clear up the question about the murders, which they do not really believe that he committed. And, of course, Jian is pretty much a machine in the movie, which coincides with his stunning fighting capabilities. He has no wife, no kids, no family, no friends, nothing in his life other than his work. This is fitting beyond the movie, by the way, because wouldn't it be weird to see Jet Li in a love scene? The humanistic as well as the romantic subplot involves a naïve prostitute named Jessica (Bridget Fonda) from North Dakota, who is stuck working as a prostitute for Richard (French film veteran Tchéky Karyo) until she can `earn' her daughter back from him. She is a heroin junkie who is trying to quit, except that he won't let her, he forces her to shoot up as a means of keeping her under control. This whole thing about Jessica is one of the more satisfying elements of the movie. Indeed, midway through the movie, we care much more about how Liu Jian is going to avenge Jessica's pimp for beating her than we do about whether or not Richard will be punished for the murders that he committed early in the film. (spoilers) On both subjects, of course, we are not disappointed. There is a great scene where Jessica offers to help Liu Jian sew up a wound on the back of his arm, and her pimp arrives and tries to force Jian to pay him for using up her time while she should have been out on the street turning tricks so she could make him money. Jian politely asks him not to hit her again, and subsequently kicks the hell out of him and his men. What a great scene that was! Unfortunately, it becomes a little confusing when a gigantic black guy shows up, strips down, and fights with Jian, because we don't know where this guy came from or where he went (he seemed to actually disappear after the fight was over). The fighting scenes in this movie are, as is to be expected from Jet Li, extremely well done and fun to watch, but the plot itself becomes convoluted and manipulative at some points. And besides that, the actual Kiss of the Dragon was a little confusing to me. Jian carried this bracelet around during the entire movie and he pulled acupuncture needles out of it periodically and seemed to stick them in good guys and bad guys alike. He stuck one in both of the murder victims early in the film, he sticks them in several people with whom he fights throughout the movie, he sticks one in Jessica's neck as she lies in her hospital bed, and he sticks one in Richard at the film's conclusion. Are they drugged or what? Painkillers? I could ever quite figure it out, because of his relationships with all of the people that he stuck them in. At any rate, I'm no doctor, but I'm pretty sure there is nowhere in the back of the neck where you can stick a needle that, when removed, would cause the person's head to fill up with blood until it came out their eyes and nose and ears until they died. But it made for a unique death scene, at least. There are several examples of botched editing which mess up the film's continuity, and the whole movie is wrapped up in a neat little package with a cutesy, happy ending, but as far as martial arts movies, this is definitely one of the better ones. Jet Li and Jackie Chan both seem to come out with a new movie every other day or so, and it's nice to see that they are not just cranking out total garbage. This is not going to win any awards for anyone involved, but it is well worth it's hour and forty minutes. "},{"Title":"great action, but a little character depth would be nice","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I mean, I don't expect action movies to provide me with deep, thoughtful stories (unless that movie is the Matrix). I don't expect them to conform to the laws of physical or even psychological reality. But I'd appreciate just a smidge of  i motivation.Before I go spoiling the plot, let it be said that this is a very well directed and choreographed action flick. Jet Li is as awe-inspiring as ever. Paris makes for a beautiful backdrop to get shot up a lot. The music is pretty good, too. But I'm afraid that's not enough.<BEGIN SPOIL>You see, the French fellow who plays the bad cop is great at playing menacing, violent characters (as in the superior La Femme Nikita). But unfortunately, the writers forgot to give a reason for being so bad.I mean, why did he go through all that trouble to hire a top Chinese policeman (Jet Li), bring him to Paris in a cloak of mystery, then kill that Chinese gangster and pin it on Jet Li? Why did that prostitute stab that Chinese gangster in the first place? Was she hired by the bad cop? Then why did he shoot her as well? The event is what propels the rest of the film, but it is never adequately explained. So what we get is some psychopath who happens to have worked his way to a high rank within the police force, but nobody in the law seems to notice his murderous ways. I find it hard to believe that the orderly and rulebound French would tolerate such a character. In Moscow perhaps, but not Paris, for goodness sakes.Why did they make all that fuss about the video tape of the killings, when by the end, it proved inconsequential to the plot? And the way the bad guy's offed in the end, it was too neat, too predictable, like the end of Gladiator. <END SPOILER>Still, all my bitching aside, it's a fun summer flick. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not a good vehicle for Li...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li is a fantastic fighter. But you wouldn't be able to tell from watching this film if you've never seen him before.Forget the weak plot (The plot is supposed to be weak in a movie like this. It usually exists to bridge the action sequences, so I give it leeway.). The way most of the fight scenes are shot do not showcase Li, in fact they actually seem to showcase how frenetically hip the director is at shooting movies &#150; `Hey look Ma! I shot a music video with Jet Li in it!' Cut the crazy camera angles, pull the camera back, shout `Action!' and just let Jet fight. It sounds overly simplistic, but that's how it should be done. The director seems to realize this in time for (most of) the last fight, but by then you'll wish you had rented `Fist of Legend' or even `Romeo Must Die' instead.  "}{"Title":"Not bad!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ok, Luc Besson, you should have directed this one. Then this movie would have been god, but it's still not bad. Jet Li kills alot of people. That was cool. This movie had the COOLEST bad guy, Tcheky Karyo, I want to see that dude in some more movies...Hell ya. This movie, was directed by rookie Chris Nahon, it shows...but if he keeps doing his homework, he'll be another good filmmaker...Even if he IS French. I was mildly impressed by this movie....Good way to waste time....by no means any Lethal Weapon(god, I love that movie) but worth a look.Brad "},{"Title":"Finally! A good Hollywood Jet Li movie!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have read that Luc Besson and Jet Li wanted this movie to be sort of a cross between The Professional and Fist of Legend. While K.O.D was not as good as either of those movies, I think they definitely achieved that tone. If you've seen Fist of Legend, you can definitely see that they heavily borrowed from it's fights; and the movie sort of has the same ambience as The Professional.I have been waiting for several years now, to see an American movie that really shows more of Jet Li's ability. While he was cool in Lethal Weapon 4, it really didn't show us enough. Romeo Must Die was just a major disappointment; seemingly more focused on the rap music (and stars) than really showcasing Jet Li.Now we have K.O.D., while not perfect, is a definite positive step towards an awesome Li movie. As you watch the fights in this movie, you can really see the pain in the punches, so to speak. Corey Yuen, although a good fight coreographer, needs to work with the director on showing the action as a whole, more then in a bunch of quick-cutting closeups. I tend to notice this in a lot of his coreography (especially in his U.S. movies). It also seems he put in an ode-to-Wolverine, with the chopsticks scene (he did the coreography for X-men).Bridget Fonda was (and although I think she's okay) just wasted. She always just seems a little too nice, and she spent a good deal of the movie whining. I found myself waiting for her scenes to be over so we could move on to the next.Another element, even though it was cool, that seemed thrown in was the dojo scene. That was almost certainly taken right out of Fist of Legend, with the leg hitting techniques of Bruce Lee's Chinese Connection (which FOL was a tribute to).And when, oh when, will we ever see a modern martial arts movie without rap music. Soon I hope. This movie almost made it, but it was still scattered throughout.To sum it up, the movie had a decent plot (although full of holes) and had some good fights.  A solid 8/10.One more thing.... when will people learn that an actors ability to fight in movies, is in NO WAY a reflection of how he fights in real life?! That's like saying that an actor really acts like the character he's protraying. Jet Li does Wushu Kung-Fu which is a really showy martial art and is heavily used in movies. I happen to know people who know close connections to Jet Li which in fact, admit that he's not that good of a fighter. In fact, they said if anyone, Jackie Chan is a better real life fighter ( and Sammo Hung is known to be a better fighter than Jackie). In terms of movies, Jet Li is up there, if not better than Bruce Lee. But out of the movies, Bruce was known for being the real thing. "},{"Title":"Great Action - Plot? What's that?","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie had fantastic action sequences that were well choreographed.  On that basis alone it is worth watching, however, I would catch it as a matinee.  I managed to see it for free, so I don't have any complaints.  Nevertheless, if I had paid $8.50 I would have been sorely disappointed.  The plot is as gossamer thin as the sugar glass they use in stunts.  The two friends I went with at the end of the film asked at the same time, So what was the plot?  Granted, you don't see an action film for the plot but a bit of some sort of coherent story is a definite plus.RatingsAction *********Plot ***Casting ******Watch Factor (How many times during the movie I looked at my watch) * "},{"Title":"Whole N' Hearty Hong Kong Action","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you see `Kiss of the Dragon', don't bother paying attention to the plot. It's pure pie filler in between the action sequences that reminisce back to the `A Better Tomorrow' films. The plot, the best cop in China travels to Paris and gets double-crossed, isn't creative nor innovative. But I don't care, I, nor anyone else in the audience, was paying attention. In this movie, Jet Li gets double crossed, he teams up with a beaten-up whore (Bridget Fonda) who, get this, has a daughter held captive. The plot is nothing new, the dialogue is boring, but I didn't go see `Kiss of the Dragon' for that, I went to see it for it's action. And boy does this movie have a lot of that!Tchéky Karyo is Jean-Pierre Richard, the embodiment of all corny cinematic evildoers with two defining differences. A He has intelligence. Yes, he single-handedly wipes out half of his bodyguards throughout the movie, bodyguards that could have been more properly wasted trying to take out Jet Li. And yes all of his lines are composed of shouting orders similar to `Bring him back alive! I will deal with him myself!' But Tchéky Karyo just doesn't read lines. He is a convincing bad guy up until his (minor spoiler) extremely gruesome death. And, B He's French. Karyo delivers a promising performance that reaffirms his position as the best actor in France.Now to the action. The movie starts and ends with sweet and sour chicken that the audience just gobbles up. I'll give you an example. The start of the movie is a running chase after a prostitute stabs a Chinese official, Basic Instinct style, to death. One of Jean-Pierre's spies turns on rock n' roll with two SMGs, and sets himself up to get a billiard ball ricocheted off his head in one of the more retro action scenes. The end has Jet Li take on a room full of black belt karate experts. Action fan nirvana! This is why come to the movies! Just well done professional martial arts at it's finest. "},{"Title":"An EXCELLENT movie.  Jet Li is AMAZING!! You are committing a sin if you do not go see this amazing movie.  It has everything!!  Car chases, gun fights, fist fights, comedy.  Everything.  Afterall, it is Jet","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of The Dragon is an AMAZING movie.  You are committing a sin if you do not go see it.  It is an edge-of-your-seat movie.  It has everything from gun fights, fist fights to comedy.  Jet Li is at his best.  You will want to go see the movie again.  Trust me.  Do not waste any more time, just go see it, will you!?  I cannot wait for Jet Li's next movie.  I give this movie a twenty on ten because it is soooooooooo good!!  -)  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fresh and captivating (9/10)","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson's Kiss of the Dragon wasn't above average in the action department, but it had a heck of a good thriller-like plot, and really good dialogue - much less cheesy than most films of the genre. I also liked the fact that it involved non-American cultures - Chinese and French - for a change. It doesn't hold back from over-the-top bloody scenes, which some may like and some not. I just loved the ending, during which we find out what the 'kiss of the dragon' is. Wow, what an ending! The corrupt French police chief was one of the most evil villains I've seen yet. And Jet Li could pull the third layer of skin out from under the first two on a rabid pit bull in heat without a scratch. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Martial Arts done right","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film has it all, fight scenes in context with a good plot. Jet Lee put on an incredible performance. The only thing that was lacking was the female role which was played by Bridget Fonda because feeling bad for her should have been easy but she didn't convince me. The rest of the film more then made up for this minute component of the film. This film shows all those poeple who thought Romeo must Die was good what a real martial arts film is. 10 out of 10 ( a must see for 2001 ). "},{"Title":"Fastest Needles in the world.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li has the fastest needles in the west.  You have to see the movie to figure that out.  A new secret weapon.  He is still learning English and the lack of overall dialogue shows but the same could be said for Arnold S.  Jet is not a muscular power house but he is Fast, Furious and powerful to watch in action. Yet he can handle the quiet thoughtful scenes very well too.  Bridget was great.  Once again, she played a tough part to the hilt. Not a likeable character at first but she wins you over. Not academyaward but you felt her anguish.Tcheky was so bad, so evil, so ruthless.  Not over the top.  Just plain mean.The violence and shootings and loss of innocent victims are a stretch since they were all due to the Good/Bad guys.  May not be a popular film by the French Security or Police services.Would see it again cause I'm an action junkie. "},{"Title":"9 out of 10","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this is a cool flick folks. non-stop(or barely-stop) action from beginning to end. and there was a plot too! jet li was great and spoke english very well, a lot better than he did in romeo must die, a far less fun movie than this kick-ass martial arts extravaganza! "},{"Title":"The Martial Arts Action Star We've all been waiting for!","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes - it's been a long time coming, but we finally have someone to replace Prime Chuck and Bruce as the king of Martial arts.  That's right I'm crowning Jet Li as today's best of the best.  Van Dame never came through, and my last favorite Seagal has gotten fat and no longer makes good movies. No, Jet Li is the stud to take us into the next few years.  I had hoped with all my heart that after Lethal Weapon 4 that Jet Li would get his shot, and now he has.  What makes Jet Li so good, is his seemingly emotionless personality.  He takes care of business first, and doesn't let the other crap get in the way.  I pay to see fighting not smooching when I go see an action movie, plain and simple.*As far as a review for this movie, well if you want to see Jet Li fight, then go see this movie.  If you want Steel Magnolias go elsewhere.Also for those of you that enjoyed this movie, please check out Jet Li's remake of Bruce's Fists of fury, called fist of Legend.  The end fight scene is worth the price of admission. "}{"Title":"Good action, bad everything else.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Kiss of the Dragon, there are a few fight scenes that show just how amazing Jet Li's abilities are and there the best parts of the film. But once these scenes stop, the film becomes a stupid minded, plotless and badly acted movie that to it's credit is a step above Li's debacle last year called Romeo Must Die, but it's not much of a step.  As said before the fight scenes are very good and the action is intense. The only decent actor in the movie is Tcheky Karyo from The Patriot who plays the film's villain and is good even if he's over the top in almost every scene.  The real bad points in the movie are whenever Li opens his mouth, he still seems to have a major problem delivering his lines in most scenes, but when he can move as fast he can, I guess bad acting isn't really a problem. I understand he hasn't had many English language movies so I can give him the benefit of the doubt, but I still wish he could say his lines a little better. Another problem is Bridget Fonda, who seems to be taking a career nosedive as of late. I give it * out of 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"Kick ass thriller with phenomenal fight scenes","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is a kck ass thriller with phenomenal fight scenes.  Jet Li, who seems to be getting better with eaxch film stars as a secret agent on a mission in Paris, when the mission go awry he finds himself suddenly on the run from the french government. Along the way he meets a prostitute played by Bridget Fonda, the two are both on the run from the same people, Li agrees to help Fonda get her daughter back, and that's when the action really kicks in. There are about 6 or 7 major fight scenes in the film, the best sequences come at the end when Li takes on a room full of black belts then a few minutes later takes on two twin arian brothers, this fight is amazing Li manages to hold his own against two opponents and the result is jaw dropping. This ranks up there with Exit Wounds as the best action film of the year, it's the best of the summer, don't miss it. "},{"Title":"I underestimated this solid film","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  KISS OF THE DRAGON It stars Jet Li, Bridget Fonda, and Tchéky Karyo. I liked Jet's previous film, Romeo Must Die, with Aaliyah. Though the story/plot is typical, I give props to Jet Li for scripting it - he wrote the story, acted in the movie as the lead, and produced the film, which qualifies him as multi-talented. The story has its share of flaws but like almost all action films, flaws are a given. Jet Li blows Jackie Chan's goofy, monkey, clown-faced, style out of the water - Jet Li is all about earning the viewers respect. Jet isn't ripped or massive but he manages to be menacing, in fact he is small and subtle - modest and humble, even Bruce Lee didn't have that quality. First the BAD Bridget Fonda's acting skills weren't revealed in the film - she plays a street girl and she mostly cries and yearns for her daughter. Tchéky plays the villian and does a fantastic job making the viewer hate him; he was great in his role as the villian. Jet Li has probably 40 short lines total and they include I don't sell shrimp, That was a big mistake (not much different from Romeo Must Die's, 'That was a mistake'), yeah, and please don't do that again. His English is still broken but comprehensible. With Jet Li's wushu skills and menacing gaze, he could have led the movie without talking at all, letting actions speak for his lack of words. Now for the GOOD A solid film with tons of action to compensate for the lack of plot. Jet Li borrows from the original himself, Bruce Lee, and takes on about 40 black belt Parisians training at the police station. The choreography is intense and causes severe rapid eye movement. In another awesome fight scene, he fights two towering villians with dyed blond hair which is amusing. They look more like beach boys but the final scene with them is worth the outrageous price of $8.50 to see the film. The background music is by the rap artist Mystikal and it fits perfectly with the fight scene. Right when the fight between the threesome reaches the climax, the music stops completely and the crowd is left hanging in the air, screaming, cheering, and applauding as it echoes through the theatre - a fantastic film technique that I loved. I give the film a solid B grade - with the above mentioned maybe you can decide if you want to see it or rent it on DVD when it's released in a few months.I sometimes wonder when the filmmakers will have the confidence and pioneering thought to release a film with a major Chinese actor (Chow Yun Fat, Jet Li, Jackie Chan) who speaks in his native langauge (Mandarin or Cantonese) while using subtitles. That would allow the actor to really open up in a natural state (instead of forced and limited English) and reward the viewers in the end. Just look at Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon for a perfect example.  "},{"Title":"Movie equivalent of good beach book; Great martial arts action; weak script.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the best martial arts action I've seen in a long time.  I don't include Crouching Tiger in the genre because it was too mystical--people don't really fly.  Crouching Tiger was a film.  This is a movie.  If you expect Crouching Tiger, you will be disappointed.    This movie wisely does not try to emulate Jackie Chan's humor, but still does not take itself too seriously.It is good that it does not take itself too seriously because the script. .. the script . . ..  Was there a script?  Did anyone review the script for internal consistency?  Were key scenes accidentally left on the cutting room floor?  Was this written in Chinese and translated by computer?  Again, we don't expect Crouching Tiger, but . . ..The general plot line is fine for this genre.  Good guy gets backed into impossible corner by incredibly evil bad guys and takes them all down against impossible odds.  Of course, the devil is in the details, and some of the coincidences are very hard to swallow.  The street walker just happens to have her piece of street right outside the window of the hero's safe house?  Well, maybe Paris is a lot smaller town than I thought it was, or the red light district is a lot smaller.  The evil baddie who is smart enough to be the top French anti-terrorist cop uses a junkie street hooker that he is blackmailing (or two of them) in an assassination attempt. Maybe he's not that smart, just evil and lucky.  The rich powerful chinese politico uses junky street walkers rather than high price call girls?. Maybe he's just into the rolling-in-the-gutter thing.  The evil baddie doesn't just kill the street hooker witness immediately?  Maybe she's good in the sack.  Wouldn't the junkie street hooker be going through withdrawal while she's running around with the hero for two days?  Absolutely, but maybe that acupuncture thing works for addicts.  The government ought to check that out.  And maybe the #2 evil baddie, who is a street pimp in addition to being the #2 on the Frech anti-terrorist team and walks around police headquarters all the time(that's REAL likely to happen)actually walks blindly into a smokey room after the good guy has miraculously killed multiple baddies and escaped from impossible situations numerous times. After all, street pimps/goons are not the world's smartest folks.All that aside, this movie is worth a look, at least at the matinee price. The action sequences are great.  Of course the characters are one-dimensional, underdeveloped, and cartoonish, especially the baddies. That is expected, and it makes the gore acceptable, and there is a lot of gore to accept.  As in any good martial arts flick, the bad guys are sooooooooooooo bad that they deserve to die in horrible, painful ways. And, really, this is a live action cartoon, so you can't get too morally offended about the baddies getting offed in new and creatively painful ways.Fonda is . . . well . . . Fonda.  I could look at her in anything, even in the awful I'm a junkie street walker make-up job in this movie.  She is just so . . . nice, it's hard to believe that she really is a street hooker, even with the blackmail angle.Finally, everyone is talking about it, so, here goes  Bruce Lee . . . Jet Li . . . the next . . . NOT YET.  Jet Li looks a lot like Bruce Lee.  He is a smaller good-looking asian guy that kicks ass only when asses need to be kicked.  How good looking?  Not as good as Bruce, in my opinion, but you'd have to ask your women friends for a real answer.  My wife used to melt over Bruce Lee, but said Jet Li was a good looking guy.  But who knows what she really thinks.  She may just be sparing my middle-aged overweight ego. Li's martial arts skills seem to be close to Bruce Lee quality, but the comparison is hard when you think about the advances in camera technology, editing, special effects, not to mention budgets, since Bruce's time.  As much as I like Jackie Chan, I like Li's martial arts style better (hey, Chan fans, it's just a matter of TASTE, not a criticism).  What Li does not have is Bruce's look.  You know the one, when the bad guys have gone too far, when the bad guys have put on the straw that breaks the camel's back, when Bruce gets MAD, and you know that the baddies are going to get what they deserve NOW.  That look of barely controlled, but still controlled, rage and hatred is what set Bruce apart from all other contenders, before or after. Especially when the look was combined with that puff up thing Bruce did, when he went from a slim, wirey guy to a fully buff, almost Arnie-type body by flexing all his muscles at once.  It looked like he doubled in size right before your eyes.  I've never seen anyone else that could do it, and I don't think it was special effects.  Bruce Lee was his own special effect.As good as Jet Li is, and he is VERY good, he is not the new Bruce Lee.  Of course, the question itself is a compliment and a disservice.  It is a complement to be compared to the best.   It is a disservice because there will never be a consensus yes answer to the question.  No-one can be equal to a legend.  I think that is why Jackie Chan went the comedy route -- why try to compete with a legend?  In the end, it is like all the dithering over who the next Michael Jordan is or will be.  Or who will be the next John Kennedy?  Early death (or retirement) creates legends and myths.  Though they are fun to debate, these questions are unanswerable.  There will never be another Michael Jordan or another Bruce Lee.  I haven't read any interviews of Jet Li to see what he says about it, but I hope he realizes that being Jet Li is all that he will ever be, and that is plenty good enough.  Way better than good enough, in fact.  He is way better than anyone else who is doing quasi serious martial arts movies right now, and probably will be for a long time to come.  At least, he will be IF HE GETS BETTER SCRIPTS! "},{"Title":"The critics don't get martial arts films","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you like Jet Li you will like this movie.  He creates a screen presence that he hasn't in his previous U.S. films.  Kudos to Fonda for her enjoyable performance.  This is better than Point of No Return and captures some of the magic of Leon The Professional. "},{"Title":"This is the best martial arts film I've seen in years","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You have to see Jet Li's new movie Kiss of the Dragon  I just saw it.  The movie totally rocks.  This is the best martial arts film I've seen in years, and I watch a lot of martial arts film.  What I really liked about it was that they didn't use any wire tricks!  The director was smart enough to let Jet Li use his own athleticism and speed.  Choreography wise some of the fight seens weren't as good as some of Bruce Lee's Enter the Dragon scenes (very campy and sort of slowed down so you can see what's happening), but god damn is Jet Li fast.  There are a few plot holes, but they're minor compared to most action movies. Check it out! "},{"Title":"This movie is simply a disappointment","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love Jet Li, but he wasted his time in this movie.  In fact, the only thing that makes this movie worth watching is Jet Li's presence.  Unfortunately, even his incredible screen presence was cut off at the knee by poor directing, a lack of character development and too-short fight scenes.  The movie skips any semblance of an opener and so fails to give us any insight or connection with Jet Li's character, let alone a taste of his abilities.  It also fails to explain why the bad guys imported a not so pretty single mother from North Dakota and kept her as an unsuccessful prostitute, while pouring valuable drugs into her and keeping her daughter in orphanage at their expense.  And Bridget Fonda is horrible as this prostitute.I must admit the action sequences were quite good, but the fight scenes were too short and plagued by that bane of good martial arts cutting the shot to another angle prematurely.  Jet Li's presence in a room filled with smoke was simply incredibly, even if what followed lacked his usual elegance.  He also got to utter don't do that again in that so matter-of-fact it's menacing tone (That was a mistake --Romeo Must Die).  Too bad you couldn't actually see most of the action that followed the line.Perhaps Jet Li is trying to get away from being a martial arts star and become simply an action star who also does wushu.  What a pity if he does.  Action stars are a dime a dozen; martial artists of Jet Li's calibre who can also act are quite rare.  Jet Li in motion is beautiful, but this movie doesn't portray much of it.  The few moments where he is allowed to shine are so short.  In almost every kung fu movie, you see this comment, Too much wirework.  Please, just let us see Jet Li do his stuff, unhampered by funky camera angles and switches. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think Asia and America have been looking for someone to replace Bruce Lee since he died in '73. There have been imitators and semi-popular attempts. Jackie Chan has done well, but his acting skills are not that good, is more of a comedic actor and he doesn't have the charisma Lee did, as well as being older. Now comes Jet Li, who is finally getting his due in the states.Kiss of the Dragon is a bad script, a bad rehash of Besson's Leon. It's got that stupid my daughter is being held captive plot which has been done so many times. It's got the group of fighters who politely wait for the others to get beat up before jumping in and fighting the hero. It's got way too many close ups where we see the pores in the actor's faces and the tiny hairs on their cheeks. It's got implausible scenes (how the heck does Li GET OUT of the police station once he has the daughter?). It's got cliched characters and a waste of the great Bridget Fonda's time. But with that said, it's still an entertaining film and it's because of Li, who is about as close to a Bruce Lee as I think we'll ever see. He's great in the film.Li, who is very charismatic and acrobatic, demands attention when he's on the screen.  Because of him, you're willing to overlook all the stupid stuff. It's like that with Bruce Willis. He's so great, you're willing to forget that all that stuff could never happen. That's the sign of a superstar. Jet is entertaining. Watch for him to really take off in the states. "},{"Title":"Strange Movie...","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a strange movie. But I loved it. Most of the fight scenes were really good and well choreographed, the acting was great and the special effects were awesome. Though, it did have a few flaws in the story line, such as never fully explaining why he was needed in France. All in all. I give this movie a ten out of ten, go see it right now. "},{"Title":"A great action movie","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was all hyped up like a 14 year-old boy when I left the movie theater. The last time I was this excited about a movie was when I saw The Matrix.  KOD may not have a great-original-uniquely-suited-story-or-plot-line.  So what? It is a GREAT action movie and I had a LOT of fun watching it.  Jet Li's fights are just AWESOME, and the bad guys are as good as him.  I loved the line where Jet Li tells the bad guy to look out the window.  He does, and Jet Li sees him, and he says Ok, now I know where you are, and I am coming up.  The bad dude turns around and screams to all the thugs in desperation He is coming up!!! )) I was just cracking up.  Jet Li may not win an oscar for his performance, but I sure as hell will buy the DVD for this one when it comes out.If you like Brandon Lee's Rapid Fire, you will like this one. "}{"Title":"Kicking Ass and Honoring His Word","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jet Li is the Man. Without Jet Li, Chris Nahon' Kiss of the Dragon would be a forgettable action exercise. To his credit director, Chris Nahon, brings to the screen the most realistic, controlled, brutal, and unforgiving martial arts fight sequences to date-- Enter the Dragon quality. And the Bruce Lee comparison to Li does apply. There is no wasted motion here. All the fight sequences, particularly one set in the martial arts dojo, are concise, expedient, and without mercy. It's what martial arts is intended to be given that the best choice is not to fight at all, if not then it is to end the fight quickly and definitively. Jet Li executes with speed, power, and precision. He is world class. He is not pulling his blows much-- if any. Li has a powerful screen presence. What works for him is the understated persona, and someone you just don't f--- with. When his character, Johnny says Don't do that again..., only a fool wouldn't listen. Good for the movie, there are a lot of stupid people in it The story by Li, along with Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen, starts off simple, then more or less becomes background. Li plays a Beijing cop Liu Jian, on assignment in Paris to investigate a Chinese businessman. Jian (or Johnny) is framed for the murder of the businessman by the French cop heading the investigation, Richard (Tcheky Karyo). Through a chance encounter, Johnny befriends the hooker who witnessed the murder- this is Jessica played sympathetically and effectively by Bridget Fonda. Fonda looks great here-- even playing a hooker. Turns out that Jessica is a heroin junkie strung out on Investigator Richard's payroll, who is also holding her daughter. Johnny must clear his name and gives Jessica his word that he will save her daughter. This is just great hero stuff... There is an quiet moment in the movie where Jessica says to Johnny, I trusted you...--i.e. 'you disappointed me.' Being a man of honor, he will honor his word like life or death. This maybe Jet Li's breakthrough movie. His Johnny is a quiet man of his word, and someone who is willing to die for it. He is a classic hero here. Bridget Fonda gives depth to a thinly written character-- she plays it with heart and smarts. All around this a good summer movie. Be in awe of the prowess and talents of Jet Li, and don't think about the story too much... Really... "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As a Jet Li fan, I rushed to the theater on the opening night of KISS OF THE DRAGON and found it rather disappointing.There are a lot of reviews out there so I am not going to do another brief review on the film.  All I want to say, especially to the new fans of Li's who only know him from Lethal Weapons IV,Romeo Must Die, and this movie, don't be too disappointed.  You haven't seen the real JET LI if you did not see the following movies Fist of Legend, The Defender... So to make up for the disappointing Kiss of the Dragon, rent one of Li's Hong Kong movies.  "},{"Title":"Masterful fight scenes with original plot devices","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked Jet Li in the movie Lethal Weapon 4, and hated him in The Black Mask.  I didn't see his other films, but looked forward to seeing his martial arts skills portrayed in this movie.I was not disappointed.  Not only were the fight scenes enjoyable (the R rating was well deserved - people with weak stomachs should be prepared to shield their eyes), but there was a novel plot device that I found added much to the movie.Bridget Fonda's performance was beneath her capability, but face it, you're not going to go to this film for the acting. "},{"Title":"Decent Action, but plot lacking","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film seems to skip much of a plot and starts out in the middle of a story that you never really get to find out what is going on.  The action is fairly good but it would have been a much better movie if it had a better plot.  You never find out why a murder occured, why a main character was involved, why people are being framed, why there is hostility between governments, why the evil person is in power, or why the prostitute and her daughter are in the situation they are in, etc.  It is almost like walking in to the middle of a movie and missing the first half of it because of this all the undeveloped and unfished plot.  I'd give this movie a score of 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A martial arts movie done right","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Look to Kiss of the Dragon to see how martial arts movies are when they are done right. The story held my attention and kept me guessing, the fight scenes blended well with the rest of the movie, the movie was well acted and the dialogue for the most part lacked the campiness of most Kung Fu movies, thanks to Luc Besson (see also The Professional and The Fifth Element, two excellent movies written by M. Besson).  But above all else, Jet Li completely tore up the screen, as well as the villains. The action was nonstop, and every single fight scene built on the previous one. Trust me, it gets much better than the billiard ball scene from the preview. I had one single complaint, which is why I couldn't give it a 10. The story was slightly confusing, and some aspects of the plot were not explained adequately. See it for the fights, though, and it will be worth your while. "},{"Title":"Jet Li Is Back!!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This should have been Jet Li's first movie to introduce himself to the US audience. If you are like me, not crazy about how 'Romeo Must Die' was done because of the bad editing and crazy wire works, then you will love this movie. 'Kiss Of The Dragon' is no 'Fist of Legend', which I think is Jet Li's best film along with 'Once upon In China II', but it certainly is one of his better one with a fast moving storyline. On top of that, with American Production and the high tech audio mix, makes this one of the most entertaining movie so far this summer. I read some negative review about the acting and the over used storyline, but hey!! this is a Jet Li movie!! If you are a Jet Li fan and you are expecting to see Jet Li' at his best, then this should satisfy you. The action editing is not his best, but it is very good. And every fight in this movie is very well done and they are awesome. When you come out of the theatre, you will want to go home and dig up 'Fists of Legend' just so you can get another dose of Jet. This movie will remind you what an awesome fighter he is! I give it a two thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"Great Movie...best one so far.","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie of Mr. Li, is wonderful, the best American film so far...of course his english is a lot better, and he had more lines...and the action was just the best. Although he didn't use anything to swing around...like in Black Mask, or Romeo Must Die...it was still action filled of my favorite moves. I have almost all of Mr. Li's films on DVD...Most of which are in chinese but I have subtitles, yes i am american, non-asian, and a female, but I can still feel proud to say that I know who He is and that He is a great *GREAT* martial artist. I can't wait for Mr. Li's next english film. "},{"Title":"Those Frenchmen again...","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ho hum, the French police is portrayed as incompetent and corrupt...again.  Why is it unthinkable that the locale for this film would have been England, and the bad cops, employees of Scotland Yard ? Is it because people are meaner if they have a foreign accent when they speak English ? Hummm...now this wouldn't be also be true of a person who speaks French (or any other languages) with an English accent, would it? I know, I know, this is just an action film with no other pretense than high speed entertainment.  I suppose that I should take some consolation in the fact that most people realize that if most guys and gals with French accents on screen are mean, stupid and unreliable, it does not mean that most guys and gals with French accents off screen are mean, stupid and unreliable.You DO realize that, don't you ? "},{"Title":"There is a time for coherence and a time for action - Coherence is dead.","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The exhausting and ultra-violent Kiss of the Dragon is, as far as I could tell from my vantage point behind my fingers, a good martial arts movie.The ludicrous plot, where chief-baddie Richard (Tcheky Karyo) combines his titular post as a senior Paris policeman with a full-time job managing drug smuggling, prostitution and murder rackets, is scarcely worth worrying about.  Turkish actor Karyo (The Patriot, Bad Boys) sneers through every scene, whether taking a cosy vin rouge with the Cher Ministre, or dispatching yet another unfortunate victim.  In one case, he kills an innocent diner in plain view of a full Chinese restaurant!  Well, at least we are spared the usual I'm calling the police - I am the police lines.Jet Li, who boasts both a personal acting and a personal language coach according to the credits, is not in need of a martial arts coach of any type.  He kicks ass, spleen and various other body parts in the astonishing fight scenes.  His sideline in acupuncture (!) also helps him take care of friend and foe.However, not for the faint of heart.  Or stomach.  I need a vacation. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Martial Arts Movie","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great action sequences, that didn't drag; good acting by all the principals; and a believable plot and ending. Jet Li, who was already good in his native language, is getting better in English. Bridget Fonda plays off his hero image very well. And Tcheky Karyo is a good bad guy. I was surprised to see that Jet Li came up with the story, and Luc Besson did a good job at turning it into a well paced film. Highly recommended for fans of the Action/Martial Arts genre. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable is sometimes silly martial arts fare","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li's Kiss of the Dragon has some really good martial arts sequences, I won't deny that.  Sometimes they are even as amazing as the fights Jackie Chan has (although he is more extraordinary).  Li is also good at the acting thing, although Fonda is a lot better.  So I can reccomend this movie to the thrill seekers out there and especially Li fans.  However, be warned that there are some ridiculous things often afloat.  For instance, how does someone take a shot of smack and is able to still walk about.  And another, how can one person take on a room full of black belt karate experts.  Well, I guess that shows what you can do in movies, especially kung fu ones.  Co-written and co-produced by 5th Element director Besson; original story by Li.  B+ "},{"Title":"Best action sequences I've seen in the theatres in a while","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just came home from watching Kiss of the Dragon and am I ever Impressed! The movie was amazing, it actually got you to care about the characters quite a bit so it was really satisfying to see jet li kick the bad guy's ass.the action sequences are the reason people went to see the movie and the reason the movie was made. and it's awwwwwsome!!!!!!!!the fight scenes are pretty long and really gives you what you want, unlike romeo must die where the fight scenes were too far apart and boring to watch.some flaws of the movie....... it's not really a flaw but it's quite dirty and gruesome. There are scenes there where they could have left out and leave it to our imagination, we didn't need to see some of the scenes. Basically it would have been better if the movie was watchable by everyone. This is NOT a movie for kids! I don't know the rating but i think it should be rated R. for sexual content and graphic, gore violence. "},{"Title":"Look past the idea there's no plot and enjoy the action","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I was going into this movie I didnt expect a plot which is why I enjoyed it.  The entire movie has more holes than the thousand people that Jet Li takes on by himself and leaving with one scratch.  The action in the movie was some of the greatest I have seen and actually didn't involve the main character flying and killing four people in mid air which is one of the movie's qualities.  The deaths in the movie were really violent (which is my type of movie) and has the best death I have ever seen for an end of a movie, but don't worry I won't give it away, even though it doesn't really matter because there is no plot.  If you are in the mood for an enjoyable movie go see this but don't expect an academy award winning movie.FINAL RATING 7/10 "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to the sneak preview and came away very impressed. This movie, based on a story by Jet Li himself, is a great look at top achievers gone bad. The story wastes very little time on exposition --most of the info about the characters and situations is revealed piece by piece as the movie progresses-- and focuses more on the characters themselves, who are given intelligent dialogue and very true-to-life personalities. The action sequences are very imaginative and exciting (and a little gory) and are fascinating to watch; it's great to see Jet Li go up against a large number of adversaries and fight his way out. The script is well-written and contains enough twists to keep story hounds happy. The rap music is a little irksome and excessive, but since some of it fits the action so well it's acceptable. Keep your eyes open for Burt Kwouk (Kato of the Pink Panther series) as a friend of Jet Li; he does a great job. The entire cast, in fact, is good, and the villain is the perfect type the type you love to hate. Kiss Of The Dragon (I was surprised and pleased when I found out what the title actually refers to) is a very entertaining film that comes highly recommended. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Some Welcome R-Rated Action","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A welcome break from a summer movie season glossed over with CG effects and heavy-duty wire work, Kiss of the Dragon leaves flamboyancy by the wayside and instead delivers as a leaner, meaner action movie.  Here, the fights are viscerally brutal and physically intense - bones are broken, faces bruised, necks snapped, and hands bloodied.  Indeed, I found the scenes of martial arts combat far more thrilling.  Not relying on the aid of wires, Jet Li's furious fighting is all the more satisfying to watch since it is all based on his astounding skills in the martial arts.  Li is also able to bring a little razzle dazzle to the action scenes without overstepping the bounds of believability - Li's character uses laundry equipment, a flag, and even a billiard ball, along with uncanny abilities based in acupuncture to dispatch his foes.  There are some fine performances to be had in KOD to boot - Bridget Fonda shines as a tragically vunerable American expatriate turned street hooker, and Tcheky Karyo gives a terrifying turn as a psychopathic rogue French official.  The film's only weakness stems from an underdeveloped plot - at a brisk hour and 50 mins (short for a movie these days), the storyline isn't allowed enough time to mature and grab the audience.  Definitely worth seeing for the action.   "},{"Title":"Sad and let down.....","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's impossible to mention all the things that are wrong with this film! Take stale old cliches, jokes, plot-lines, add lots of loud, offensive rap songs, and mix in liberal doses of stolen ideas not worth stealing and you've got KISS OF THE DRAGON. The action scenes are much too brief, poorly filmed (NOTE Thanks Michael Bay, you have poisoned more people than you will ever know!), and with the exception of one tag-team showdown, completely forgettable! Bridget Fonda just shows up for a paycheck. Her dialog is the most wooden, phony stuff you can possibly put down on paper and refer to as dialog. Tcheky Karyo is a walking cliche and seems to know what a waste of time the film is. And, finally, Jet Li. He's talented, he's a nice guy, he has immense talent, he certainly knows martial arts......... and he's wasting his time doing films in the states. American audiences aren't ready for the Hong Kong fight-style. Instead, what we get is what hollywood THINKS is the Hong Kong style. Corey Yuen clearly is compromising his true talent and leaves us with only a taste of what he could deliver to U.S. fight fans! There are only really 2 types of great fights MATRIX-STYLE fight scenes that are so effects driven and over-the-top that you are blown away and (Mr. Jet Li, here is the important part!) Long, sustained, hand-to-hand combat. The classic fight that features a feeling out period, defined styles, the realization of the opponents technique, and finally, the adjustment to win. They don't last 2 minutes and they require much more effort than most MTV hack-director's are willing to invest. TO ALL HOLLYWOOD STUDIOS You crushed the Hong Kong star factory and stole all the top talent. when are you going to make a decent film with them??? Jet Li fans, don't let your heart break more, just watch FIST OF LEGEND again! "},{"Title":"Meinly Lo.","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd always been curious about Jet Li, having heard so much about him and was looking forward to an exciting action movie, what with the presence of the alluring Bridget Fonda, something along the lines of Point of No Return or The Bourne Identity. But the experience relieved me of any beliefs I might have had that I was in any sense with it. I thought it stank, except as an exhibit of action choreography.The plot doesn't really matter except as a predicate for the brutality. The good guys are quiet, self contained, and handsome or beautiful. The bad guys are thoroughly evil, and they look and sound evil.The bad people outnumber the good by several hundred to one or two, but that's not important. Jet Li, a presentable Chinese actor/director/writer, knows how to demolish them without panting after an encounter.A goon is about to shoot Jet Li in a pool room. Before he can get off a round, Jet Li kicks a pool ball out of its pocket with one foot, and with the other foot he kicks the pool ball hard and unerringly it bashes in the goon's forehead at a distance of a dozen or so feet. There are hints that Jet Li has supernatural powers. If he's surrounded by evil doers who glance away for a second, he's disappeared by the time they look back. In one scene he seems to outrun a bullet.Jet Li is an evocative name, even if it's not real, suggesting speed and power. Baron von Münschhausen is a name to conjure with too.It's a comic book transferred to the screen, only it's better than a comic book because you don't have to bother reading any words. You don't even have to know how to read. I can understand why this might be fun if you were watching it -- or one of its many imitations -- for the first time, and if you were in the proper state of mind. But I can also understand why the majority of high school seniors can't place the American Civil War in its correct half century and why most of us can't name our own Congressman.How dumb can you get? "},{"Title":"Entertaining if not particularly memorable","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" So many Hong Kong style films that are released nowadays are complete crap, so it's good and somewhat refreshing to find an unpretentious, old-fashioned martial arts film in the vein of Jackie Chan and Bruce Lee.Jet Li stars as an agent in Paris who finds himself entangled in a murder conspiracy, framed for another agent's death and on the run from a French bad guy. (I'll resist from making a joke about the French here.) He falls under the care (or vice versa) of an American prostitute played by Bridget Fonda, who has lost custody of her daughter to the same French baddie.The movie is convenient - particularly the romantic (?) subplot with Fonda - but nevertheless it is quite enjoyable. It has some strong action sequences, such as when Li is being pursued through Paris and ends up inside tunnels, on boats, and all sorts of other stuff.The ending is a great showdown. The N.E.R.D. song Lap Dance is played during one of the many final face-offs with bad guys, one of few reminders that at heart this really is an American film and not a good old-fashioned Hong Kong flick.Overall it's entertaining if not particularly memorable. "},{"Title":"Sufficiently entertaining, but not particularly good","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me start off by making one thing perfectly clear; I dislike Jet Li. No; I *hate* Jet Li. He's everything that's wrong with new Hollywood martial arts movies. Has he ever done a movie without wire-work? Anyone who even thinks they know the first thing about martial arts movies know of Bruce Lee. He never did wire-work(unless I have been grossly misinformed). And he was, and still is, one of the biggest names in the genre of martial arts movies. Anyway; the one reason I sat down to see this movie was because the advertisements(I saw it on TV; didn't have to pay for it, thank god) all claimed that it was directed by a man who I have immense respect and praise for, especially when it comes to action Luc Besson. Then, the movie starts, I see how painfully bland the direction is, and I go to this site to find out that it's only written by Besson. However, I decided to see it to the end, as the trivia section said that there was little to no wire-work in the movie. For you people who like Jet Li or have no special relationship to him(i.e. you don't hate him like I do), don't worry; I've decided to direct my anger, no, loathing, towards the network responsible for the false advertising, rather than at Li or the movie. So, in this review I will try to keep the hating to a minimum. Really. I will. The plot is poorly written and entirely predictable. It's badly paced and dull, as well. The acting is not particularly good, not even from Bridget Fonda, who normally turns in a pretty good performance. The characters are somewhat credible, but they're poorly written and mostly just one-dimensional clichés. The bad guy is an exceptional example of this. The dialog is decent at times, but at other times, it's painfully badly written... a preview on the phoneShe got away? She got away... how could she get away?... OK, maybe it's not the dialog itself as how poorly delivered the lines are. The humor is lame and obviously trying hard to copy the humor of Jackie Chan movies, with the whole 'different cultures' thing... of course, it fails miserably, mainly due to Li's lack of charisma and charm. The martial arts are good... about the only good thing in this movie, actually. The fights are intense, exciting and well-choreographed. Not the best I've seen, but pretty good. All in all, a decent martial arts flick, but only good for a single watch and only if you're *really* bored, or a big fan of Jet Li. Otherwise, avoid. I recommend this to fans of martial arts movies, Jet Li and action films in general. Just don't expect too much. 6/10  "},{"Title":"* *1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li stars as Liu Jian a Chinese secret service agent who goes on the lam when a corrupt French agent double crosses him and orders him dead, lots of martial arts action ensues in this slightly above average martial arts thriller. If anything else it's a definite improvement over Romeo Must Die, thanks to some excellent actionscenes and a story that while bland has it's moments. "}{"Title":"True Li style","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of The Dragon is one of the best Li's films since Fist of Legend. The action sequences are amazing and Corey Yun fight chorography if off the meat rack. Jet Li is easily proving that he's the man with every amercian flick he's done so far. Check this movie out.  "},{"Title":"Moronic","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Went to see this movie out by default for being to late for Shrek. Hmm, Jet li's in it so it might actually be good.....Dead wrong.This is one of the few films i have ever wanted to walk out of. The characters are shallow deep and cliche to the point of being laughable. I have the disadvantage of actually living in Paris, so i know what France and paris life is all about. No, we don't have mafia like Top Police Inspectors who can shoot innocent bystandards or their own sergeants and get away with it. They don't drive top of the range brand spanking new Peugeot 607, they don't do drugs and they certainly don't kidnap little children. We also dont have streets lined up with prostitutes. What the hell was Luc Besson thinking ? I can excuse an american for making all this stuff up, but a french director/producer actually supervised this and gave a green light ? Shame.... "},{"Title":"A so-so smooch of a thriller.","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ** out of ****I initially saw Kiss of the Dragon in theaters about two years ago, and left thinking I saw a pretty damn good martial arts thriller.  Having the seen film again just recently, I'm a little flustered as to what I saw in this film, and a little disheartened, too, considering prior to my second viewing, this had been my favorite Jet Li film to date (I've seen a lot of his Hong Kong flicks, the man impresses me, his movies typically don't).Li stars as Liu Juan, a Chinese Intelligence officer who's assisting a French inspector named Richard (Tcheky Karyo) on a case involving a Chinese crimelord (Ric Young).  Richard kills the crimelord, blames it on Juan, who has to go on the run in the streets of France, now a stranger in a land he's not accustomed to.  There, he teams with a prostitute with a heart of gold (Bridget Fonda), who also happens to be associated with the French inspector.  Much ass-kicking, but not a whole lot of fun, ensues.The whole point of a martial arts thriller is to deliver fast-paced fun from beginning to end.  On that simple basis alone, Kiss of the Dragon definitely doesn't succeed.  While it's true plot isn't very important to the genre, that doesn't mean it should be entirely ignored.  In this film's case, there's barely even a set-up.  Hell, we're never even told why Karyo's character kills the crimelord, which equates to watching a whole lot of innocent people dying without ever really knowing the reason why.  That's pretty frustrating.Worse yet, Kiss of the Dragon takes itself entirely seriously, with almost no hint of comic relief (closest I can figure to an attempt at a laugh is Li propping a pair of paralyzed French cops against a row of train lockers, but even that joke is ruined because Li's plan doesn't work).  There's even a scene where a crooked cop is ordered to (and he gladly obeys) to shoot up an entire Hotel lobby just to get at Li, regardless of all the bystanders in the area.  I realize these cops are corrupt, but no police officer, no matter how crooked or powerful, would actually shoot up a public place full of civilians, especially with another country involved (in this case, China).I know what you're thinking; it's a martial arts flick, let issues like that slide.  Typically, I would, but given this movie's ultra-serious tone, watching a ludicrous scene like that simply doesn't mesh.  Take The Transporter, a film made by virtually the same crew, I was able to forgive a lot of that movie's idiocies because much of the material was unpretentious and played for humor.That's not to say Kiss of the Dragon doesn't have any bright spots.  As expected, most of the fight scenes are exciting, particularly the opening fight in the hotel and the climactic two-on-one brawl in the French police station.  All credit for the movie's sucesses go to Jet Li and choreographer Corey Yuen, who keep the movie watchable with the energetic fights.Unfortunately, their efforts are marred by director Chris Nahon's obsession with quick cuts, which is definitely not the way to go when it comes to martial arts.  The joy of watching Jet Li in action is to observe how graceful and quick he is and constantly cutting away during these fights only defeats the purpose of it.  One fight in particular, set in the Chinese restaurant, is just terrible, ruined by the quick cuts and rap music.In between the fights, the film focuses on a developing relationship between Li and Fonda, and believe me, these moments are gag-inducing.  Fonda's performance relies entirely on histrionics, lots of crying and incessant rambling,  which contrasts heavily with Li's quiet and focused intensity (this works during one hilarious moment where Li tells Fonda he's not gay, just listen to his tone).There are more problems I could get into, such as Tcheky Karyo's hilariously hard-boiled performance as the corrupt French inspector.  His over-the-top delivery and wildly idiotic actions make for probably the dumbest character Karyo has ever played.  And though Li is quietly charismatic, he doesn't make half the impression Jason Statham did in The Transporter.  But at least most of the fights are fun, making this Kiss one that's alternately sweet and repellant. "},{"Title":"Nice action/acting","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very good movie.The violence is a bit on the brutal side but it suites the dark feel of the movie.Everyone in this movie does a good job, no weak links in the acting department.Bridget Fonda makes a great and believable prostitute and jet li is his usual amazing and charming self. Tchéky Karyo is brutal in his role as the corupt cop, man i like this guy.Real good police/corruption story blended perfectly with action/kung-fu.Excellent production standards for style.I hope to see a lot more Jet Li movies with these high quality production values,and interesting storys. "},{"Title":"Something I've never done","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm about to do something I've never done. I'm going to review this film after having turned if off about 15 minutes in.You don't have to ignore this review; just read it while keeping in mind the caveat that I turned Kiss of the Dragon off, 15 minutes in.It's simple really 15 minutes in, I had no idea where the flick was headed. Now, the usual retort is to point out that a lot of flicks do that They defer spelling out the underlying key plot points quite a ways into the flick. So why do I refuse to cut KotD the kind of slack that is due to a slow-burn sizzler storyline?Because KotD doesn't sizzle. In fact, one gets the sense that Besson is fully aware of the need to create tension of one kind or another in order to sustain things while the viewer gathers the data which will eventually pay off in a stunner revelation. But the data stream is... well, I was about to say bizarre... but bizarre is good! In fact, it might be a good idea at this point to mention his La Femme Nikita (the film). It sustains for a good, long while until the data is gathered because the leading action is bizarre *enough*. There's an amazing firehose of bizarrerie that keeps you alert and pondering, until the air clears and all the necessary pieces fall into place; well, at least, enough of the pieces to apprise you of the fact that you're watching an actual story.KotD opens with an unsatisfying, disconnected cubistic salad of cloak/daggerish visual and verbal cues, gangster scenarios, a hookers/john sequence that floats in an utter void, and a weird, utterly inexplicable 180 degree turnabout in the relationship between the crime boss and the new recruit--10 minutes into their relationship--which can't even be explained away as a spurious psychopathic lark on the part of the crime boss, let alone as a natural concomitant of the recruit's actions.I suppose that, if I'd hung with it, I'd've been able to metabolize that salad in some fashion. But, 15 minutes in, my question to myself was, Why bother?In the stuff I describe above, I don't mention Jet Li's lovely martial arts moves. And I left them out for a reason; because I wanted to preserve them from the disreputable notion that Besson thought they'd suffice to keep the viewer's attention.I think reviewing the first 15 minutes of this flick was worth doing-- there was so much to say!--so I did it. I hope you understand. "},{"Title":"Richard What did you do to me?","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Liu Jian I put a needle in your neck. Richard That's it? Liu Jian It's called the Kiss of the Dragon.There are some Martial Arts movies that have tremendous fight scenes and crap scripts, or it has a class script but no action. This is the top where it has a good easy script that makes sense and some of the best martial arts I've seen since the time of Bruce Lee (Unarguably the greatest martial arts fighter in the world).Jet Li is f****** bad ass as he uses snooker balls, chopsticks and tables to take out the opposition. Bridget Fonda is nice and you do feel sorry for her as she takes beatings after beatings. Inspector Richard, complete and utter a**hole, perfect villain. My mate who owns the movie said to me if they did sequels to the movie every 2 years or so, it could have been the James Bond of Martial Arts.And the truth is it does have the potential for it to happen. Get this movie, watch it and f****** love it. Especially the fight against Twin 1. "},{"Title":"Dull and not entertaining in the slightest, even as a pointless action flick","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Eh, not much to say on this one. The plot is more or less nonexistent, or one can argue that it exists, but only to set up for a few action scenes, which are mediocre at best. The 'music' is horrible and doesn't fit the movie at all. The dialog is weak and contrived. The only salvageable plot point in the whole movie is Jessica (Bridget Fonda) trying to get her daughter back.What I want to know is who thought it would be cool to have a martial arts class in the hotel where Richard is, as well as who thought it would be plausible that they would up and fight him, as if they knew anything that was going on&#133; A *little* over the top is an understatement&#133;And the final question is, if blood seeping from the eyes, ears, and nose is the trademark of the 'kiss of the dragon', then why does that only happen in the last scene with Liu Jian (Jet Li) and Richard (Tchéky Karyo)?But I guess we can just through continuity in there with things this movie lacks.VERDICT Unfulfilling and weak. Not one of Jet Li's better films, but not the worst either. A good way to waste time if it happens to be on TV and you leave it on while doing other things around the house. I'd recommend it to Bridget Fonda fans, as that was the primary reason I went ahead and rented it, but not to Jet Li fans. There isn't that much action, and what's there isn't that great. So take it from me and don't waste your money&#133;just let this one pass.3.0 out of 10.0 "},{"Title":"Breezy action-thriller, a superb vehicle for Jet Li","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" KISS OF THE DRAGON Aspect ratio 2.391 (Technovision)Sound formats Dolby Digital Surround EX / DTS-ESWhilst on assignment in Paris, a Beijing detective (Jet Li) falls foul of a corrupt police officer (Tchéky Karyo) who turns out to be the European connection for a notorious Chinese drug lord.Music video specialist Chris Nahon (EMPIRE OF THE WOLVES) made his feature debut with this handsome martial arts thriller, co-produced by Luc Besson as a vehicle for Chinese superstar Li, who also takes a producing credit. In fact, Besson's script (co-written by Robert Mark Kamen) is based on a treatment by Li, whose work is bolstered by sumptuous production values and a Parisian setting which throbs with its own unique vibe, placing a mighty distance between this film and many other East-Meets-West action vehicles (HARD TARGET, ROMEO MUST DIE, MAXIMUM RISK, etc.). As expected, the convoluted plot serves as a conduit from one set-piece to the next, and Corey Yuen's explosive choreography is greatly facilitated by expert camera-work (Thierry Arbogast) and razor-sharp editing (Marco Cavé and Yseult Huret). Watch out for Li's ferocious showdown with twin hulks Cyril Raffaelli and Didier Azoulay! Bridget Fonda is miscast as a prostitute who gets caught up in the unfolding action, while Karyo plays a similar character to the one he essayed in Jan Kounen's demented gore-fest DOBERMANN (1997), though his climactic death scene isn't nearly as horrific as the one in that earlier film! Li himself is remarkably dignified in a role which allows him rather more dramatic leeway than many of his Hong Kong movies (the interplay between him and Fonda is often quite touching), and Nahon takes full advantage of Li's cool beauty and iconic bearing. Action fans will lap it up, though the film is marred by a streak of sadistic violence at odds with the comic book narrative. "},{"Title":"A star vehicle that makes no sense at all","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  But is not surprising cause this seems to be reason nr. 1 in star vehicles.The movie is totally based on Jet Li's fighting skills which are pretty good but no where near the king of martial arts Bruce Lee or Jackie Chan.The film is totally shot in Paris,which gives the feeling of a free commercial for the city.This is not necessary since Paris is,to me,the most beautiful city in the world. Anyway,the movie makes no sense at all and this is strange since Luc Besson is involved,the man who made Leon.The script is full with holes and only after 15 or 20 minutes the line story gets clear.In the first part of the movie you have idea what it's about and that's pretty frustrating.The acting is inferior of course since the whole movie is centered on Jet Li and he can't act! The others try but doesn't help much.Bridget Fonda shows of her nice body but that's about it.Tcheky Karyo(most famous for his bad guy role in Bad Boys)is maybe the best actor of the bunch,but even he gives away a pretty lame performance.I never understood the fuzz about Jet Li.To me he is a mediocre fighter and an awful actor.Sure Lee and Chang can't act either but they have the skills and the humor.Jet Li is absolutely humorless!Paris saved it a little bit.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Bridget Fonda & Jet Li Burned Up The Screen!","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"                  This was a great action film with wonderful photography all around the City of Paris, France.  Some of the scenes had tourists running for their lives as Jet Li(Liu Jian),Cradle 2 the Grave,'03,fought off his many enemies right in front of the Eiffel Tower and a tourist sightseeing boat.  There was lots of blood and gore through out the entire picture.   Bridget Fonda,(Jessica),Monkeybone,'01, gave a very outstanding performance as a hooker and greatly involved with the crooked police and the great desire to be a caring and loving mother of her baby girl.  Jessica runs into Liu Jian in a Chinese establishment and all kinds of hell breaks loose, she even attempts to pee in public which gets Liu Jian's complete attention.  If you like Bridget Fonda and Jet Li films, this is the film for you! "}{"Title":"My apologies if my comments are a little disjointed I have one eye on the F1 qualifying.","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw the adverts for Kiss of the Dragon I thought that Luc Besson had truly run out of ideas. What was this supposed to be, the third film in the La Femme Nikita/Point of No Return box set, with Jet Li thrown in to take advantage of the public's fascination with Matrix and Crouching Tiger... style gravity-defying martial arts? And although as far as I'm concerned the jury is still out with regard to Besson as a cutting edge writer/director (I sincerely hope that his best work is not behind him--it seems all he's been doing these last half-dozen years is producing), Kiss... is still worth owning just for the scene at the police academy No strings attached--just a couple of (night) sticks. Gotta love it. "},{"Title":"Jet Li's version of Frantic","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the perfect action combination of east meets west. Jet Li and his fighting skills hit Paris, France and the movie features great fighting scenes and cool Paris shoots. It reminded me of Frantic when Ford wandered into the criminal underworld of Paris. Jet Li does similar and again, we love to hate the bad frenchmen. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic!!!!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just want to ask Chris who finds this movie funny, if he has watched an action film, based on reality? If u are an action movie fan, u have to forget the word 'logic'. Simple as this! 'Kiss of the Dragon' is really a good film. Jet Li can act, Bridget Fonda does a good job. She is very convincing. But the best is Tcheky Karyo. He is a gifted actor, i feel sorry that he doesnt get the attention which he certainly deserves. When u are watching the movie, u can easily relate Liu's or Jessica's world. They are two lonely people in this big, terrible world. One side of me admired the strength of Liu, the other side wanted to give him a big hug and say that he is not alone... Jessica is another story... Her angel daughter is kidnapped by evil Richard. So she has to work as a prostitute for him. The real heartbreaking part of the story is they were dating and then she was on the streets. She trusted him and look what happened... By the way soundtrack of the film is also fantastic! My advice is dont miss it!!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"it actually had a plot!","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  KISS OF THE DRAGON is JET LI's best film hand's down. The film is a kinetic ballet of action and martial arts. The films plot revolves around corrupt drug running french cops and a chinese government operative framed for murder in france. With original and likeable characters this film is fun to watch and even more enjoyable in a second showing. The saving grace of this film is the tie in with the makers of LA FEMME NIKITA, THE FIFTH ELEMENT, COMMANDO, and THE PROFESSIONAL; their presence is felt on this film. Another saving grace is the martial arts style of jet li, who is the most interesting martial artist since BRUCE LEE and SONY CHIBA. Fans of action and martial arts will love this film. If you liked ROMEO MUST DIE, then this film will be up your alley.  "},{"Title":"Swift action, smooth plot, awesome movie","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was all about promise. I like the way Jet Li put the A in action movies. Bridget Fonda was excellent as the hooker witness who has helped Li's character learn that there's more to life than work. I was surprised that Burt Kwok from the Pink Panther movies was on. He finally played someone serious other  than KATO!!! The ending of the movie was great, it left me to wonder what will Li's character do after he returns the daughter from that crooked French policeman. That story will be left for the viewer to know. Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly excellent *minor spoilers*","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect from this movie when I first caught it on cable, but I got completely sucked in from the first fight sequence and now own the DVD. The scenery, the script, the acting is pretty much spot-on the entire movie. I think this is hands down Jet Li's best American film and features some of the most violent, jawdropping martial arts I've ever seen. And be warned..this movie is pretty damn violent. Excellent...favorite scenes Jet Li fighting the twins near the movie's climax, the meaning of kiss of the dragon, and the look on Jet Li's face when he walks into the martial arts class. At times really funny, and rather moving, it's a really good view of one man fighting against a culture he feels alienated from. Much better than a simple fish-out-of-water tale. 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Jet Li returns in one of the finest action films of the decade","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I personally hated Jet Li after seeing Romeo Must Die. It was pure crap in my opinion. But then I decided to give Kiss Of the Dragon a try, and I wa very pleasantly surprised. KOD not only marks Li's return to form, but I think it is one of the best martial arts films I've seen in about a decade. The film has a strong plot, and it actually showcases Jet's acting abilities much more than his previous Hollywood blockbusters ever did.He stars as a top cop from Beijing sent to work in Paris. Tchecy Karyo steals the show once again as a corrupt cop called Richard, who sets up Li and then sends his men out to kill him, making him a fugitive. Along the way Li picks up a junkie hooker played by Bridget Fonda, and the two set out to bring Richard down and get her daughter back, who has been taken hostage by Richard and his men.Karyo is always menacing and brilliant, and this movie will show just how underrated an actor he really is. He is mean and brutal in this movie and fits the role of the bad guy perfectly. Fonda is also in great form, and it's wonderful to see her playing a 'real' character again.Jet Li is in top form in KOD. It's great to see him showing off his phenomenal martial arts skills on screen again, and there are some great fights in the movie. One of the main reasons I gave this film a chance, however, is Luc Besson. And this movie is very much his movie. It reminds me alot of his 'style' of filmmaking, as seen in The Professional (another brilliant film), and I feel that director Chris Nahon did as good a job of directing the movie as Besson could have done himself.At least there were no singers or cheesy pop songs in this one. The movie is dark, vicious and visually impressive. The location is unique for this type of actioner. Overall, I recommend this film to all fans of Jet Li, or who want to see some spectacular fight sequences on screen. You will find more than you would expect with this excellent film. Way to go Jet Li! Now I only have to decide whether to go see Cradle 2 The Grave or not... "},{"Title":" perfect action-suspense film","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  jet li is at his finest in this action movie. this film is his best i believe. bridget fonda is awesome. tcheky karyo was astonishing as the villain richard. the action will make you want it to go on forever. i would give kiss of the dragon 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very watchable","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has to be currently the best film Jet Li has made in the West.The only flaw is the plot. What is this film about? One feels loathe to pick holes in the story as Jet Li himself was responsible, so I won't. The film has otherwise lots of good things.The acting is great, particularly Bridget Fonda who is very believable as the prostitute, sad and gritty and deep. Even in her bleakest moments there is a strange kind of radiance. Tcheky Karyo was good as usual. The great Burt Kwouk was not on the screen long enough, but it is always good to see him in proper acting roles. The white haired twins were good and it was fun to see John Forgeham as an over weight villain. British viewers will remember him from the soap opera Crossroads in the seventies.Jet Li is excellent. The man has such charisma that even when he is doing things like buying a ticket or walking across a hotel lobby he is very watchable. The fight scenes, staged by the legendary Corey Yuen, are great. This is Mr Li in full power mode, graceful and deadly, taking on all comers. Hardly any wire work, just full on physical combat. I think Jet Li has almost reached Bruce Lee-like status but that might be a controversial statement.Photographically Paris looks lovely, the editing is fast and furious, the music is OK. A very watchable film. It had me gripped. And the Kiss of the Dragon bit is perfect.  "},{"Title":"excellent martial arts/espionage thriller","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *possible spoilers herein*I honestly can't say that I know as much about Jet Li as I would like to know (the only other major movie I've seen with him is Romeo Must Die which was also very good, but not quite as comparable). What I can say is that this is one of the better martial arts movies I have seen recently. I saw this movie two summers when it first came out (I believe the second day that it was in theaters) and I saw it again a few months ago. It has easily forced it's way into my heart as one of my favorite action flicks. What I really liked the most about this film is that it sorta took a few steps back from the special effects-ridden cliches that are  nowadays almost the staple for most martial arts movies (popularized by the likes of the Matrix-needless to say, and an almost endless chorus of others like it including Crouching Tiger, etc., etc.). Not to say that these special-effects aren't cool, but after a while, the formula tends to wear thin and just become standard cliche. Albeit, there were a few somewhat implausible sequences in the movie (i.e.- the infamous kicking the pool ball at the guy head scene or the fight with all of the black belts in the police precinct towards the end) but it was still a bit more believe than what we've been bombarded with in recent times. The plot was slightly more developed than most Jet-Li (and presumably most martial arts/action) flicks as it was a bit confusing at the beginning (I'm still in the grey about how exactly Jet Li was able to figure out so quickly that Richard was the real bad guy), but ultamitlely we see some cool stunts and some excellent fighting scenes which is what matters at the end. Bridget Fonda tries somewhat successfully to add emotional appeal to the movie as the destitute hooker who is victim of Richards abuses, but again it is sill Jet Li who steals the show gets the last horrah in the end. The ending is a bit gory, but if you can handle the likes of cheesy teen-horror flicks like the overrated Scream series, you shouldn't have a serious problem with this. Anyway, like I usually say at the end of my lovely little critiques, see this movie for yourself and make up your own mind about it.One more thought before I go I actually have a poster of the movie that was supposedly autographed by Jet Li. The funny thing is that I got it from a friend who got it from one his friend back at home who had supposedly gone to see the world premiere of the movie. Now, this poster has already gone through three different hands including mine, making me doubt if it had been a really signature. Anyway, it doesn't matter to me, I just find it kinda strange. Possible food for thought if nothing else.    "}{"Title":"OK of its kind","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Saw this instead of A.I. one day. Watchable, entertaining, if a bit far-fetched. Li was more interesting in LETHAL WEAPON IV. Maybe he ought to stick to playing villains. And as much as I like Fonda, she did not totally convince me of the validity of her character -- if that makes any sense. I think you will know what I mean when you see this. "},{"Title":"Kiss this","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kiss of the Dragon is just more of the same Jet Li. In this flick, Li plays a super cop from China who arrives in Paris on a mission. From there it turns itself into the usual convoluted mess with kung fooey as nauseam. Fonda is a bright spot in this ordinary flick as a likeable hooker who wants no more than to be reunited with her little girl (sniff, sniff). Bottom line? If you like Jet Li flicks, you'll like this one. If you don't, stay away. If you do watch, be sure to stick around for the ending. (C+) "},{"Title":"Great action with a story that goes nowhere","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Luc Besson and Jet Li team up to make an action movie. As sensible as that may sound something went terribly wrong in the process. Somehow they managed to forget that even cheesy action movies need some kind of story. I've seen music videos having a better story than this one. The central function of a story is to tell us something, and even if cheesy action movies seldom penetrate very deeply into human nature, they usually manage to tell us simple things like Why a man was killed and why Jet Li's character is set up to take the blame. That is by the way the main story of the movie and the reason why Li's character is put in numerous unrealistic scuffles and shootings.The only reason I gave this movie 2/10 is because of the action scenes. Here we get what to expect from Jet Li teamed up with Besson. Unfortunately everything else, in lack of better wording, pretty much sucks. If you want to see 98 minutes of surprisingly scarce and pointless, but sometimes entertaining action sequences, I can recommend this film. Otherwise stay away from it. "},{"Title":"Awful Movie...","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jet Li is capable of so much more than what was offered in Kiss of the Dragon. This film's plot is amateur and contrived and it is left to Li to carry the film. Tcheky Karyo is a incredible actor...too bad this wasn't the film for him show it. There are some good moments but they are few.The worst part of the movie was that they used the rapper Mystikal in places where he wasn't needed such as the final fight sequence. If you are a fan of Jet Li or Besson don't bother spending the money seeing it the theater just rent it on "},{"Title":"Workout for the pituitary and adrenal glands","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The action scenes in this movie are flawless. The brutal fight with the black man in the restaurant is absolutely adrenalising. Jane Fonda is way out beyond raunchy. Tchéky Karyo is hilariously evil as the baddie. This film is all about the sleazy atmosphere and the fighting; it is very very special. The fight that Li has with the twins at the end literally made me whoop out loud. And let me tell you that I was watching this movie past midnight in a house of sleeping people and that I am an art-house fan. In the cinema I would have clapped. Let me tell you about Tchéky Karyo's character, Inspector Richard, the man had a pet tortoise that he kept locked in his desk draw with an apple and some water. His idea of fun was to take it out, put it on its back and watch it struggle, how crazy is that? And whilst this movie is genuinely nasty, it does actually involve moments of extreme calculated hilarity, such as the opening of the locker and the walk into the dojo, i was rolling on the floor. One of the great hallmarks of Jet Li's electrifying one-on-one fight scenes is that you actually sense murder in the air, something that astonished me when I first saw him in Bodyguard from Beijing.The only other movie I can think to compare it with is Hardboiled, which has similarly has an atmosphere of jaw-dropping hysteria about the action. "},{"Title":"Just another Jet Li film","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a huge fan of martial arts films as a rule, but even without a huge knowledge base I can say that Kiss of the Dragon is nothing too special. All I can say is that it delivers what it promises - crazy stunts, some memorable fight sequences, plenty of action and a wafer-thin plot and superficial characters. So in escapist terms, it's fun.It's based on a story by Jet Li about an intelligence officer who gets betrayed by the French government and must set out to prove his innocence. Jet Li plays the officer while Tcheky Karyo is his stereotypically evil villain. Bridget Fonda turns in a shallow performance as the prostitute who is befriended by Li and ends up helping him.Obviously the film is neither plot nor character-driven, and a lot of the action sequences work well. The final fight scene between Li and Karyo is one of the most ultra-violent and yet most interesting action scenes from recent times. It does make you cringe at times, but overall it is satisfying for fans. Personally I think Jet Li has real charisma on screen and his on-screen skill and dexterity easily make up for the lack of plot, acting, or clever dialogue. Not good but entertaining. *** / ***** "},{"Title":"I can't wait till the end....so i can leave the cinema and get away from this cursed movie","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Shocking, unbearable film by the famous, if not, pityful Jet Li who, quite disturbingly, bears more resemblance to a pirated CD salesman from Sham Shui Po rather than an international superstar.There really is not much to say about this movie, perhaps it is because the actors only start talking twenty minutes into the movie or perhaps it is because this movie is a fetid stink pot of mephitic rubbish.  In retrospect the latter seems to be a more probable explanation.Quite unfortunately even the likes of the ubiquituos and out-of-place Bridget Fonda cannot pull this movie out of the depths of movie hell.  Her place in this movie is as about as unreassuring as her acting in The Point Of No Return, a movie essentially based on the coma-inducing adventures and exploits of the formidable La Femme Nikita.  This movie probably passes its point of no return some where in the first 15 seconds of the movie when I realised I just wasted ten bucks which I will never see again.  Fonda plays a whimpering unsuccessful hooker inThe plot itself is about as weak as a cafe late from Chinatown.  And just when I thought Mission Impossible did not make any sense another movie has to step in.  Honestly, can't Jet Li make a decent movie for once?  That's what I was asking myself after watching this movie and remembering the mortifying Romeo Must Die film.  The answer my friends is really quite simple, no, that's right Jet Li is utterly hopless.  He should go back to acting school with Chow Yun Fat and get cracking.I could go on forever talking about the actors' impossible acents coupled with their mumbling bumbling voices, the poor soundtrack (what is jet li's obsession of rap music during fighting scenes?), down right bad acting, plot for crap, and an all-round BAD movie, so bad you could actually call home about it.  But no, I will stop now and let you waste your money going to watch this movie, if you have not already - which you probably have done.3/10 I was going to give it 2, but I'll give it an extra one point for the good ummm, the good uuuuuummmm.  On second thought I ll just give it a 2. "},{"Title":"Stupid, insipid movie","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the dumbest movies I have seen. What little plot there is relies mainly on the fight scenes to tie the movie together. Basically, the movie jumps from one fight scene to the next, each one more unbelievable. It gets to be a bit tiresome watching one guy fighting a roomful of adversaries while each bad guy politely waits untilits his turn to get knocked around. Shades of Chuck Norris! The story is written in the typically heavy-handed far eastern style which makes all westerners into either bad guys or ignorant bumpkins. After watching for a while, I actually got bored with the whole thing.One more point about this movie (and this applies to others as well) People who know nothing about guns should not be allowed to make movies that depict guns and actors who don't know how to use a gun properly should not be allowed to act in them.  "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointing!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of all of the Jet Li movies I have seen, this was far and away the worst! The plot was full of holes, random irrelevancies, and unexplored plot points (like what exactly was the mission about to begin with!?). The female protagonist is so shallow and annoying that I got the impression that Bridget Fonda couldn't even believe she had such corny ridiculous lines...she looked rather embarrassed through the whole performance, I thought.The fight scenes were well choreographed, though, and there was quite a bit of humor that made sitting through the awful parts of the movie bearable. I have come to expect a higher standard for Mr. Li's work, and hope that this is just an aberration.  "},{"Title":"Lucky You for Not Seeing This Film","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was quite disappointed with the hype surrounding the film, especially with Jet Lee's interview where he said the action scene in the film doesn't use special effect at all. Ok, fair enough, the action is real, but that's about the only good thing in the film.First of all, the story is so typical of Hong Kong action, where there's this one good guy surrounded by a whole bunch of bad guys wanting to kill him, and he's got this innocent and helpless girl who needs his protection, or maybe he feels he's obligated to protect her, or whatever.And then there's the action. It doesn't use special effect, true, but the camera work is so bad it's hard to follow the action. The shots are too close to be enjoyed properly. All I saw was Jet Lee kicking around and his opponents fell down one by one, without knowing what really happened to them.Thirdly, the acting. Boy, the acting was so bad it actually makes the film feels silly. Most of the cast are either Chinese or French, with one exception in the American Bridget Fonda. The actors don't really speak good english, so it feels funny to see them either speak too slowly, or try to speak fast without realizing that their english is hard to understand.And of course, the violence is just too gory. One scene shows a guy got blown up by a grenade and all that is left is his legs. It's totally unnecessary.Combine all the factors above and you got one really cheap-looking and mindless film.  "}{"Title":"The day that Jet Li saved Paris from being bombed by China...","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Did anyone else think that this was the waste of a movie?  Granted, the fight scenes were great but I would have expected more out of someone who did a neat flick like 5th Element.Inspector Gadget is evil and is running the ho's and pimps of Paris (it must have been that American English Speaking part that produces farm girls such as Bridgette Fonda).  Also, if you beat up anyone in Paris, a large man comes out and rips off his shirt to beat you up.Oh, and what China meets Paris flick is not complete without really popular American rap music. "},{"Title":"The reason why current American martial arts movies stink","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like Jet Li.  I think his martial arts is incredible. He's fast and his technique is original.  But the last few USA movies he's been in is just the pits.I grew up in the 80's when the USA ninja movies reigned king.  Where Kosugi made you want to be a ninja. Nobody remembers the plot of the movies but the action sequences were incredible. Now in the 21 century  we hope martial arts movies have evolved some what.This movie has horrible acting, with characters totally unsympathetic, the soundtrack is inappropriate (rap music in a martial arts movie set in France), the plot is nonexistance, the violence is over the top with people being blown in half and bleeding from every orfice. All this would be forgivable if there was more martial arts fighting versus Jet Li dodging bullets and hiding in tunnels.I hope that producers/directors when they make future martial arts movies that people want to see fighting.  If you are going to write a story behind it fine, but if it stinks focus on the fighting.What a shame that the only person who gets it is Jackie Chan.I hope the next superstar from China emulates Jackie chan versus Jet Li.  "},{"Title":"Too many Plot Holes Spoil Movie.","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The storyline/plot in this film make absolutely no sense at all. For example, why does the French Detective turn on our hero Jet Li?Why is Jet Li brought from China for a routine drugs bust?Why wont the main villain let the girl and her daughter go home?If you're considering buying this movie on the idea that it displays Jet Li at his best DONT. Try instead to get hold of the uncut version of Fist of Legend (Ritek Version), which is not dubbed and has English subtitles.F.O.L. shows Li at his Martial Arts best.  "},{"Title":"Kiss of the poorly written script","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, so nobody goes to see Kung-Fu movies because they want a cerebral dramatic experience.  Usually, we're comfortable watching kung-fu movies if there's plenty of action and some melodrama.   That having been said, I thoroughly enjoyed watching this movie for Jet Li's bad-assed wire-fighting action.  It was your standard sort of fun action flick until about 3/4 through the movie when Bridget Fonda opens her mouth and ruins the movie.  It's not completely her fault as no actor could have made that dialogue sound realistic.  Anyway, that little 1-2 minute speech of hers just before the denouement killed the rest of the film for me. The actual Kiss of the Dragon was pretty cool though. "}]