[{"Title":"The Farcical Castle","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"96 out of 152 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Last Castle was a good movie - until it got pillow-fartingly ridiculous.A military prison. Warden Tony Soprano. (Anyone who writes to me, explaining the distinction between an actor's character name and his real name will get a reply explaining the distinction between hebetude and tongue-in-cheek.) New inmate profusely-decorated 3-star general Robert Redford. Theme Battle-theorist (Tony, battle memorabilia collector) versus battle veteran (Redford, whose field credits include the Gulf and other inane political coups). Premise Inmate Redford takes a dislike to the way Warden Tony disses his marine and army peeps behind bars, so launches a prison revolt, inmates rallying behind him due to his iron-fisted reputation and rakish good looks.Let the farce begin.Requisite character stereotypes abound Aguilar, the dim bulb; Yates, the amoral prison bookie; the fallen-from-grace doctor, the big black guy, the big white guy, the big guy of uncertain ethnic descent and the token Latino guy. Redford coaxes The Patriot from this ragtag band of uncertain heroes, twisting Tony's panties into cat's cradles in the process.For we who came to see Tony Soprano bust a move other than his renowned Gansta Rap, we were not prepared for the impotent swab his warden character turned out to be - even as a 'character actor playing against type', Tony was reined in by director Joe Lurie to such an extent that even when the situation warranted explosive retaliation during the siege, Tony simply sulked around his crumbling office in a prissy rage.Saluting is not allowed amongst prisoners in a military prison - something to do with loss of rank and lack of hairspray. Redford's clichéd one-liners evokes inmate-saluting soon enough, causing big trouble in Little Italy. Which leads to Redford's punishment to bare his virile, octogenarian man-torso (we're talking' carpet-chest that makes Paul Stanley's look like a bowling green) and to move a pile of rocks from here to there. With his blond ambition and undeniable desirability to prison men of all persuasions, Redford turns this punishment into yet another spectacle with which to win over the hearts of his fellow crims.All the philosophy, chess-playing and tough love comes from the convicted criminal in this film - Redford - so the viewer is cajoled into rooting for the WRONG side. The attempts at tear-jerking and patriotism and brotherhood are completely misplaced by the fact that this bake sale is held - in a JAIL. And the good guys.are the bad guys. When was the last time you supported a prison revolt, replete with murder and destruction of taxpayer property, cheering on the cons in their noble cause to usurp authority?Redford uses Tony's own armaments against him; the water-cannon, the trebuchet (the wha-?). This last weapon turned up out of nowhere, like Monty Python's Trojan Rabbit, when the plot had degenerated to guys running around and burning things, and the director thought no one would notice the appearance of a construct that literally cannot be hidden anywhere on prison grounds. (The Great Escape this ain't.) Checkmate is to capture the warden's American flag and fly it upside down, which denotes a distress signal, a concept which they make abundantly clear through the dialog of about twenty people. Okay - I heard you the SEVENTH time - so if the American flag winds up flying upside down, nobody's a terrorist or anti-American - sheesh!To cap this farce with the seal of disbelief, these guys don't even want to escape - they just want another warden. I got news for you, guys the warden may change, but the JOB-DESCRIPTION remains the same, i.e. it's his DUTY to retain your low self-esteem, disorientation and to KEEP YOU IN JAIL. Changing the management amounts to nothing more than amending the names on the doors and letterheads. Of all people, you military perps should understand that in contravening The System's laws, you yourselves have empowered The System to isolate you from it.A prison is NOT a democracy - at least, not the last time I was in one. Since when do we grant prisoners the expertise to diagnose anti-social behavior in a warden? Or the inalienable right to OVERTHROW the prison if they don't like the conditions? Yeh, jail sucks - it's meant to!In the final scene, Redford flashbacks to his Sundance Kid days, as an army trains their rifles on him in the rec yard, waiting for the word from Don Soprano to bake his ziti. Redford carries the folded flag stolen from Tony's office, and word on the street was that he was gonna raise that puppy upside down, thereby broadcasting Tony's incompetence to the Five Families. So Tony must stop him at all costs; he faces Redford, staunchly 'Give me back my flag!'Redford 'It's not 'your' flag.' Ouch! - now that was so patriotic, it made my thighs supple. Sundance strides to the flagpole and resolutely starts raising the flag, as Tony is screaming at his men to shoot him down - but of course, each rifleman's dreams were now rife with frolicking in that snowy-white chest-jungle with the blue-eyed avenger-general who defied a mob boss. They lower their weapons - and it is up to The Jersey Godfather to whack Boy Redford. Of course, he is arrested immediately by his lieutenant; something to do with The Law - The Law which they suddenly want to adhere to, after not giving it a moment's thought during the last hour's siege.Camera pans up the flagpole and - the flag is flying, proud and true - RIGHT SIDE UP. And the convicts salute it. And the guards salute it. And the music swells, as Redford dies with a smile, flag fluttering in battle-smoke breeze, cheese glutting all Exit doors.Probably the best advice one could offer to someone contemplating viewing this movie - Fuggedaboudit!(Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"Redford has the ability to fade","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"67 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Redford's ability to fade into a character is profound. Sometimes an actor who has been in the business a very long time will become larger than any role he plays... John Wayne for example (with a couple of exceptions). He becomes Eugene Irwin in this movie. This movie isn't about Redford's character, just like The Legend of Bagger Vance isn't really about Bagger Vance. The Last Castle is about honor to one's self and honor among soldiers, even if they are prisoners. James Gandolfini's portrayal of a colonel who knows nothing of this honor or brotherhood is excellent. He makes you despise his character. Colonel Winters is a deeply disturbing study of corrupt power and jealousy of others' glory. A fine ensemble cast of characters make this movie well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Wait for this to reach cable","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"40 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have eagerly awaited my chance to see The Last Castle. I thought the previews looked interesting and at the very least I loved The Rock and think Redford is great so I figured this movie would be good. Heck I almost skipped paying the $4 rental fee to just buy the DVD. Glad I didn't.Despite what others may believe, I feel that this movie strongly apes Shawshank Redemption and other heretofore well-tramped ground. We have a  power-hungry, egocentric warden, a quiet, reserved new prisoner who was quite successful on the outside and whose previous life is known of by his inmates. And a struggle of wits, warden vs. prisoner plays out like a game of chess. Interesting to note, both Shawshank and Last Castle incorporate chess as the greatest battle of wits...I doubt the similarity is coincidental.The acting is good...I won't take that away from the film. The characters are relatively believable and the actors handle their roles well. The problem with this film is that it relies too much on illogical or contradictory ideas to move itself along. Ok, first the title the last castle is contradicted again and again as Redford keeps saying that anywhere you raise the flag and say you can't take this away from me is a castle. It's almost the theme of the film and it directly contradicts the title...seems like a case of a line too good to throw out, even though it really does not fit.Also, Redford demonstrates a great deal of respect to the warden but speaks very harshly of him when the warden is simply removed to the other room to grab a book to have signed. Redford criticizes the warden in a most uncivil way right in front of the warden and it just doesn't make sense...it's completely unlike the character to do so. But there has to be some animosity between the two and that was the easiest way to do it...illogical yes, but whatever gets the action moving, right? The guards are also painfully one-dimensional. We get a glimpse early on that the captain is a good guy forced to do bad things but all that we know of the snipers, etc. is that they enjoy shooting prisoners and that the warden enjoys manipulating everyone within the walls. A scene that showed them to be human, to have any feeling other than hate for prisoners, would make them far more believable and make the story that much better...again, this is an action movie and moving the story along fast is key not a logical progression of events, not keeping the promise to show both sides of the story made in the opening scenes.In short, this movie is woefully inconsistent. Is it filled with good action sequences, especially for a prison movie. Is it entertaining...sure, it's not bad. But as a film, a piece of art, it just does not pass muster...in their attempts to push this movie onto the screen the film makers simply left too much out and obviously did not spend enough time developing the script. It has so much potential and so little payoff. A 6 in my book. "},{"Title":"This Castle Needs Demolished","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"36 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film starts with some information on castles  They`ve been around for a thousand years , they contained garrisons and flags and were built to keep out intruders . Yes indeed I can confirm this , castles are very old and they were built to keep people out . As THE LAST CASTLE continues we learn lots of other interesting information like bullets can travel very fast and can kill you ( No sh*t ) and where saluting comes from . What I didn`t learn was anything about the military prison where it`s set or about the inmates which is a major disadvantage seeing as the movie revolves around a military prisonI`ve no idea how the United States treats servicemen who`ve fallen foul of the law , but I do know how Britain treats hers . In Britain servicemen commiting minor infractions are usually sent to the  Glasshouse  ( Every military base has its own ) while for more serious disciplinary matters like testing positive for drugs or going AWOL British servicemen are sent to the military prison at Colchester for a period ranging from a few days to several months after which they`re returned to their regiment or discharched from the military . For more serious crimes like murder , rape etc servicemen are sentanced by a civilian court of law and this is what confused me about THE LAST CASTLE - Why are the inmates sentanced to many years in a military prison ? Wouldn`t they be sent to a state prison ? Not only that but if it`s a military prison wouldn`t it be a disciplined environment ? The one seen here is no different than any other one you see in cinema with all the inmates hanging around the yard , all aged in their mid 20s to late 40s and all hanging with their own ethnic groups . I often found myself forgetting this was a military prison for large chunks of time and was only reminded it was run by the military when the action cut to Col Winter`s office!!!!! SPOILERS !!!!!The actual plot of THE LAST CASTLE is about the battle of wills between the prison commander Col Winter and new arrival General Irwin . Irwin was a hero from Vietnam ( I wonder if he`s based on John McCain ? ) who upsets Winter by stating that because he collects all sorts of military memorabillia Winter couldn`t have served on a battlefield which understandably upsets Winter because it`s a bizarre comment to make . Let`s see now absolutely no one in history who collects military artifacts has never been in the field ! I won`t bother to point out how inaccurate this sweeping generalization is except to say it`s used to set up the battle of wills in a very weak example of scripting . And the more the story goes on the more aware you become that the production team have little knowledge of military or political matters . It turns out Irwin was in charge of a mission to Burundi in central Africa which cost the lives of eight American soldiers and it`s this that led to him being sent down for ten years . Are you trying to tell me that if an American commander is in charge of a military mission that goes wrong he`ll find himself sent to prison for many years ? Well in that case General McArthur should have been sentanced to hundreds of years in prison for the Chinese intervention in Korea and General Westmoreland should have been shot for the Tet offensive . Did General Garrison do time in prison for the events in BLACK HAWK DOWN ? Oh and it should be pointed out that America never intervened in Burundi , just thought I`d point that out . But it goes from bad to worse as General Irwin leads his men on a prison revolt ( Bet you couldn`t see that coming chaps ? ) where the inmates reveal right out of the blue a siege engine .  What`s that ?  Col Winter shrieks . A siege engine , a catapult to be more accurate , a catapult that must stand thirty foot high that none of the guards seem to have noticed , isn`t there a minimum eye sight requirement in the American military ? Just curious since no one seems to have noticed a thirty foot catapult standing around . Perhaps Hollywood should bring in a basic intelligence test for its screenwriters ?I won`t bother telling you how the story ends except to say if you can reach the end credits without turning off you deserve some sort of medal for watching a movie above and beyond the call of duty "},{"Title":"Highly unlikely, but entertaining nonetheless...","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"34 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A prisoner's fantasy decorated U.S. General Robert Redford has been Court Marshalled for disobeying orders during wartime--which resulted in the deaths of eight soldiers--and is sent to a prison for violent criminals (!). He immediately gets on the wrong side of warden James Gandolfini and rallies the inmates to take control of the yard. Fairly typical genre picture with all the usual details, including the stuttering innocent whose bad treatment becomes a catalyst in the warring sides. The film is well-cast and has some fine passages, yet the heavy symbolism (with flying flags, chess moves and endless talk of castles) comes off as self-important in a movie which uses its entire second half to allow violent criminals to run roughshod over security. Redford gives a modest, self-effacing performance--he's so noble he's like visiting royalty; Gandolfini plays his Colonel like an offended child, affecting a soft but precise, lispy voice, giving the one-dimensional role some unexpected subtext. The handsomely photographed film looks great and works its way slyly on the viewer until all defenses are down, but in retrospect its earnestness seems woefully silly. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Only watch this for a laugh","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"31 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of the funniest films I've seen in a long time - but unfortunately I don't think it's meant to be. From the forbidden salutes to jailed general Robert Redford - which prisoners get round by saluting and then smoothing down their hair - to the ridiculous siege weapons which the prisoners have somehow been able to make in the prison workshops. I mean, we know the director is trying to compare the prison riot to a medieval siege but do we really need all the prisoners running around with shields made of trays, bows and arrows and a trebuchet (oh yes). I was only waiting for the final swordfight between Redford and the warden to be shown as shadows cast on the prison wall. It's totally laughable and has one of the cheesiest endings you will ever see. "},{"Title":"under rated","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was probably one of the most under rated movies of 2001. I didn't have many expectations for it either. I am not a Robert Redford fan and I was not familiar with the work of James Gandolfini, but because I am an action fan and the trailer made this out to look like a not to bad action movie I decided to pick it up. The problem with most action movies that run over two hours is that they usually become boring and bogged down with confusing plot twists that ruin the entertainment value. But this movie never once became boring, my eyes were glued to the screen the whole time. Redford and Gandolfini lit up the screen with red hot performances that kept you at the edge of your seat. This movie has everything you could ask for in an action movie, strong performances, strong script, beautifuly directed action sequences and dare I say it, a few touching moments. Redford plays a war hero who is sent to a prision for war verterians. He then plans an uprising against the corrupt prision guard. Your heart will instantly go out to a shy inmate who was accused of beating someone to death with a hammer. The film also has some of the most mouth dropping action scenes that I've seen in a long time. I couldn't believe what I was seeing. So whether you are a fan of prision movies like The Shawshank Redemption or Fortress or a hardened action fan this movie will not dissapoint. I rank this film as one of the best of 2001 along side Made.  "},{"Title":"Despite the setting, this movie has little to do with prisons.","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Despite the setting, this movie has little to do with prisons. Rod Lurie's vision, combined with the extraordinary talents of Robert Redford and James Gandolfini, is a morality play set in the most unlikely of locations. We have a man who has risen to the height of his potential, the Colonel, who will never advance above that rank, and is bitter with his role in life. He is an administrator among soldiers who wanted to be a soldier and was instead given the task of maintaining order at a prison. That he could show leadership by helping these men to regain their self respect and dignity has escaped him, and he is content to amuse himself by creating situations which lead to the prisoners becoming the animals he believes them to be. When the General comes to his prison, he thinks he has found a kindred spirit who can appreciate his manipulation of the men. To his disappointment, he finds the General a thoughtful and honorable soldier who has chosen to accept his punishment without excuse or explanation. While the Colonel must fight to maintain control, his methods and his intellect lack humanity and understanding. The General is given control by the prisoners because of his intellect and understanding. He offers the prisoners the one thing the warden cannot, dignity. Rated R for language and violence, this film is not for everyone, and certainly not for the very young. It is, however, an essential element in the creation of a leader, and should be seen by anyone who aspires to lead. "},{"Title":"A good if predictable movie.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Last Castle is a fine if somewhat predictable jail movie of redemption and determination against the odds. Having seen the previews I thought nothing of ever seeing the film, but saw it on the shelf in the video store and thought it would pass an evening.It did that very well, and is worth seeing for at least one reason. Although Robert Redford puts in a solid performance, James Gandolfini steals this movie with his simpering, bully-boy performance. Despite knowing from the opening scene that he will undoubted lose against Redford's disgraced general, Gandolfini's depiction of a man in authority but with little power is very subtle and worth watching.The rest of the film has some clever moments, but you see everything coming - Redford inspiring the other prisoners, the inevitable conflicts and the finale.  The Last Castle is worth seeing once.  "},{"Title":"Filled with both strengths and weaknesses","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"21 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Most of the raves and pans you will read of this movie are equally true in their own respects.  For my money, the film's weaknesses slightly outweigh its strengths but I can easily see someone else's scales tipping the other way.The performances are splendid all around.  Most especially, James Gandolfini (who had the inside track with the most richly drawn character) excels as the ambiguous villain who is actually right more than half the time.The message which deals with the value of pride and the importance of identity and self-worth is certainly admirable.  The fact that this occurs among men who have marred their own self-worth through violent crime makes the concept that much more interesting.  It almost (but never quite) raises the idea of reclaiming integrity, once lost.  If it had gone this extra mile, it may well have been a better film.The weaknesses lie in the hundreds of stupid little inaccuracies which culminate into one stupid BIG inaccuracy  This place doesn't feel like a prison!It is difficult to make a prison movie within ten years of 1994 without inviting comparisons to The Shawshank Redemption.  Rather than belaboring the obvious, I want to note one detail that is exemplary of the earlier film's superiority.  Even the jolliest, funniest, most easy going prisoners in Shawshank had an underlying sense of danger about them.  You didn't want to get on their bad side.  You never doubt that they belong in prison (except, of course, for Andy Dufresne).  But this is not so in The Last Castle.  No matter how often someone reads from a prisoner's file and discusses the horrible things he has done, none of the words, actions, or other moods conveyed by the men in this film make them seem in any way dangerous.  Maybe it's a case of mass miscasting but I doubt it.Compounding this problem is the lack of scholarship to be found in the little details.  Robert Redford shaves with a safety razor in spite of the fact that no prisoner would be allowed such a tool.  Razor blades, like belts and shoelaces, are potential suicide tools and, thus, prohibited in prisons.  Also, people keep referring to an officer's side arm as his gun instead of his weapon.  These mistakes were easy to avoid and yet they remained in the film.All of this makes a potentially fascinating film, filled with talent, seem a touch removed from reality.  Like in The Contender, director Rod Lurie has shown that his view of reality is based on his opinions rather than the other way around.With all it had going for it, it's a shame really.  "}{"Title":"Four-Square Entertainment","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In an era when most new filmmakers seem less concerned with story than with figuring out new and creative ways to possibly damage their camera equipment, it's encouraging to see someone like Rod Lurie come along.  A former film critic, Lurie has emerged in the last few years as a maker of old-fashioned good movies well made.  He impressed me last year with the political drama The Contender, and this year he brings us The Last Castle, a prison picture that overcomes some dramatic potholes to provide a solid two hours' worth of entertainment.The castle in question here is a maximum security military prison, home to the armed forces' toughest offenders.  The whole place is ruled by Col. Winter (James Gandolfini), a tinpot tyrant who delights in turning his prisoners against one another.  Make them forget they are soldiers, make them forget they are MEN, and you will win...that's Winter's philosophy. Then, a monkey wrench is thrown into the works, in the form of Gen. Eugene Irwin (Robert Redford), a much-decorated three-star general court-martialed for a battlefield infraction.  Irwin immediately sees Winter for what he is, and as his weeks in the prison wear on, he begins to realize that he is surrounded by SOLDIERS, tough, competent, and ready to fight.  All they need is a general to get behind...and a villain to rally against.The Last Castle is a character-driven piece, and is carried by the strengths of its performances.  Robert Redford takes a character who is admittedly rather sketchily written and, through sheer force of his charisma and personality, turns him into someone quirky and specific.  Irwin is more like the Sundance Kid than any character Redford has played in some time a rebel battling against a system that has arrayed insurmountable odds against him.  This time, however, Irwin is a product of the system, and he knows its rules.  Redford conveys that wisdom with a bemused grin or a mere flex of his craggy but still handsome face.  This, folks, is star power.The actors surrounding him put in equally fine work.  James Gandolfini is miles away from The Sopranos as the despotic Col. Winter, and makes him a fine villain, loathsome yet pathetic and curiously affecting at the same time.  Mark Ruffalo comfortably wears the role of the prison bookie, a cynic whose father was a Vietnam P.O.W. with Irwin, and Clifton Collins, so creepy and evil as the assassin Frankie Flowers in Traffic, turns in a drastically different turn here as a stuttering corporal who first recognizes Irwin's greatness.Lurie helms this material with assured confidence.  He gives the film a gritty, authentic look and feel, he knows how to recognize a dramatic moment and pay it off, and he handles the film's quieter scenes and its boisterous action payoffs with equal elan.  Any way you slice it, it's just good filmmaking.Though David Scarpa and Graham Yost spike their screenplay with memorable moments and fine dialogue, they shoot themselves in the foot with third-act implausibilities (you'll find yourselves asking more than once, Now how did they manage to throw THAT together?) and an abrupt finale that leaves too many unanswered questions.Still, even with these problems, The Last Castle is a solid, rousing piece of mainstream entertainment.  It's well-made, it tells a good story without insulting your intelligence or your good taste, and it showcases some fine acting by veterans and newcomers alike.  And I bet Lurie didn't even break any of his cameras.  I'm sure Dreamworks appreciates that, if nothing else.  "},{"Title":"New contender for most improbable plot.","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished watching The Last Castle on satellite and must admit I've had an easier time suspending my disbelief in other movies. I'll get straight to the point. The premise of a highly decorated war hero Army general being sent to (presumably) Leavenworth military prison is, at the least, a bit unlikely. Much more likely is that he'd have been allowed to retire. But this is Robert Redford and he's got Principles (not to mention being a loose cannon)!Now, it's hard to get to the top of the heap in the military by not knowing how to play the game and by choosing one's battles very carefully (at least political ones). But then if the producers had been that realistic, the movie would never have been made. So the great general goes to prison, drawing from his 6 years in the Hanoi Hilton. What does he do? He starts leading the troops, er, excuse me, prisoners, because there are no soldiers among the inmates, and no rank, etc. etc.A military prison would not be that much different from a civilian one. The major difference is that the inmates of the former were convicted of committing crimes while serving in the military. That means you'd have your share of thieves, murderers, sexual predators and other assorted sociopaths. It seems, however, that the producers of The Last Castle thought otherwise. Why these are men who are just in need of a charismatic leader to whip them into shape.Well, I think I've made my point. The great general manages to inspire these thieves, murderers, etc., to achieve real greatness. Oh yes, there's the warden, played by Tony Soprano, er, James Gandolfini. I have to confess that I couldn't keep from thinking about The Sopranos every time I saw him. I also couldn't help wishing I were watching that instead of The Last Castle.The final sequence is so far-fetched that it borders on the ludicrous.Potential Spoiler Alert!It really crossed the line when a guy climbs up a chain and manages to enter into a helicopter and SINGLEHANDEDLY overpowers the door-gunner and pilot. He then slams the tail into a tower and survives the subsequent crash landing. This would have worked in a Die Hard movie with good ol' Bruce Willis, but not in a movie that takes itself far too seriously. Well, at least he was a helicopter pilot in the Army.Add to that an embarrassing assortment of clichés, rousing music, a gratuitous scene with the alienated daughter, and you have it, a solid 2 star movie. I only give it that because at least it was competently produced. I have satellite, so these movies are repeated quite frequently. However, this is one I will NOT be tuning into even if there's virtually nothing else to watch. I'd rather take a nap, read a book, go shopping, do just about anything than sit through this one again.... "},{"Title":"Utter cornball nonsense","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"36 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The penultimate scene in this movie, which I don't mind divulging because the film is worthless anyway, is about as cheesy and corny as they get  the wounded and dying general (Robert Redford), imprisoned in a military stockade for disobeying orders (he did so with the best of intentions, naturally, so we're all supposed to sympathize with him!), uses every ounce of his dying strength to raise the American flag up a flagpole.  As this drama unfolds, the prison inmates stand at attention, their chests flush with red-blooded patriotic pride, their butt-cheeks puckered tight, saluting the flag, as solemn and serious as a heart attack.  It's the last act in the ridiculously contrived struggle between the dishonored general and the corrupt, power-hungry prison warden (James Gandolfini), whose motto is something like `my way or the eternal dirt nap.'  What I don't understand is, Who gets paid to write this stuff?   "},{"Title":"None of it really amounts to much but it is watchable if not totally worthy of the heavyweights involved","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"33 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stripped of his rank and sentenced to 10 years in a military prison, Lt. General Irwin's reputation is still very much alive, to the point that the jail's commander has a certain degree of respect for him. Regardless of this though, Irwin must not abide by Winter's rules and become just another of the men. Looking to just serve out his time and go home, Irwin tries to accept his new surroundings, but he finds that the men look to him with a respect that he wishes would go away. However as he becomes familiar with the practises within the prison, he cannot help but assume a leadership role &#150; bringing him into direct confrontation with Winter over the brutal, domineering methods he uses.Despite being a total box office flop, I was still sufficiently attracted by Lurie and the cast he had put together to give this film a chance (albeit on DVD rather than in the cinema). The film is a mix of two types of film and it manages to do neither of them that well, but well enough to produce an enjoyable if forgettable film. The first half of the film is a sort of drama, with Irwin teaching the men the respect and humanity that (supposedly) they once had as soldiers. This half is OK mainly because the fatherly Redford makes his character work pretty well at this stuff &#150; it isn't brilliant but it is OK to watch. The second half sees the film become increasingly illogical as the contest between Irwin and Winter intensifies up to the point where a slightly silly final action sequence. I won't say enough to spoil it for anybody, but the final sequence of events grows more and more unlikely by each passing event. Happily it is also quite exciting for what it is and the temptation to scoff at it is delayed (slightly) by the distraction value of it. It is not a great story by any means but it is workable &#150; and the director and cast are just about good enough to make the weak into the watchable, the empty into the entertaining.Ex-Empire critic Lurie will always interest me because he had the guts to do what few critics could &#150; stop analysing others and make something themselves. His direction is good and he handles the action sequences well (their weaknesses being in their writing, not in his delivery). The cast are talented and do their best with a script that is not as good as their talent deserved. Redford has an easy task &#150; playing an elder statesman, full of charisma and high principles. He does this well as one would expect from an actor if his caliber. Gandolfini plays back his accent in an attempt to keep his character away from his 'Sopranoisms' but the script doesn't help him. Gadolfini plays a 'little man', one whom we half feel sorry for and half we dislike; he does well to keep both these sides out, but at the end of the film the script is only really interesting in making him a controlling monster and his performance doesn't really matter one way or the other. The support cast has quite a few well-known faces, most of who are pretty good. Lindo is more of an add-on but the ever-reliable Ruffalo who shows here why he now has the reputation of a solid support man.Collins has a simple, stuttering character but it is still nice to see him in something other than a gangbanger role. The rest of the support are good enough, even if they don't have a great deal to do.Overall this is an average film that seems to aspire to a higher level at one point and then just settle for action and explosions at later stages. None of it really amounts to much but the first half is enjoyable as a fairly clichéd drama and the second half is quite enjoyable even if it is silly and overblown. I can understand why it didn't really do much at the box office but as a DVD it works well enough to pass a few hours even if it never really does much more than go through the motions.  "},{"Title":"Bad Movie for some Excellent to others","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Despite, the bad reviews that have been posted on this site, I find The Last Castle to be one the most interested and thrilling movies I have ever had the pleasure to watch. The need by others to find faults and negative comments were just not called for. This is a movie shows how one man with a huge ego and in a position of power can single handedly break a man's pride and spirit and that of another who shows a group of men that despite their circumstances your pride and self respect is something no one can take from you unless you allow them to. If this is what is considered a bad movie, I'd like to know what a good movie is. The Last Castle is a movie that you have to watch to judge it yourself and not base it on the opinions of others. If you are unsure, just watch the movie, judge it for yourself and then post your own review. "},{"Title":"Dumbest film I've seen for years","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From a mildly interesting beginning and mid section, this film quickly descends into a total and complete FARCE.-- Spoiler Alert --- Others have mentioned the fact that an enormous catapult was somehow hidden in the corner without being noticed, but when bullets are bouncing off wafer thin metal trays, you know the script was probably taken over by some silly exec. Oh, and last time I checked, punching someone in the head WHO HAS A HELMET ON and is packing a loaded shotgun is usually not a good idea.Please DON'T waste your life watching this film. If you like the lead actors, then rent out season 1 of the Soprano's, or watch Sneakers... "},{"Title":"Once a man, forever a man","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is probably not a masterpiece but it is a film that is extremely strong and universal. It is dealing with justice for military personnel and soldiers. No one will question the justness of a court-martial but what happens to a soldier, what's more a three star general, if he is court-martialed to serve some time in a military prison. The prisoners in that prison have been humiliated and broken down into some wild animals because a colonel only decided to see the crimes of these men and not the good potential that was and always will be in them as soldiers, and probably as men. They were trained soldiers and they have made a mistake that they have to pay for, but they are no animals. They are human and they remain human, they are military and they remain military with some strong powerful values they still are ready to die for provided they find a good leadership. The colonel who is abusing his power as the boss of this military prison does not understand any other language than repression and force and killing those who do not obey. It can only work when the mass of the prisoners are divided and hostile to one another. Bring one high ranking officer among them who will know how to rebuild their self-pride and their sense of honor and they will follow him to regain their military humanity. The best part in the film is that it demonstrates how easy it is to organize a take-over in such a prison if you are imaginative and you have the sense of command and the sanity to respect the best in each man. What's more the soldiers on the side of the colonel will also recognize in the prisoners and their fight the high human and military values they believe in. These soldiers will decide to isolate the colonel and even arrest him for having lost control of his fortress by his own efforts and lack of moral humanism. The film is probably slightly optimistic on that point but it can go through because the flag of the fortress, which is also the flag of the USA but could be the flag of any country, is in the hands of the main rebel and he is going to hoist up on its flagpole. That very act, though the three star general prisoner will be shot while doing that by the defeated colonel, just before his own captain arrests him, creates a reaction among all the soldiers, prisoners or not that leads them to salute the flag and find an epiphany in that act. No matter what the colonel used to say, before being court-martialed in his turn, these men may have done something wrong but they remain human beings and soldiers. Once a corporal, always a corporal. You cannot have and have been, because once you have become you will always be.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Robert Redford vehicle. Also cheesy ending, no surprises","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is certainly watchable, but don't expect anything above average. The plot is so obvious (decent guy goes to prison for a 'gallant' mistake, sadistic warden, other inmates ready to follow the mercurial new inmate, rise-up against the system, and so on to obvious ending) that I spent the time guessing which inmate was going to fulfil which 'key' plot turn and what methods were going to be employed to bring about the inevitable uprising...This is where the average became silly. Robert Redford somehow marshals a few hundred inmates (all ex-army like him)and then moulds them (back) into a fighting force with respect etc etc and on top of this mean feat they also manage to build an arsenal of medieval weaponry - including a 30 foot trebuchet. Well the warden may be a sadist, but he's obviously an idiot. And the less said about the flag waving, god bless America, dying hero ending the better.Again - not unwatchable at all. Totally forgettable, but can hold the attention just about. "},{"Title":"This movie goes beyond good vs. evil.","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is about loyalty, honor and duty. But beyond that, it is about humanity. This is the quality that the Redford character reintroduces to the prisoners. These men have been stripped of honor and a sense of humanity which is one of the reasons they put on uniforms and fought for freedom in the first place. These men are not merely prisoners or civilian criminals as in Shawshank, these are military men who at the time of their crimes wore U.S. Military uniforms. Many of them were burnt offerings or sacrifices by higher command to appease the masses for high crimes; someone must pay for these political faux pas, and seldom is it the one giving the orders. Granted, some were common criminals wearing uniforms, but a good number were merely following orders and were thusly blind-sided. The Warden, though rather gleeful in his job, understood the danger of allowing soldiers to play soldier. Redford, on the other hand recognized the necessity of that very diversion to restore hope and manhood to this group of men. I would hope that viewers would allow themselves to see beyond their own military vs. anti-military stances and actually watch the interactions of the representations in this film. Mr. Redford certainly did when he made the film and his passion for good film making was evident throughout. "},{"Title":"Amusing tripe","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It starts as if it is going to be a remake of the Shawshank Redemption, however this governor isn't shown to be that bad. Eventually it didn't seem to be too far from the norm for a military prison, so the cause of the rebellion isn't shown to be all that strong.By halfway through it seemed at that it could be a remake of the excellent Mackenzie Break. In much the same way in this film I was intrigued whether Redford was supposed to be a hero or a reckless egomaniac. For this ambiguity it deserves a few points even though I now realise that this ambiguity was probably unintentional.The ambiguity is then destroyed in the final scenes. Redford is revealed as an all-American hero, and the film becomes just another gung-ho movie in the John Wayne mould. You could then laugh at the sudden appearance of a fully-trained and equipped army from among the prisoners. There were also some good stunts.I suppose to American audiences it seems to be yet another patriotic movie. It is about a bunch of hardened criminals who are so full of guilt about letting down the US Marine Corps, that they will all re-unite into a crack unit with minimal persuasion by someone they know had needlessly sacrificed his men. They really loved the army, they just needed another chance. They will even shed a tear for the US flag when it is raised.To non-US audiences the whole plot is more likely to seem both confusing and hilarious. It seems more likely that an officer as an inmate in a military prison would in reality have a hard time and would do well to gain any respect, let alone instant adoration. Yet Redford's character is able to lead the prisoners in a futile attempt to take over the jail causing many innocent casualties on both sides - some hero. Somehow the American flag is invoked to make it seem justifiable. I half expected Mel Brooks or Leslie Nielsen to make an appearance and the film to be eventually revealed as a parody. Amazingly the US can still make corny films like this with a straight face. "}{"Title":"Should Have Been More","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Such terrific entertainment. It's just a shame that it at the same time is such a bad film. Borrowing from numerous films like Shawshank Redemption, Murder in the First and The Great Escape to name a few, it is still somewhat different from what you expect. The acting is eminent. Robert Redford does a fine performance as the reluctant hero, but two other actors are stealing the scenes even more so. The first is of course the fabulous  James Gandolfini in a very different role than what we are used to from The Sopranos. I am a big fan of the TV series and I would never have thought that he would be able to play such a prick that I would actually hate him. The second actor worth extra praise is the new talent Mark Ruffalo who played so heartbreakingly well in the amazing You Can Count On Me from last year. He portrays an ordinary character with such heart and genuineness that the character becomes so much more interesting than it would with most actors. The film is saved by its actors and its entertainment value. What pulls it down is all the logical errors and holes in the script. And I am sure many Americans will appreciate the excessive patriotism shown in the film, but it really gets too much.Absolutely worth watching, but I have a feeling that this could have been so much more.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Cool Hand Luzhin","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Kwai meets Dirty Dozen meets Shawshank meets Great Escape and is far far below any of them.I suppose this movie will do well because it features a flag and contains some vague notion of soldiers' honor. But it in fact debases both.The primary problem is Redford. He knows his way around a set, and he has a familiar, reassuring face. Problem is he can't act, and certainly can't deliver what is needed here a man who carries a whole world in the air around him, a man whose presence exudes authority. Lindo easy conveys this feel; nothing Redford tries, does. It is as comical as the girl always falling for Woody Allen.Worse the mind of the warfighter has some very specific mental mannerisms, some attractive, some not. No one involved in this film seems to have bothered to discover these.I am at a particular disadvantage I viewed this in an audience heavily populated by the real thing. Plus the last film I saw was `The Interview,' which also featured a battle of wits between a jailer and prisoner. It was leagues beyond this.A chess note I believe the original story must have made much of the chess metaphor the wall, the faceoff between the two, the supposedly deep anticipative strategies, constraints of the military command structure. If so, it would have been blunt and rather obvious but at least some coherent center. Here it is so watered down that studio execs must have been afraid of even this small grain of sophistication.  "},{"Title":"Absurd and ridiculous","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You can't help but think of Shawshank while watching this piece of crap. It tries so hard to make you feel a non-existent moral dilemma between characters you couldn't care at all for. Although there are some similarities, Shawshank Redemption makes this movie look like a  bad A-Team episode. Zero character development, plot holes miles deep, crappy psychological banter and the worst ending I have ever seen makes The Last Castle a bomb that exploded well before they wasted the  entire budget on an action sequence that defies all logic. The most amazing thing about this movie is that if Stephen Segal starred it would have been better - which is really not saying much. "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie packed with clichés","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford and James Gandolfini deserve better than to be seen in such a painfully silly movie. The script seems inspired by the boyish fantasy of a very unimaginative MacGyver viewer (the bazooka!, the sling shot!,...). It is, however, squeezed out by a 'David Scarpa'. I didn't find any other examples of his work on the IMDb but I am rather curious to see if he can surpass this monstrosity with his next screenplay. But should he really be given a second chance? If you thought the military tactics in Starship Troopers were a bit on the primitive side, come and see this one. You will also learn some very deep stuff about castles from the off-screen voice.... "},{"Title":"The foundations are lacking in this castle","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After checking this site for information about The Last Castle (of which I previously knew nothing about) I decided to take a look at it, despite one of the major issues other viewers and reviewers have had with this film &#x96; the trebuchet &#x96; which was a key reason that made me stay to watch the ending. I'm rather astounded that such a ridiculous and moronic plot element would remain in the script without someone simply asking that if it is of such importance to the overthrow of power, why does it not get any mention before the surprise reveal during the prisoner revolt.Before the trebuchet ever appeared I was already struggling with the generally poor dialogue, the easily lead prisoners and the basic security flaws within this prison complex. Gandolfini's Col. Winter is a weak and uninspired character that adds little to the intent of the story and misses the mark for what should have been a very complex person within a role of ultimate authority.There's a noticeable lack of story development regarding the inmates banding together and creating the necessary components for their violent uprising &#x96; so much so that we simply do not get the impression that they are capable of producing the results later shown. In many ways the plot feels undercooked and simplistic, lacking the necessary depth to produce something worthy of the situation. I can handle moments of flawed movie logic, but this film features way too many of these occasions to retain credibility.If you're prepared to unplug your brain and personally enjoy this type of film, then there may be something of interest. For everyone else &#x96; there's nothing of value here to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Don't let this film take you prisoner","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is a hackneyed pastiche of clichés and characters. Sometimes such a movie comes together into something of its own kind - but this does not. Pacing is quick enough and plot developments frequent enough to get you through the 2 hours. But, if you do make it to the end, you will probably just feel empty and used.Incidentally, in the beginning James Gandolfini's character is shown listening to Salieri. I think that references the 1984 movie Armadeus, in which the character of Salieri was extremely jealous of Mozart... Much like the character of Winters (Gandolofini) is of Irwin (Redford).Overall the acting is good. Particularly the band of prisoners. Unfortunately there are no real stand outs which really make a movie like this work. In Shawshank, for example, the main strength (subtle and clever acts of subverting authority aside) is the involvement with various supporting roles amongst the prison population. You just don't care about these guys the same way. "},{"Title":"neither Cool Hand Luke nor Brubaker, wait for the video","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Redford is miscast, he's not a general, maybe a colonel that's it. The story has its moments but it's slow and has way too many inconsistencies to make a seamlessly intriguing film.The trite Hollywood ending makes the movie fall apart, if you watch the flag being raised a few times (as military man have) you know which way is up from the get go. It would have been better to shorten what we saw and then add a courtroom drama of the colonel/general aftermath.Save your money and rent the video when there's nothing better to do.. "},{"Title":"You feel good after watching a movie like this!","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although there are some scenes that are stretched somewhat wide from reality, do not let it fool you from the message it is trying to portray in the movie no matter where you are, what situation you find yourself, you are entitled to honour, dignity, loyalty and respect! This movie gives you all of those things!Robert Redford's character, General Eugene Irwin, has been sentenced to do time in a military prison facility. Upon his arrival, many look to him as a source of leadership yet all he wants is to do his time and to go home peacefully. As many disturbing events take place, Eugene finds himself in a situation he cannot ignore. He soon realizes that the men in the facility need his help, which leaves him no choice but to once again, take charge and lead these men in his one last assignment take control of the castle. "},{"Title":"Rubber bullets","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While its plot is wildly implausible, THE LAST CASTLE is a great prison-uprising movie that pits a disgraced general (Redford) serving time in a military prison against the vindictive and nasty colonel (Gadolfini) who runs the place. While the warden runs the prison through fear tactics and treats the inmates like animals, the general shows them respect and gets them thinking like soldiers again. Early on, he decides to take over the prison and get rid of the villainous warden. This leads to a spectacular battle between inmates and guards that occupies the final half-hour. The battle is rousing, if highly unlikely. The movie works on several levels as a prison flick, as a test of wills, even as a story of atonement. Redford, who I have never cared much for, is very convincing as a soldier gone wrong who yearns to set things right. Gandolfini is his usual squinty-eyed self and doesn't have to work very hard to convince us he is a first-class bully and psychotic. Mark Ruffalo of SHUTTER ISLAND fame plays a cynical inmate who thinks both men are crazy. Great drama, with lots of action and solid character development. "},{"Title":"I don't think even the kids were fooled by this tripe","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One wonders why a movie this full of plot-holes was even made. I guess even movie-makers have bills to pay from time to time. Maybe that's it. I can't think of another reason.The plot goes way beyond improbable and ventures into outright impossibility. I guess we can accept that there's amoral jerks in the world that would allow inmates to be summarily executed and that would be eager to perform said executions even, themselves. But how do you explain a prison revolt where every prisoner - right down to the very baddest and meanest and demented of the lot - all fall in line, in lockstep, behind a guy they barely know? Or, how did they procure the mountain of incendiary material and weapons - including an enormous, complex, midieval trebuchet (that was constructed without ANYONE noticing, and stored away until the appointed moment likewise), and organize a well-orchestrated assault without any of the prison personnel getting wise to what was going on?Most of the rest of the plot was just basic schmaltzy, dime store philosophy and overacting. Redford was likable enough (as always), Tony Soprano was about as one-dimensional as it's possible to be (I think they could have substituted a cardboard cut-out will equal effect). And then they sum it all up in the end with an utterly incongruous and overdone fit of jingoism.The net result is a movie well worth avoiding. It's just too stupid. "}{"Title":"Boring and underdeveloped","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this on TV expecting a pleasant and entertaining film and got neither. It's really an aggravating movie because it wastes so much potential; Robert Redford, for starters, and James Gandolfini as a prison warden. It's like Shawshank Redemption Redux, minus the epic scope and character development -- essentially a story of prisoner vs. warden, only this one is hardly as entertaining.I was really disappointed in just how much this film wasted its own ambitions. Gandolfini could have been an excellent sadistic warden but he comes across as an idiot with a breathing problem (seriously, the heavy inhaling gets annoying after a while). Redford looks like he just walked out of the plastic surgeon's office and his face is a mess, it's hard to take it seriously at all that this old 60-something weakling gains the respect of the entire jail overnight and is able to lift heavy rocks to form a castle wall. Rod Lurie (who directed the movie) used to be a film critic. One might think a critic, of all people, would recognize the necessities of believability, character development and so on and so forth in a prison story. Lurie comes across as a very average director, employing mediocre co-actors and a really weak script full of ham-handed dialogue.Don't make any sort of effort to see this, I can almost guarantee you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Now I know why this movie went by unnoticed","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really know many movie titles, I mean movies I haven't even seen and I'm still able to have a discussion about them with someone. So I just had the strangest, yet kind of familiar feeling that not knowing this movie at all (and Mr. Redford's in it!) won't be promising. Boy do I keep asking myself why Robert Redford made this movie. He just doesn't seem to fit with the other cast, everything has a television movie feel, a B-movie at best, and he just comes off as ackward and miscast. Actually I said that wrong, the movie itself is what's the mishap here. It's premise is fairly ridiculous and predictable (which is NEVER a good sign) so what we are left is Robert Redford. Had it not been for him this ship would have sunk even deeper than it did, where the 60 million dollars went into I honestly don't know.Definitely worth a miss. Very American, very patriotic, very much trying to be a sort of Bridge On The River Kwai thing, but hey, it just isn't.Recommend - to maybe pick the DVD box in your local videoclub, look at it for a second or two, and then just put it back and forget it ever happened. That's what I'll try to do.4/10 "},{"Title":"excessive patriotism is sickening!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  need one say more? You've got to be an over zealous American to take all this in.  Reading most of the other comments seems to mirror these sentiments. If just once, American's wouldn't come off so smuggly as more patriotic than anyone one else on the planet..I'm sure more of the world would give this picture a fairer shake.  "},{"Title":"This movie compares favorably with Shawshank Redemption","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've seen in a while.  Robert Redford is absolutely amazing.  His eyes tell you just as much as his dialogue.  The plot is solid and all the action is justified within it.I may have to drag a couple friends to see this just so I can go again. "},{"Title":"Unintnended Consquences","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Here the main unintended consequence is audience hilarity in what, I suppose, was supposed to be a grim to uplifting story. The problem is that the improbables soon outweigh any other consideration. The story concerns a general sentenced to ten years in a maximum security military prison. At first, the actual crime of this general, the most revered military man in the US at this time, is kept secret. After roughly 2/3 of the movie is done, we learn that what the general was convicted of was so trivial that it'd not cause even a reprimand to any officer much less a dime conviction for a three star. At the revelation of his 'crime' my wife and I just looked at each other and burst out laughing. It was almost as serious as him not finishing eating his carrots. At first the general just wishes to serve his time quietly but he soon grows outraged at the brutality of the prison he's in. Remember, this is a prison for the worst felons in the military. I mean violent rapists, thieves, drug dealers and probably traitors as well. What does the brutality consist of?*******Squeamish people skip this part*******The prisoners are forced, and I mean FORCED, to do their own laundry. They are FORBIDDEN to salute each other. And worst of all, they sometimes have fewer basketballs than they'd like. *******Done with the disgusting details*******Even the worst criminals of all time should not be subjected to such brutality. So the general decides to foment a prison revolt. Being a clever little fellow, he and his suddenly loyal troop of scum, do the followingThey manufacture several incendiary devices. They manufacture a gas powered bazooka, They forge several lengths of chain. They forge a grappling hook. They weld handles on to the aluminum mess trays and reinforce the trays making them bulletproof. They manufacture bows and arrows. They manufacture a trebuchet roughly 40 feet (10m) tall. ....and much moreAll in a maximum security prison with nobody noticing. They also manage to get in a few weeks' practice with these difficult to master weapons such as the trebuchet. Then at a signal, the prison boys all whip out their weaponry and attack the suddenly helpless and hapless guards killing at least 20 while the supposedly brutal warden mildly looks on.I don't want to be excessively critical here, but this is the silliest excuse for a movie I've ever seen. I mean this one beats that stupid Indiana Jones finds a glass skull or whatever that stinker was called. By all means rent it just to be amazed at how idiotic the US movie industry can be when it puts its lack of mind on something. "},{"Title":"i just invented something really cool","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" its a typewriter, but instead of letters you can hit buttons to fill random Hollywood-crap into your movie script. Now place a drunk monkey in front of it for a few hours and you end up with something like The Last Castle. Oh it has it all the poor stutterer who regains back his pride but has to die to at least somehow get the plot ahead, a fallen hero (who of course proves that he still is a a genuine all American, battle hardened super-dude), a villain (who of course didn't understand all the noble principles of the American military) that is not just beyond evil, but also on the brink from stupidity to complete retardedness (here in the form of the military prison warden... not exactly a new scheme either, is it?), prisoners making (unnoticed from all the guards) a huge catapult and to top it of even a spiffy gas tank-bazooka, a guy (the cynical doubter, who in the end of course decides to join in in the noble efforts) climbing up on a chain to a flying helicopter and capturing it (even surprising the dude in it WHO HAS A FRIGGIN SHOTGUN!), brave prisoners fighting of dudes in full riot gear with cafeteria equipment, the loyal aid to the villain who in the very end finally has the guts to end his master's madness, former enemies among the prisons who overcome their differences in their fight against evil, a troubled relationship between the hero and his daughter (he's never seen his grandson....sniff), awesomely inspiring monologues from our hero that will probably one day become the very definition of pathos... well the list is long. In case you're thinking well, that's a pretty normal amount of crap and stereotypes in a movie, isn't it?, I saved the knock-out scene for last While our great hero is dying from several gunshot wounds (inflicted by the crazy villain himself of course), the last thing he does is proudly raising the star spangled banner on the flag pole in the middle of the prison courtyard and then doing his last breath with a hint of a smile on his face. Glorious!So...yeah, Robert Redford might be a decent actor and the supporting cast isn't too bad either....but the drunk monkeys, i tell ya, can ruin everyone's portfolio. ;) "},{"Title":"Avoids Confronting the Issues","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" General Eugene Irwin, a much-decorated military hero, is stripped of his rank after being convicted by a court-martial of disobeying an Executive Order from the President and sentenced to a military prison known as the Castle. The Castle's commander, Colonel Winter, is an admirer of Irwin's, and initially treats him with respect and deference. It soon becomes clear, however, that Winter is a bully who treats the prison inmates with brutality and he soon clashes with the more humane Irwin. Irwin's charisma, experience of command and concern for their welfare win him the respect of the inmates, who come to look upon him as their champion.During the first half of the film, it seemed to have the potential to become a very good one. At the heart of the film is the clash of personalities between Irwin, the charismatic battlefield commander, and Winter, a humourless, pedantic, bureaucrat in uniform who has spent his career in the military but who has never seen action in the field. Winter sees the inmates as dangerous criminals and his role as being to punish them. Irwin sees them as brave and honourable men who have gone wrong and believes that the role of the prison should be to rehabilitate them and give them back their self-respect. The roles of the two protagonists are well played by Robert Redford as Irwin and James Gandolfini as Winter, who bring out the men's contrasting characters.In the second half, however, the film quickly goes downhill and deteriorates into a standard action movie as Irwin uses his gift of leadership and knowledge of military tactics to orchestrate a prison riot with the aim of securing Winter's resignation. It is never clear, however, exactly what the men following him are hoping to achieve beyond loss of life, destruction of property and extra years added to their sentences. The resignation of one particular individual will not necessarily solve their problems. As played by Gandolfini, Winter is not an insane sadist but a by-the-book functionary whose hard-line policies have at least the tacit support of the military authorities. A new governor coming into position after a destructive riot might well take an even harder line.Although the film is set in a prison, it never has anything of importance to say about penal policy. It has been compared to Cool Hand Luke, another film in which a rebellious individual challenges the prison system. Cool Hand Luke, however, is a very different (and much better) film, an indictment of a prison system which allows a down-on-his-luck war hero to be savagely mistreated after being jailed for a petty offence. Luke is the archetypal little man taking on the system; Irwin is an establishment figure. We are, moreover, aware that most of those in the jail are there on account of crimes far more serious than that of vandalising parking meters while drunk (which was Luke's offence). Although Winter is the unsympathetic figure, he gets some of the best arguments. He points out, for example, that under his governorship there have been no escapes and no guards killed, which was not the case under the more liberal regime of his predecessor. Irwin does not really have any suggestions about how to deal with men who have committed serious, and often violent, crimes. His idea that they can recover their self-respect through firm but fair military discipline seems inadequate; many of the inmates are, after all, in prison precisely because they could not adapt themselves to the disciplined life of a soldier.This is an example of the film's tendency to raise difficult questions and then to avoid them. Another example concerns Irwin himself. Winter suggests that he may be motivated by vanity and inability to come to terms with the fact that he is no longer in command of an army. Given what we know of Irwin's character and the offence for which he was sent to prison, this may well be a fair interpretation of his motives, but when the riot breaks out any doubts of this nature are abandoned and Irwin emerges as the noble, self-sacrificing hero. Unlike some recent films, The Last Castle is not anti-military in tone. The general impression given is that, despite the presence of a few bad apples such as Winter, soldiering is an honourable profession for decent men. The ending of the film is notably patriotic, flag-waving in the most literal meaning of the term. The film's weakness is that it avoids confronting the issues of whether the actions of a Winter are not, in fact, merely a symptom of a deeper malaise and of how the military should deal with those in its ranks who are neither decent nor honourable.I watched this film when it was recently shown on television largely because I wanted to see what sort of things Robert Redford has done in recent years. It did nothing to alter my view that he is one of those actors who is fated to be remembered largely for his work in the first half of his career. Although there have been some reasonably good later performances, posterity is likely to remember him for the likes of Butch and Sundance or The Sting rather than, say, Indecent Proposal or Up Close and Personal. It is certainly unlikely to remember him for The Last Castle. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Who is the bad guy??","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***SPOILER ALERT***I will keep my comment short because the movie already wasted two hours of my time.  Who is the bad guy in the film, Redford or the warden??  The warden is criticized for killing inmates, yet Redford's antics lead to several people dying, including innocent guards!!  The viewer is unable to get emotionally involved.  As if the conflict is not enough to make the movie bad, the fact that it is completely unrealistic makes it even worse. I will spare the details, but the last 15-20 minutes of the film are absolutely ridiculous.  Redford, what were you thinking??  You're better than this.  This film was more deserving of Segal or Van Damme. "},{"Title":"Terrible ending","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Warning Spoilers ***This starts off so well, it's well thought out, intelligent has a good story that works on many different levels BUT why is the last twenty minutes so bad ???Did the director fall on his head in the shower? because this film turns into the usual Hollywood rubbish that is churned by the ship load on a daily basis.The last twenty minutes is absolute folly, anyone who enjoyed is retarded. I'll explain...1.how the hell does a pilot, no matter how talented swing the back end of a helicopter around, kill a guard, take out a tower then lose the back end of the helicopter in the explosion and THEN land the thing. I don't have much experience when it comes to flying a helicopter but it doesn't take Einstein to work out that it ain't going to happen.2. Lets just say the prisoners get away with constructing a huge machine that flings stone's without the guards seeing it, i somehow doubt they would have the expertise to build a huge machine that flings stones with the accuracy of a laser guided sniper rifle.3. Are you as the viewer meant to believe that a three star general in the army is stupid enough to give up his life to get his prison buddies a new warden and just forget about his grandson he hasn't seen and his daughter that he yearns to make it up with after neglecting her for so many years while he pursued a career in the army... No surely not.This film has more holes than a Tetley Tea Bag. Its an awful waste, this film could have been brilliant. This is why it's so frustrating to watch. Tip - watch the first hour and twenty then turn it off and make up your own ending, because believe me it can't be any worse than the one i had the miss-fortune to sit through. "},{"Title":" Respect is not something automatic ,  . . . it must be earned ","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the long litany of films which Robert Reford has amassed, this film  The Last Castle  will certainly be among the epitome of his best. It relates the story of a highly respected and exceptionally talented army general one Lt. Gen. Eugene Irwin, (Robert Redford) who was court-martial-ed for disobeying orders. Thereafter he is imprisoned within a military prison compound presided over by a lack-luster commanding officer named Col. Winter (James Gandolfini) who although he admires the general, believes himself to be his superior. The disgraced general may have been broken in rank, but his reputation soon becomes apparent when the prisoners look to him to re-mediate the harsh, cruel and sadistic methods imposed by the warden. A mental chess game inaugurates between the imposing warden and the prisoner general. Everything the Colonal has learned from books now is tested against actual experience and the outcome is to be over-seen by Gen. Wheeler who seeks to either remove Irwin to another prison or discharge Winter for incompetence. A superb role for Redford who's every bit imposing as a military officer and the superior cast which includes Mark Ruffalo, Steve Burton and Delroy Lindo as Gen. Wheeler. Indeed, this is an exceptional movie and one recommended to anyone seeking the definition of a true leader. **** "}{"Title":"The General And His Jailer","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A military prison may be one like none other. In a military prison the inmate population has some history of order and discipline which can be a good thing for the guy who's in charge. But if a charismatic leader gets assigned in the prison population it could be a disaster.Which is what happens in The Last Castle. Prison commandant Colonel James Gandolfini gets a real special prisoner in his charge, a former three star Lieutenant General Robert Redford. This guy was courtmartialed for disobeying an order in a combat situation and got several men killed as a result of it. Still he commands a lot of respect including Gandolfini who'd like to cultivate the guy. But Redford sees him only as a jailer and no one who's seen any real soldiering. His view of him as a jailer plummets markedly downward over several incidents of downright cruelty he witnesses. Redford's career may be gone to hell, but he can still do something about what he sees around him. The Last Castle becomes a battle of wits and nerve between the general and his jailer as to who will control the prison. Gandolfini, most famous for playing Tony Soprano in the cable TV series, The Sopranos runs the prison just about the way you would expect gangland boss Tony Soprano to run it. He's a petty and vindictive little tyrant, a military version of Hume Cronyn's Captain Munsey from Brute Force.Redford is as noble as ever, it's hard to imagine him as a bad guy, even in Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid, Redford's the upright one of the duo. Gandolfini and Redford get good support from a nearly all male cast (don't read anything into that even though this is a prison picture). Pay particular attention to Mark Ruffalo as a skeptical prisoner, Clifton Collins, Jr. whose fate prompts Redford and the rest of the prisoners to action, and Steve Burton as Gandolfini's second in command.Sometimes events have a way of thrusting themselves on people and that's what happens to Redford in The Last Castle. See the film and you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"I would rather watch George Bush wave an American flag for 2 hours","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a waste of your time and money. The scenarios (particularly the end siege scenes) are completely improbable and it degenerates into cartoon-like idiocy. I have scene many bad movies, but this one is truly one of the worst ever. The hammer-to-the-face subtlety of the blatant propagandistic features of this film would only qualify it for screenings in a university class on, say, the decline of American film-making, or the rise of militarism in American popular culture. That is it. It is a blight on our culture and I'm not even sure why I'm dignifying it with this entry. There was a time when Robert Redford made good movies, and one would think that with his abundance of money, he could CHOOSE which movies he made and presumably they would be decent. "},{"Title":"Don't Let This Be the Last Film You See","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Robert Redford, one of the greatest actors of our time, is a general stripped of his rank and sent to prison. When he finds the prison warden is killing inmates, he forms a new army to take on the scourge of James Gandolfini. This film is incredibly great. Redford's acting is superb, as is the acting of everyone involved (though one character's stuttering is a bit annoying). I found myself unable to stop watching no matter how much I wanted to urinate or eat popcorn. My only concern is that the end comes very abruptly, leaving a lot of loose ends. But that's not the worst thing in the world. If you like prison movies, watch this one. It has many similar elements that Shawshank Redemption had, but is different enough that comparing them is unfair to both movies. Perhaps you should watch them as a double feature? If nothing else, remember that Gandolfini is much better in this film than he was in Surviving Christmas... highly recommended! "},{"Title":"What's wrong with Redford these days?","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Americans seem to have a morbid fascination with their military forces, and with guns in particular. I don't know what Freud would have to say in the matter, but I'm sure the word phallic might pop up.I don't know about you, but I'm not too moved by the ending. I don't want to give too much away, but the must...raise...flag! bit just felt ridiculous. Not being an American, I couldn't have cared less if he'd have wiped his a** with that stupid flag.One image I never want to see again in a movie, please The Stars and Stripes, billowing in slow motion with in a beautiful backlight, accompanied by some dramatic John Williams/James Horner strings, and group of brave men saluting it, with a solemn tear, slowly running down their cheek.Oh, and by the way How the h**l did they manage to hide a trebuchet (catapult) in a maximum security prison, run by the invincible American armed forces?Needless to say, I gave this film a 1, simply because you couldn't give it a zero. If you want to see a prison movie with Redford, watch Brubaker from 1980 instead of wasting two hours on this cr*p. "},{"Title":"Military heroes...again","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Last Castle is another film about the topic American directors never seem to grow tired of military heroes! Mr. Rod Lurie obviously believes in the stereotypical, GI-Joe like general who fought many battles (Vietnam, The Gulf, Bosnia...) but eventually gets severely punished for one mistake. Lurie simultaneously managed to find the ideal actor to portray this fallen hero! A seemly tired and introvert Robert Redford is sent to Gandolfini's prison with the idea of doing his time and then retire. But of course you know that the respectable general will lead the prisoners' revolt against the tyrannical Gandolfini and that he'll even mobilize the most demotivated ex-soldiers to joy him. Yawn!! It's all well intended and professionally made, but the Last Castle has got to be one of the most pointless films of the last two decades. This is a conservative bunch of nonsense that just falls from one cliché into another and it's very sad to see how the screenplay shamelessly covers every textbook situation. For example, our big military hero is estranged from his family and only wishes to see his grandson growing up, the initial non-believers die heroically and the American flag is raised high! It all looks ludicrous instead of patriotic and I don't think that has something to do with me not being American. Nobody really needs this type of films. I'm not even into mainstream cinema and I've already seen far too many of this type of fake rubbish. The positive aspects include a couple of well-shot action sequences and a terrific casting choice of James Gandolfini as the spirited bastard. Not nearly enough to make up for 130 minutes of your life, though. "},{"Title":"Designed to mind-wash the young..","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" *sigh* Does anyone remember that Simpsons episode where Bart became a boyband member? And it turned out that the song Yvan eht nioj, was a subliminal message? Yes, well, this film felt like a more grown up version of that song. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised to find out that the US military financed this.To explain, this movie's main goal, or so it seems to me, is to present the American soldier as a man of integrity, who will always fight for Good, with a capital G. (This despite the fact that the movie is set in a maximum security prison, these inmate, well, BY GOD, they will be MORAL).This, alongside the artificial sense of heightened drama, and the saccharine directing, made the movie one of the worst I've seen.Put frankly, those are TWO AND A HALF HOURS that I will NEVER get back.Who know? Maybe this will appeal to brainless teen boys, but for those searching for some Redford magic...prepare to be disappointed.. "},{"Title":"A major disappointment!","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I wanted to like this movie&#133; I tried to like this movie&#133; but all the wishing in the world couldn't help this sad excuse for a film. Dreadfully miscast, with Robert Redford delivering his lines with as much enthusiasm as Ben Stein hawking his latest book. This guy is supposed to be a war hero? Well, he's no Patton, that's for sure. I was expecting so much more; maybe Redford peaked with Brubaker (a movie I enjoyed immensely). And James Gandolfini as the sadistic warden didn't work for me either&#133; putting an eagle on his shoulder doesn't make him a colonel. Now, add a bad script with such a silly ending that I thought maybe the whole thing was a joke and was actually supposed to be a satire. Well, if it is, I'm not sure I get it. Save your time and money on this one star movie&#133; a major disappointment. "},{"Title":"By the Numbers....","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why they bother making movies like this, or why someone with Robert Redford's juice bothers to act in them.  It owes a lot to other prison movies, except that it's more genteel than most stories about inmates.  The only real surprise is Gandolfini as the Colonel in charge.  He looks the part allright, burly and bespectacled, but his working-class accent keeps peeking through the pompous facade and seems to reveal him for the insecure fake he is.  My two main problems were these.1.  The plot's unbelievable.  Redford organizes an army within the military prison and they carry out their revolt with either pinpoint accuracy or surgical precision.  I can't decide which cliche is more apt.  (Maybe the inmates are angry because they're hermetically sealed within those castular walls.)  They couldn't possibly have rehearsed the action sufficiently to have carried it out with such panache.  And, anyway, whenever you plan something carefully, it always goes wrong anyway, as the viewer already knows if he's assiduously balanced his asset allocation before getting into the stock market.  2.  The revolt seems to me to lack motivation.  The colonel just isn't bad enough.  You want to find out how bad a military correctional facility gets?  Read James Jones' From Here to Eternity.  It isn't necessarily that the corrections officers are sadists, not the ones I've known anyway.  It's just that under the proper circumstances they can be pulled into the role of punisher without wanting to be, as Zimbardo's social psychology experiments at Stanford demonstrated decades ago.  (The experiment had to be aborted because the students playing the role of guards were becoming dangerous.)  Redford winds up in the slams, sees a few examples of mistreatment, and demands the resignation of the CO.  When that's not forthcoming he organizes an army and takes over the prison himself.  And for goals that aren't clearly defined.  Inmates are sacrificing their lives (and killing ordinary enlisted cadre as well) for reasons that are hard to figure out.  What actually do they want?  It's as much a mystery as it was at Attica, where every written document from the authorities, including one that granted all of the inmates' demands, were dramatically ripped up in front of an enthusiastic crowd.  Yes, what did Redford and the rest want?  To run up an American flag upside down?  To what end?   I'm afraid I can figure out the answer, although the writers and director don't tell us.  It is that they needed some kind of goal, no matter how ridiculous or petty, in order to set the story up for the final 20-minute burst of action, with the usual fireballs.  Sometimes I can be made to believe that there is a limited quantity of ideas circulating around in Hollywood circles like viruses and they mutate by rearranging their molecules, a cliche here, an obligatory explosion there.  Producing a new movie consist of filling them back and forth, switching them around, changing the order of the boxcars on a never-changing train.  What's Redford doing?  Maybe he needs the money. "},{"Title":"Slightly better then the Worse Movie Ever","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the worse film I saw in my entire life. It is worse then Captain America, Soul Plane, or Angelina Jolie's Cyborg 2, Bats, and Manos the Hand of Fate Combined.While worse films do not pretend to be good, I do admire their honesty and I can live with that. Even if my pet dog died watching one of these movie, or I went to coma several times during the title sequence.This movie pretends to be an A grade movie, while the final 5 minutes of the movie will simply spoil the entire movie. It is like a movie building up to the climax for that great feeling you reach the top and it isn't there. How would you like the idea of climbing Mount Everest, and upon reaching the top, you reached the wrong mountain? Or how about you have dated the most beautiful girl in town, after months of courtship, you have decided to propose marriage, and during your honeymoon, she turns out to be a he? This is the same feeling I have with the Last Castle.While I am not about to spoil the film with this awful ending, I think giving you spoilers is better, at least you will enjoy the movie more. Be warn that if and when you watch this film, DO NOT EXPECT any meaningful ending. And when this dictator Last Castle, came to an end, it just doesn't make sense that the dictator gave up so easily! Well, at least we admire Hitler - on one count, he didn't give up, we had to assassinate him. Most dictators stereotypes are like that, they go to an extreme. And for once, bad guys should be strong all the way until they fall flat on their face, and not become such a stinky coward. It just ruins the fun in a movie, really! It's just too easy way out for these people! I will not spoil the fun and ruin your day, but I will tell you that the ending is pointless. The plots are totally unbelievable, and in my home town, no one wants to watch The Last Castle, its always on sale collecting with the dust. "},{"Title":"Junk.","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I consider it my civic duty to warn those who might be drawn to this movie by the stars, theme, or the (inexplicably) favorable reviews on this website. The Last Castle is awful. The primary problem is the script, which has no character backstory or development, relies on bogus appeals to patriotism, and contains every conceivable war, prison, and POW cliche. Don't waste your money. It is not even worth the time. The closest analog in my movie-going experience is John Huston's Victory, which also had an appealing and talented cast but could not rise above the stupid basic story.  "}{"Title":"Just Pathetic","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I guess when u've read the comments in the hated it section, you will get why this movie is a very sad moment in mainstream film-making.I only wanted to say that i've read those comments and for the first time ever! I couldn't agree more on every point being made in there.This movie is a yard sale of all the trite prison clichés ever being made so. and we get served a storyline that make porno's look intelligent.Almost everything that happens in this movie is so unbelievable that if it weren't for the cast, one would think this was a educational promo on how to not write a script.Laughably pathetic...Shame on Redford for not walking off the set... "},{"Title":"Why Did Redford Make This Film?","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The warehouse clubs are selling the DVD of The Last Castle, an action packed but off-kilter and somewhat maudlin flick cheap and after viewing it I know why.  It doesn't work.Robert Redford is the right age to play a cashiered Army lieutenant general, Irwin, sentenced to ten years in a military prison for disobeying orders in an overseas operation.  Eight soldiers were executed by enemy forces because of Redford.  First, we don't court-martial generals for offenses like that.  We retire them (quietly if possible) or, if we really want to humiliate these miscreants, we set them up for political office.Irwin has a hero's background including surviving the Hanoi Hilton for years during the Vietnam War.  To make the point he arrives at the prison in a Class A uniform with rows of ribbons.Redford's prison is run by COL Winters, James Gandolfini.  Minus the steel balls, COL Winters is the military character found in too many second-rate war films.  No combat experience, hubris, quirky personal interests and habits, obsessions - Gandolfini does a serviceable job of following his erratic, uniformed celluloid predecessors.  But he likes the depth, passion and neurotic nobility of CAPT Queeg.The prison is run strictly and without regard to military law or basic inmate legal rights. After COL Winters there's no one ranking higher than a captain, an absurd premise. Inmates are occasionally killed by turret manning snipers who apparently have never understood that it's a crime to follow criminal orders.So what does a former lieutenant general do?  He organizes the appropriately racially balanced inmates with their predictable range of personalities into an army of sorts to topple the colonel.  Some brutality, lots of action, plenty of You may be criminals but you're still MEN lectures from Redford.I don't know if The Last Castle made money at the box office but it got my $5.99 and, to be fair, my teenage son enjoyed it.  But he enjoyed it primarily because he poked holes in every inflated speech and blazing action scene.4/10. "},{"Title":"Hilariously BAD!!!  Filmmaking at it's absolute worst!!!","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There have been a lot of bad movies this year, but this has to rank as one of the worst. So bad, it's funny, sometimes hilariously so, especially the ending.  I never liked Redford much, but he should be ashamed of himself for doing this trash. Boring, trite, totally predictable from beginning to end (in fact you know what's going to happen in the end in the 1st 5 minutes of the film), badly acted, directed, written, even the music is bad. In fact, there is nothing good about this typicaly Hollyweed trash. Luckily, this was a freebie. I didn't pay anything to watch this. If I had, I'd be demanding my money back...in triplicate. Avoid this at all costs. "},{"Title":"A prison film with a twist","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty good. Robert Redford is an ex-general who is given a long prison sentence in a military prison because he led a faulty mission that ended up with several soldiers killed. It turns out that it was never his fault, but he ends up going to this prison anyway. Throughout the film, he tries to rally other prisoners behind him and rebel against the brutal prison warden, who has killed many prisoners (and makes it look like an accident). It is supposedly called The Last Castle because while most castles made in the last few centuries were built to keep people out, this prison castle was built to keep people in. This was good and exciting and the explosive action scene at the end is definitely worth the rental fee by itself. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap!!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing worse than the acting in this movie is the unbelieveable plot.  The producers of this film would have you believe that a charismatic imprisoned Lt. General is able to seize control of a US Military prison by rallying a bunch of hard core prisoners to a single cause thereby overthrowing the command of a benevolent prison commander.The highlight of the movie could have been the scene where General Wheeler, following his meeting with former Boss Lt. Gen. Irwin, met with Col. Winter and stated  If you cannot handle Gen Irwin, say the word and I will remove him immediately.  To this if Col. Winter had merely responded Yes, remove him the movie would mercifully ended at this point and we all would be better off for the early finish.Gandolfini is a very talented actor and his talent shows through this weak script despite the frequent over enunciated monosyllable dialogue.  On the other hand, Redford, at age 65, out of shape, and with all that highlighted retro blonde hair, is both miscast and is less than credible in the role of General Irwin.Sheesh.  And don't get me started on (1)  the probability of a 3 star general incarcerated for ten years for an offense that at the worst might cause a forced retirement and ending up in a prison full of violent marine enlisted men; or (2)  a former helicopter pilot who climbs up a chain, overpowers two pilots, destroys a guard tower and the helicopter while killing an innocent guard, crashing said helicopter after lopping off the tail section, and who ends up with only a forehead scratch and; (3) Metal food trays used a protective shields against high powered weapons; (4) Shotguns that fire rubber bullets with the accuracy of a hi powered rifle; (5)  A US Army Captain, loyal to his CO throughout the entire movie, who turns on him at the end and not only refuses to obey a lawful order, but threatens the CO with a sidearm, (6) or the estranged daughter who travels God knows how far, to tell her father she won't be back to visit him anytime soon.My wife said the only line missing in this movie was the one where (when Redford was rallying the troops in the cafeteria after the guards mysteriously left to chase two brawlers thereby leaving the entire prison population to enjoy a pep rally) Redford should have said  They can take away our freedom, but they can never deny us the right to sing and dance (music comes up in the background, entire cast begins tap dancing to the tune of Flashdance)!!  Fade to black. "},{"Title":"My First Review of The Last Castle.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just finished watching this on BBC1 for the first time ... This film is definitely about to land itself in my DVD collection as I had never even heard of it before now. Underlying the synopsis of the film is that wherever there is a will there is a way and in this case it's towards the winning over of one's peers. Psychologically clever and thrilling to watch at the same time there are moments where one begins to watch the film wondering how Redford's lead character is going to cope with life in prison and as the film progresses one can only admire the way he wins and earns the respect of his peer group. Ultimately good triumphs over what begins as a hidden evil which becomes ever more apparent as the film progresses too. I really enjoyed this because of the cleverly written synopsis coupled with strong performances throughout from the cast. Thank you for reading - this is all of course in my humble opinion. Recommended to a friend? Basically YEAH! "},{"Title":"Well Made Cliché.","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Last Castle (2001) Dir Rod Lurie / Cast Robert Redford, James Gandolfini, Mark Ruffalo, Delroy Lindo, Steve Burton Everything that has ever been done in prison movies and relies heavily on star power to carry it. Title regards the downfall of a cruel disciplinary system within a prison that is built in the resemblance of a castle. Robert Redford disobeyed an executive order that resulted in the execution of eight men so he serves time in prison. The Colonel admires Redford's military record until Redford accidentally surfaces flaws in his. This leads to a sea-saw battle full of clichés as prisoners approach him with regards to the death poll stemming from abuse from guards. None of this is new and conclusion is ridiculous. Directed by Rod Lurie who previously made a superior film called The Contender. Both films circle around the theme of underdog leadership. What works in this film is the performances. Redford rises above conventions as a man wanting to be left alone until he answers a higher justice. James Gandolfini is excellent as the ruthless Colonel whose pride leads to his downfall. Mark Ruffalo is effective as an inmate whose mental state is tampered with. Other roles are the standard roll call of prisoners we have seen countless times in superior films. Superb art direction prevent this castle from crumbling under a ton of clichés. Score 6 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is an affront to the military by a leftist who hates the military and the USA. A 4 star US Army General allowing soldiers to murder civilians! really? As a veteran of the US Army this movie is a joke. There is no way that a US 4 star General would allow something like that to happen! oh and the prisoners are innocents abused by the guard! silly and so predictable! not worth the time. No wonder Redfords movies fail at the box office. All his movies are themed towards his bias' and have a communist leftist spin. Avoid this movie!Oh and the Prison Commandant, A Colonel allows abuse and murder to occur. No officer in the military who risk his life, career and reputation to abuse anyone under his charge! "},{"Title":"Decent Concept and Plot with unintelligent dialogue","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Being a Robert Redford Movie, one would expect a great, above average movie with sophisticated dialogue.The movie started half descent, but the characters were flawed, cliché and had no depth. We have a five star General with superior intelligence decides to build a Castle with the prison (Also named Castle), A bit childish and very cliché in my opinion.Then you also have the Forest Grunt Marine, stuttering and all, a character that was unnecessary and just plain dumb.The movie could have been great had the dialogue and some of the details been better developed. Overall, the movie was decent enough to watch and entertaining. A rental in essence, but not a Grade A movie as one would expect from Robert Redford.In the end, this movie was disappointing and left you feeling with a bit unintelligent. A movie to watch when there's nothing else to watch.I give it 5.5 / 10. "},{"Title":"Pretty routine for a Prison film, but not bad; Gandolfini & Redford are awesome","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" (plot) A court-martialed general manages to fire up over a thousand prisoners and rebel against the corrupt system that imprisoned him. The only problem is that James Gandolfini stands in his wayI didn't dislike Last Castle at all. As a matter of fact, I had a decent time with it. It pushed some emotional buttons for me, and passed the time nicely. At over two hours long, I didn't look at the clock once. The acting is phenomenal, and the story does more than enough to engage your interest. The problem? It's a little too routine, and has a Been here, done that aura surrounding it. But it's above the norm for the acting, and the acting alone. Redford & Gandolfini are both outstanding. Redford is the perfect hero in every way. He is able to make us believe in his plight, and I couldn't wait to see him get back at Gandolfini. James Gandolfini plays one of the most heartless people I've ever seen. I hated him, and that just shows how good of an actor he is. Mark Ruffalo is also excellent in one of his earlier rolesFinal Thoughts I did like it, but it is rather predictable as well. That's not necessarily a bad thing, though. It has much more good than bad. Worth the watch6.4/10 "}{"Title":"Well Shot But Mindless","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Rod Lurie, The Last Castle starring an elder Robert Redford and now late James Gandolfini is a well shot and edited drama and action movie concerning 2 men's brinkmanship and in-fighting the whole length of the movie. While there are quite a few interesting and well-acted scenes and characters, I kept having thoughts of spy-vs-spy while watching this. It seems to be intended to be another feel-good prison movie, but it's no-where near the layered level of say Shawshank Redemption. Here you have Gandolfini's character slighted and hell-bent on getting back at the Redford who actually seems to underact his role. There are mentions of honor, code of conduct and the general list of military protocol, but they don't really fit - as the characters are prisoners. (spoiler) The ending is supposed to be poignant but it is too choreographed and predictable. Whatever the message is supposed to be it seems lost, and the movie on the whole seems mindless. "},{"Title":"Get your daily dose of violence in a nice package","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Last Castle is an army feel good movie set in an prison.The good. Well planned out tactics. Solid action. A bit of suspense and intrigue. Nice acting. Well paced scenario.The actors. Robert Redford, James Gandolfini, Mark Ruffalo, and Delroy Lindo give us a credible performance. Their lack of brilliance is not a reflection of their capabilities, but rather what they were given to work with.The bad. Too much army heroic mentality. Not every soldier is like that.The ugly. Single minded characters, lack of normal complexity.The result. A satisfying testosterone flick. Do not expect more. "},{"Title":"Great movie, if a little far-fetched.","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story is in my opinion very unique. It might have some parallels to the occasional prison gone bad movie, but sometimes details can't be helped. In this case, I think that The Last Castle stood completely on its own.The acting was spectacular among the big names, and the secondary cast did a very good job of representing not only the general feeling of the movie, but with specific and importantly individual personalities.The grand finale of the movie to which it spends excellent time building is admittedly far-fetched. For instance, I find it rather unlikely that a bunch of military felons could have constructed a working trebuchet in complete secrecy, and even more unlikely to take control of a flying crowd-control helicopter. Still, even with these details the story did go a long way to explaining at least the basics of how it was conceived, planned, prepared and executed.Even at this, the movie is absolutely worth it, and enjoyable even if you might have to raise an eyebrow at the occasional detail. If you keep a DVD or BluRay collection, this is a must-have. "},{"Title":"Nice Try","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This well-mounted and somewhat dark production features Robert Redford as a fallen general, imprisoned in a picturesque American military penal installation run by the mentally precarious James Gandolfini. With good production values and good performances by the leads and supporting players, the movie fails on its premise and its surrender to Hollywoodization in the finale. The script would have us believe that every single prisoner will follow Redford's lead in taking over the facility for the purpose of getting Gandolfini canned ... every one of them! It would have us believe that the guards are uniformly sadistic, and asks us to believe that Redford can marshal a medieval campaign complete with weaponry, without being detected in advance. And it never really explains WHY this man would resort to an uprising without having exhausted the official channels to obtain humanitarian treatment in the prison.All in all, we have a pretty good first hour followed by an unbelievable conclusion. I noticed that most of the reviewers of this movie on this site are from other countries, indicating that the picture went almost entirely unnoticed domestically; unusual for a Robert Redford picture, and one may only think that Mr. Redford either needed the money (hope not!) or was doing someone a favor. "},{"Title":"Don't rent this movie, but when it is on the television, sit back and enjoy","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Redford against the system. Redford is an imprisoned general, trying to beat the system. Of course the 'boss' of the prison is very picky on Redford. He sees him as a threat for his own status. By 'attacking' Redford and making his live miserable, he is kinda undermining his own position. Very predictable movie / film. Entertaining enough though. I would not rent it, but when it is on the TV, it is good enough to stay at home to watch it. Get some popcorn and enjoy. Good for an evening of entertainment. Don't expect any strange things happening. Although... at the end... but you have to watch for yourself. Redford is acting OK in this movie. Overall I give it a 5-er. "},{"Title":"Leadership roles","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Personally I thought this movie was O.K.  Redford's style for this brand of movie did not quite fit (the type of movie being bad of course, the only reason it is O.K. is from the headlining names and acting being mostly well done).  To get in depth to the film beyond the obtuse plot and the lack of reality, this story does have a few progressive figures that exemplify some major leadership qualities that I feel pick up the slack created by the producers and storytellers here.  It wasn't what was in the script that held these qualities, but in the actor's demeanor and how they did things. Gandolfini really made me believe he was trying to do what was right by being a hard ass, but his twitchy manner and inherent fear of the prisoners also held that underlying feeling of him playing god.  His manipulations and straight edge by the book rule, made him an effective leader to the guards (of whom several got a kick out of being the captors), but despised by the prisoners; while keeping them all in line.  Gandolfini's character's only flaw as a leader figure was his lack of creativity in battle, for up until the time of the war (riot) he was straight forward and predictable and Redford's character had him chasing his own shadow.  Now Redford's character (Gen. Irwin), was well written, he had inspiring speeches and courage, great networking ability and an excellent reputation.  His coming to the prison made the movie a bit easy though, in my opinion it should have been a lower ranking officer who had to work twice as hard and long to inspire.  Also, if anyone cares, did it seem like Redford was only half into this character? When he was there he was good, but it seemed like the other half he just said his lines and went home for the day.  Some of the best acting came from the lesser-known names, like Clifton Collins Jr. (Cpl. Aguilar). Sometimes the simplest character can be the most stirring as this actor's portrayal was of a mason workers son and the protection of his pride (the wall). Another movie to see how well he acts (even though the movie's concept has been overdone) is 187.  All in all with its good points, it needed something else to juice up the movie, maybe given more depth to events leading to Redford's incarceration or even his family.  The vagueness of these personal ties almost made it impossible to become emotionally involved in the movie and left you hanging, waiting for it, by the end.  So my recommendations are if you are going to see this movie, wait until someone else rents it and borrow it from them.     "},{"Title":"Predictable...","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Trite.  Predictable.  Inane.Take your pick of the 3 words above.  Watching The Last Castle made me think of each of them.  Just because a movie includes Robert Redford does not mean it is good.  I felt I was being spoken to, (during Redford's opening and closing narrative ,) as if I was too dumb to realize his castle rules.This movie has been done before.  References to the Vietnam War Memorial did not rub me the right way.  I felt it was disrespectful, (but that's just me.)This story could have been told MUCH better.  The problem was that the director felt the need to shove the plot down the viewer's throat.  Had director Rod Lurie taken the time to let plot develop and throw in a few moments of silence and contemplation, this could have been a great movie.Instead, it goes right next to the Blackhawk Down's and the We Were Soldiers as movies that tried too hard to be patriotic and in the process, sacrificed storyline.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One Final Stand for the Last Castle","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Eugene Irwin (Robert Redford) is a three star general.  During his service to his country, he became a war hero.  A mistake he made landed him a prison sentence in `The Castle.'  There he rebels against a cruel warden (James Gandolfini) when he finds out the warden is murdering his fellow inmates.  Irwin is now uniting the prisoners, and taking command in this single, last fight for a just, true system, and to reveal the corrupt running of the prison to the world. Rod Lurie the director wants his audience to understand that we can make a difference.  He wants us to know that we should never give up under any circumstances.  We should risk every thing, and withstand anything or anybody who would get in the way of proving our point.  The director wants to pump up our self-esteem.  He wants to tell us we can change things for the better.  He wants to empower us to want to fight for what we believe in. The prisoners in The Last Castle made a difference, we could too. There was a need for change, and the inmates unified to make that change happen. This film portrays a sense of honor, dedication, courage, and hope.  It gets into us making us feel the glory of the moment. Irwin was the warden's hero, before he arrived at the prison, but by the end of the movie Irwin was the warden's worst enemy.  While in the warden's office, Irwin made a comment about the warden's prized war artifact collection.  That comment sparked the warden's new hatred for Irwin.Irwin earned trust immediately from the other prisoners.  The way he made them a working unit was amazing, because before Irwin not many of the inmates got along.  `Hearts and minds.'  He offers them what they need in exchange for their loyalty. The warden's flag in this movie is really important, because it stood for what the prisoners were fighting for.  When I got to the end of the movie, I just sat back and thought about the other references to the flag and I understood the meaning. "},{"Title":"Doesn't earn what it seeks","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented the DVD. I liked the idea of the movie. I didn't care if it was going to be predictable or cliched or a bit far-fetched. I was ready to feel good about heroism and leadership and good guys triumphing over oppression. I was disappointed. The filmmakers evidently thought they could deliver what I wanted by stringing together feel-good moments using  contrived, cheezy plot details. What happened? Did they give the paragraph plot outline to an amateur to fill in? I did enjoy some of the acting, especially James Gandolfini as Colonel Winter, the warden. I did not find Redford compelling in his role as General Irwin. Maybe this was another shortcut - no need to develop the character, after all, its ROBERT REDFORD! 5/10 "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  At the very most this movie was entertaining. I made it through the whole thing but I think I laughed out loud at at least 3 scenes in the movie. The whole premise is completely silly and 90% of what it shows would never happen in real life nevermind a prison. I mean a catapult made under the Jails nose and noone notices? It throws rocks and quite perfectly into the wardens window? Robert Redford is about 60 and he carries huge piles of rocks back and forth for 12 hours? If you go into this one not looking for a great film but looking for some entertainment you won't be disappointed. I give it a 6/10 "}{"Title":"The Last Castle is no Shawshank Redemption!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is no Shawshank Redemption or The Green Mile. I was not even going to type a review on The Last Castle until one Friday night at work made me want to review this movie out of spite. Unfortunately I work at Blockbuster Video in Nashville, so there is nothing else better to do in Tennessee except rent movies and torture the poor and hard working cashier. I rented The Last Castle when it first came out for rental and I thought it was just okay. My main selling point to customers is that it was filmed in Tennessee. On this Friday night I had a customer ask me what I thought about the Last Castle and I told her what I thought about it. I thought it was full of cliches, corny, predictable, and over long. One could say this did not please her to say the least. So she made some kind of pithy comment and this is an actually quote Well maybe I like all that stuff. I had enough with this customer so I said well that is your problem. Once again she was not pleased and stormed off with her movie. She asked for my opinion and I gave her my opinion. I guess she wanted the b.s. answer. Enough with the ranting and venting, even thou most of these customers would not know a good movie if it swam up and bit them on the ass. Finally here is my review of the said movie The Last Castle, it is all of the things that I typed. It also has little character development, but the actors do a good job with what they had to work with, and the movie is entertaining and at least renting once. So if you want to waste two entertaining hours this is the movie to do that. Besides that there are worse prison movies and there both Stallone movies Lock Up and Tango and Cash. I have learned something from this experience and that is if you really don't ones opinion on anything do not ask even if you are just being polite and friendly. What happens in the end is that both of you go away p***ed off. I give this movie two out of four stars or a C grade. Thank you for your time and attention!  "},{"Title":"Tuesday night DVD rental","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Normally - I'd watch Robert Redford read a phone book and bepleased. Even a mainstay like RR can't drag a poorly crafted script forward ... that said, the movie  speaks to old fashioned virtues, which Isuppose, are the mainstay of the U.S. armed forces. Redford'sportrayal tries to make more of the screenplay's words than isactually there. Too bad really - the film has a top rate ensemble cast - interestingvisuals and lots of whiz bang. Was it worth $4 as a rental? On a Tuesday night during a latewinter storm? Sure, besides there's nothing on tv now that the Olympics are over!;-) "},{"Title":"Flag waving ahoy!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't want to see this film.  I was expecting a 3rd rate 'Shawshank' rip-off.  Unfortunately it fell far below that mark.  After a promising start, the film gets locked into a cycle of 'Warden does something naughty, Redford frowns'.  By the end of the film we have entered 'The A Team' territory with the finest homemade arsenal ever assembled being deployed against a whole lot of guns.  Oh and a very dissapointing ending.  All in all, not too good at all... "},{"Title":"Liked the movie, but . . .","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" . . . I find the thought of a three star general, a very high rank, being mixed in with, what are basically lawless enlisted men, hard to believe.  Usually themilitary would keep that sort of thing 'in-house' so to speak.  Discipline would be very discreet.  Maybe a quick retirement or, at worst, dishonourablydischarged. Not that I claim to be an expert here, but think about it. The movie was good overall, if you can see past this, but I had a hard time doing that.  It was a little like the Shawshank Redemption, but that was a little more plausible, and it is based on a true story.  Robert Redford was his usual high quality, and rest of the cast was great.  Overall a good movie, and worth seeing, but hard to believe as fact. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle is like so many other prison movies -- the Warden and his staff are the bad guys and the prison inmates are the good guys. Also, the inmates are timid prey to antagonistic guards. The opposite of both is a lot easier to believe, yet Hollywood recycles the same plot with different themes.Secondly, they've got this medieval-castle parody going on. The inmates manage to stage an uprising using homemade shields to repel rubber bullets used by the guards. The two forces of men clash into one another in battle reminiscent to Braveheart.  The inmates make and hide a full size catapult and use it. Give me a break! They hurl fire balls at tower guards and bring down a helicopter using a homemade bazooka-type weapon. The parody was like an episode of Seinfeld without humor. It's not only unrealistic it's dumb.  "},{"Title":"well worth it","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  yes its a great film... the newly digital flag looks well on post. and actors are plus in it.some films don't cut it in action and drama this one does!go see its worth what ever your evening price is at your local theatre. mines $7.00  "},{"Title":"predictable although very enjoyable","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before I saw this the credicts said they did not care for it, so i had my doubts. Although I liked it. Robert Redford did a very good job in the moive. He also had some good one-liners in it. James Gandolfini played a very good bad guy. The movie starts off very well and gets you going but ready for the last part.  I would highly recomend this movie. This movie is fun and shows that Robert Redford is still cool. "},{"Title":"'Castle' not built on high ground","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The primary problem of The Castle is it's core theme which asks you to believe that an entire population of military prisoners are just a bunch of good guys who need to be treated right in order to be loyal, effective and, aw heck, loveable. But also at this films core is the notion that the man to give them this treatment is Robert Redford. While no slacker in the charisma department, The Sundance Kid seems a bit too light for us to take the credibility leap needed to believe this a general who survived torture and multiple wars to end up here.The prisoners are a stock cast of types who get a brief definition but not enough so you are to either dislike them for any reason, or to their fault, truly get emotionally invested as well. Rod Lurie seems to have built his story on unstable ground in that his protagonists aren't all that compelling or driven (Redford's general wants to get out to spend time with his grandson and daughter and yet during the one scene with Robin Wright-Penn, Redford chooses glib responses and smart-aleck one-liners to avoid getting into any kind of honesty that Wright-Penn simply exudes. While it may be a choice for the general to defend himself emotionally, one must have a glimpse to see that this relationship is whats driving him throughout. Otherwise the scenes in which he pockets and holds his grandsons' photo have no depth and his motivation throughout lacks conviction). On top of this, Lurie hedges his bets and portrays Gandolfini and his prison cronies as, well, not all that bad.In the end one is left with an unrooted storyline about a prison uprising where you are never sure if you are truly on board for why it's happening. While Lurie has certainly shot the film well and it's stocked with great actors (the underused Mark Ruffalo and the always great Delroy Lindo) it never really gets off the ground. One can't keep you an arms length from the complexity of it's characters and then ask you to truly care about them when it most counts. "},{"Title":"Great actors but very unreal","Date":"22 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lt. Gen. Irwin (Robert Redford) is a war hero who got court-martial and sent to a maximum security military prison run be the cruel warden Col. Winter (James Gandolfini). Winter admires the popular Irwin. However Irwin doesn't see much in the paper pushing sycophant Winter. The two personalities clash.This is a rather slow moving drama. Robert Redford is going for the strong silent type. His nobility clanks at times. His perfection grades. His speeches are too flowery. Gandolfini needs to revel in playing the villain. He doesn't do it with enough glee nor is he menacing enough. The story feels very unrealistic. It has a feel of fable. It doesn't make it better. It takes away the tension. At times, it feels like a fantasy. Then they have fantasy medieval siege warfare. It's somewhat fun, but completely unbelievable. The movie has great actors, but it doesn't add up to a great movie. "},{"Title":"You're a disgrace, Colonel! A disgrace to the uniform! You should not be allowed to retain your command!","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A real officer doesn't demand respect; he earns it. It is a lesson that was lost on Colonel Winter (James Gandolfini). An officer may lead through fear, through being popular, and through taking the easy way, instead of the right way. It may lead to success and a long career, but it will not lead to respect. On the other side is Lt. Gen. Eugene Irwin (Robert Redford). He didn't act rashly. He gathered information. He made small moves designed to solidify his control. He taught his men self-respect, most especially with Cpl. Ramon Aguilar (Clifton Collins Jr.), and through their new found self-respect, they came to respect him despite the fact that he was a convicted felon just as they were.General Patton knew that men would die for leaders they respected. The General knew that also. It enabled him to win.There were many very good performances in this film, and I always enjoy watching Redford in a film that enables him to shine in a sea of suspense. "}{"Title":"Damn on Hollywood !","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It uses good directors with bad scripts.It forces big stars to be in junk projects just to be present, and to give them the chance to do what they really want after.And it puts the weirdest third acts just to fabricate a huge yet hollow scenes or to fake a glorious heroism anyway.Here all these bad symptoms are on. And the saddest matter is that it managed to be a descent movie till its dully melodramatic overblown ending (even making it as a fantasy in another time or in another plant would have never stopped the tragedy!).I accept it in just 2 cases. 1) As somehow a satire against America's war freaks or hidden dictators. Or, on a big scale, any military despot who turns his people into oppressed prisoners; so that's why Redford was trying desperately to save his country/the flag from this insane autocracy in the last scene whatever it takes. Though, with this insane dealing, it was the wrong way to do it. Or should I say the Hollywood way?! 2) As an entertaining movie. But part of the entertainment dies away duo to Gandolfini's performance which doesn't hold a candle to Redford's. And all the entertainment simply dies in the last 15 minutes; where the mind, any mind, must refuse a movie that loses its ! (The Last Castle) is a pure example of how Hollywood endings can ruin good movies. "},{"Title":"Would this movie have been different without September 11?","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I guess that I'm one of the few people who actually saw The Last Castle in the theaters. It gets drug down slightly by a semi-plausible plot, but the performances pretty much make up for that. Gen. Eugene Irwin (Robert Redford) is sentenced to jail after a botched mission. In jail, the inmates and even the warden (James Gandolfini) respect him, but he doesn't really hope for that. Still, Irwin wonders just how this new-found respect might help him in the long run...even if he has to break the rules.As far as I remember, this was the first major political-themed movie that came out after September 11. Obviously, they filmed it well before the attacks that day, but I have to wonder whether it would have seemed different without the attacks. Overall, I think that what it portrays is if nothing else more relevant after the attacks. Not the movie that I recommend most, but worth seeing. "},{"Title":"not great,but not terrible either","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Saw this film again tonight on British television,I had seen it already in the cinema.(films/movies are made to be seen in the cinema,they are not DVDs although they nearly all become DVDs after they have been in cinemas,I say all this because I am sick of people saying have you seen that DVD THE GREAT ESCAPE or whatever) The film features the struggle for power between Gandolfini playing the Colonel in charge of an army prison and Redford playing a former General imprisoned for disobeying orders while trying to seize a warlord in a fictional peacekeeping operation. Gandolfini is a small man,in size and in ability,but he has managed to become a colonel in the US army in a backwater of the service,a military prison. I am surprised by by the hate that this film has aroused in people on this site. I agree it is not a great film,but the acting by all the cast is good. The script has faults but it makes you think a little,the Colonel is the bad guy,but you can see why he has ended doing what he does,he knows that many of the inmates are dangerous and maybe evil and he feels the need to stay in charge,but he breaks the rules he is meant to uphold. Redford might seem at first to be the good guy,a big man,in size and reputation,but we learn that he was a bad father,he has big ego and we wonder if he rebels for the men or the reputation of the army ,or for his ego. The real heroes of the film ,I think are the prisoner/doctor and the prisoner/helicopter pilot. The doctor rebels but he knows that Redford is a flawed hero. The helicopter pilot also sees that Redford's motives are suspect,he also knows that the prisoners are bad guys. Someone on this site says that the message of the film is that prison is not fun and that of course it should not be fun. One of the messages of the film is that these men deserve to be there but they also deserve to be treated in the way laid down by the army,not by the invented rules of one man. I think it is important that Redford is in jail for disobeying orders,going against the army,and the Colonel is guilt of the same crime. Many of the people commenting on his film seem to "},{"Title":"Great acting and lively action","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We watched this movie simply because it was on and we like James Gandolfini.We were pleasantly surprised by the fine acting and action sequences.The movie is about morality, leadership and righting wrongs, in this case in a military prison harshly administered by an insecure Colonel, unblooded on the battlefield. It's not a great movie, the plot is a little too predictable for that. But you can identify with the characters, even the unpleasant ones, and it is an enjoyable two hours.I would have liked a different ending, and I thought the bit where Wheeler is dragged out by the prison guards was unconvincing, but overall we enjoyed it and would recommend it.A different type of military movie.  "},{"Title":"It's about leadership.","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's about leadership.  Does the leader tighten down the screws, block the alternatives, so that people will go the way he wants them to go?  Or does he do himself what he would ask anyone else to do, provide an example, reason about ends and means to obtain commitment?  Does one lead from the rear or from the front?There is also something here about values.  Do we want a secure, orderly, predictable, and quiet place to live?  Of course.  Can we be moved to action when we perceive injustice to others, taking on personal risk without expectation of personal gain?  One hopes so.Mr. Redford seriously acts the way he hasn't in many a recent movie.  Mr. Gandolfini is utterly convincing.  The movie sets up a totally involving dramatic conflict on the levels of ideas, personal commitment, and helicopters crashing and things exploding.I love this movie.  In it's class, second only to Twelve O'Clock High. "},{"Title":"Slightly Entertaining","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I'm glad I saw this film on HBO instead of paying money to rent it.  While it was moderately entertaining, I wouldn't be interested in adding it to my home movie collection.  The film starts out with two incidents that it fails to follow up on.  The first is a fight in the military prison between two inmates.  The music and fight leads you to believe that this will be like a lot of prison films people leading very hard lives, getting beat up on a daily basis, and having to fight to survive.  There was virtually none of this.  None of the prisoners are the least bit scary, and you expect them to hug each other by the final scene.  Robert Redford is immediately given respect for being a general, and doesn't have to earn anything for himself. The second surprise is that Redford's situation is left a mystery until halfway through the film.  It's alluded to several times early on that he is a 3 star general and he doesn't deserve to be in prison.  When it is finally revealed why he is in prison, it is a letdown.  You're expecting it to be a fairly prominent part of the film, and he's portrayed as someone who doesn't deserve to be there.  The director brushes over the explanation and the viewer learns that Redford, like every other prisoner, DESERVES to be in jail. This makes it very difficult to root for him when he decides to lead a gang of murderers and prisoners in an uprising against the warden.The other main problem with this film, is that Gandolfini doesn't come off as a very bad character.  Unlike the classic prison movies, you have a prisoner who deserves to be in jail, fighting against a warden who is supposed to be evil, but is never developed fully enough to show this. The whole time through the end of this movie, I kept thinking, these guys are killing innocent American soldiers who were stationed at the prison and are simply following orders.  While not many are killed, there are definitely a couple who go down permanently.  I'm supposed to be excited about this?  Overall, a lackluster hero, a weak villain, and a lack of a single escape attempt makes this a very weak prison movie.  This movie is tailor-made for Dolph Lundgren or Jean Claude Van Damme, not Robert Redford. "},{"Title":"Exciting,but nothing new","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of two films that mark the return of Robert Redford the actor to mainstream cinema.He had a three year break after Horse whisperer and he comes back in a solid and entertaining prison thriller.The role is new to Redford since he has rarely ever played a glorious military commander(the closest he came was A bridge too far) and i think he pulled it off well.This film also marks James Gandolfini of The Sopranos fame in one of his first major roles.And i think casting him in the part was a slight miss,as somebody else might have done it better.He manages to be stern and cruel in a convincing way,but he just doesnt have the look.Maybe its that iam used watching him play Tony Soprano,but i just couldnt get used to the idea of him as colonel Winters throughout the movie.There are a few strong supporting roles,specially the one played by Cliffton Collins jr. as the stuttering nervous wreck Aguilar,who is the victim of the film.Delroy Lindo did a nice cameo and he fits better for the part of a military than Gandolfini.The climax of the film justifies for a sometimes boring and exhausting rest.Yet this is a good film,no doubt.The issue wasnt new,it has been worked out in both good and bad films like The Hill,Escape from Alcatraz,Lock up etc.The Last Castle belongs to the better part.The action scenes where done very well and no actor failed in his,however small,part.I liked the confrontations between Redford and Gandolfini.Gandolfini is an excellent actor,dont get me wrong.The end was touching,although a bit cliche' filled.However,this is a typical Story of the soldier movie and the overall patriotism can be justified.So,without any reservations,i give this picture a 7.And i say good job Robert.Continue the good work.  "},{"Title":"Complex Director, or Director Complex","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Rod Lurie's films all provoke extreme diversity of opinion. This means that there is definitely something of critical and psychological interest in them, which no-one has yet been able to describe or pinpoint accurately. I do not claim to be able to do so (yet), but it seems to me you must first understand where he is coming from - his personality and career progression (West Point and the US Army, followed by a period as a film critic who on occasion provoked extreme reactions of hostility from the studios whose movies he criticized, and in the last few years an undoubtedly brave attempt to put his money where his mouth is (or was), by entering the world of directing.The fascination of Lurie's films is that they deliberately deal with taboo or near-taboo subjects, - things many people consciously do not like to think about, like the prospective dropping of a nuclear bomb (by the United States) on human beings (in Deterrence).  There is a mixture of insecurity and daring in these movies - a wish to see how far he can go while at the same time desperately wanting others' approval for the technical skill he uses in doing so.Unfortunately part of this mixture also means that his movies so far carry an overtone of syrupy and simplistic political propaganda. The Contender contains, amongst other barf-inducing horrors, a cringingly embarassing presidential speech scene in which the character, played by Jeff Bridges, extols the virtues of our glorious democracy. The Last Castle is less bad in this respect, though much of it (despite the inherent interest of the military/loyalty subject-matter) still makes one wince, especially the ending.Spielberg has had a long career and has made many strange and imperfect movies, before he succeeded with the brilliant and far-sighted (but not so popular) political movie Minority Report. Maybe one day Rod Lurie too will indeed make the definitive political movie he - for the moment, elusively - seeks. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all.","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is not the sort of film that you would expect Robert Redford to do but i'm glad he did because all in all this is a highly enjoyable movie.It's great to see James Gandolfini getting some top film roles too after his brilliant performances in the Sopranos.Here he plays the roll of a military prison governor who after taking in a top ranking officer as a prisoner starts to lose his grip on the prison he runs. Although a lot of what goes on is very far fetched this film is none the less very entertaining and the 130 minutes soon flies by. Better than i expected. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Strange resemblence to 1965 The Hill","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was just watching the 1965 Sean Connery movie when I realized it had a remarkable resemblance to The Last Castle  Connery plays a distinguished Sergeant Major who has been sent to a British Military prison for striking an officer.  He faces the brutality of the commendant.  This commendant kills a man via the strennous regimen the men are forced to endure day in a day out.  My opinion after seeing both is you are better off watching The Hill with Connery "}{"Title":"Ridiculous, and a total waste of time","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***SPOILERS  ALARM***What a waste. How come such an intelligent people can participate in such a bad movie! The main (and fatal) problem is, of course, the script. It is so full of clichés, so illogical, so - why not say it - stupid, that it insults the audience. It could easily pass as a parody on patriotic jail movies.And the ending. Come on! Give us a LITTLE credit. The worst soap opera is preferable, because soap operas do not pretend to be what they are not. "},{"Title":"Even if you normally dislike war films, this one is worth viewing. You might be surprised.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I felt this was the best performance by Robert Redford in a long time. He said so much in this film by saying relatively little, which somehow works for him.  This film presents a positive message which I interpreted as, Even when you have seemingly lost everything, hold onto your self respect and stand up for what you believe in. This film also drives home that once a soldier, always a soldier. I, for one, am a sucker for the American Flag that flew beautifully in this film.With renewed patriotism in this country post 9/11/01, there have been so many patriotic/war movies come our way of late. This movie, although made prior to 9/11 is refreshingly different. It will put a tear in your eye and a little choke in your throat without the overwhelming amount of blood and guts seen in films like Saving Private Ryan or Behind Enemy Lines, not that I am comparing this film to SPR or BEL in any other way.For those General Hospital fans out there, it was nice to see Steve Burton (Jason) in a role so tailored for his stoic persona. Now we know what he was up to while on leave from G.H. a few years ago.  "},{"Title":"Terrific Performances + Implausibilities/Bad Ending = Good Movie That Could Have Been Great","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoilers!! THE LAST CASTLE is the kind of good near-miss film that, in a way, is much more frustrating than a film that is truly and unredeemably awful. People watch a film like KUNG POW! ENTER THE FIST and know (if they hated the film--I'm assuming most people who saw that abomination didn't like it very much) that nothing could have been done to save it. But THE LAST CASTLE is a movie that's faraway and so close; the things in it that work aren't blotted out by the stuff that doesn't, but they are overshadowed to an unfortunate extent.What works? Simply put, the performances, especially the lead performances, are superb. Robert Redford has never had a problem playing characters who are leaders, who are used to getting what they want. The brilliant twist on that, presented through General Eugene Irwin, is that Redford doesn't just start out not really wanting anything, he basically finishes the film that way too. Oh, he wants Colonel Winter to lose his job and to give the ex-soldiers in the prison their pride and respect back, but he wants nothing for himself--after he concedes that he will not have a chance to have a relationship with his daugher and grandson. That 1 scene with Robin Wright Penn ends up selling, believably, Irwin's turn from wanting to do his time quietly to being a martyr for the cause of others. He doesn't even seem to hate Winter that much, he's just disgusted by him, and driven to show that he's a better military man at 10% of his resources than Winter is at 100%. Mr. Redford is great at showing a man who lives for the burden of command, even though that burden has left him imprisoned and could kill him.James Gandolfini is even better as Winter. It's very interesting, the way Mr. Gandolfini changes his persona so subtly to fit the role of Winter. Obviously, one difference is that his voice is almost deathly silent, a fair cry from the booming rage/joy/commanding nature of Tony Soprano, but his voice is also leeched of emotion; there's none of the introspection and black humor his Leroy had in THE MEXICAN. Something bad happened to Winter (never revealed explicitly what that was) that ruined him. He knows that he is all that he can be and that it's not nearly enough, and that Irwin either has the parts he's missing or had the life that enabled him to find them. The brilliant development in Rod Lurie's script is seeing how much Winter hates himself, and is ultimately not surprised that Irwin doesn't even care enough to hate him in return. This was an Oscar-caliber turn by Mr. Gandolfini. The other performances are on the sides, but Mark Ruffalo, Frank Military, Clifton Collins, and Steve Burton are all great in roles with rich characterization but limited screen time. And Delroy Lindo commands the screen in his brief turn as a General who doesn't even try to hide that he believes every word of Irwin's over Winter's.That's what drives the first 3/4 of THE LAST CASTLE and is very compelling. Unfortunately, 90 minutes of terrific filmmaking are badly undercut by the poor finale. Oh, in a dramatic sense this kind of climax is good, and the final scene is actually good, but the action scenes here are pathetic. There's no clear sense of action, the items the prisoners use are deus ex machina overkill, and the climactic effort (by Ruffalo's helicopter pilot) had me snickering when I should have been enthralled. So it was a mixed bag, but when a movie keeps you going for most of a 2 hours+ length and has such great acting, it gets a positive overall review.Note Some folks have criticized the flag-waving material in the film and said it reeked of hyper-patriotism after 9/11. THE LAST CASTLE finished filming long before 9/11, and the emphasis on the American flag in the plot of this movie is not only appropriate, but intelligent in showing the role of the flag in military leadership. Ironically, the early posters for THE LAST CASTLE featured an upside-down American flag (the distress signal), which were quickly (and also appropriately) changed after 9/11 to ones with Redford's and Gandolfini's faces.  "},{"Title":"Poor idea and even poorer execution.","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle tries to show that there is good in everyone.  Many of these prisoners apparently committed serious crimes.  Yet, here they are as good guys.  Robert Redford, as the defrocked general doesn't seem to believe the plot either.  I didn't think that James Gandolfini as the prison warden was as bad or evil as the writers tried to make him out to be.  He had to contend with some very bad people in prison, and yes, he might have been a little brutal.  However, how else does one act toward buildings full of psychopaths?Warning Spoiler coming up......How did the prisoners build the trebuchet in the prison without anyone noticing?  It was a fairly large machine.  We are not told how and where this weapon and all of the other weapons were constructed.  I found this to be the most unbelievable part of the movie.All in all, I thought that this movie was a waste of good talent due to the poor script. "},{"Title":"Very American - but still pretty good","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even though this film suffers from admiring everything without question that is American (Flag, the Army, Ranks...), this was a pleasure to watch.  Robert Redford was the right choice as he represent as an actor the same sort of admiration as the caracter he plays.  James Gandolfini was also great, making his caracter a person - instead of just the bad guy.  There are sadly not many surprises in the film, and not much originality.  What saves the film though is solid acting and beautiful film shoots.   "},{"Title":"A laughable, implausible feel-good remake of a quality film","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am fan of both Robert Redford and James Gandolfini(at least pre-Sopranos,) and although I knew this was a Hollywoodized remake of a really good movie, I expected it to be at least passable. I saw it recently on DVD.  What a joke.  They are all really good at heart, just misunderstood.  As though a military prison runs with the same lack of discipline as a civilian one. And (MINOR SPOILER, I suppose) just where did they hide the trebuchet? Anyway, see the original, The Hill,(1965) with Sean Connery.  No explosions, b&w, no feel good ending, but a movie to remember. "},{"Title":"Shawshank wannabe fails in the script.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The only person in this movie that's good is Robert Redford.  Thats it.  Go watch Spy Game.  This movie is a tad far fetched.There really three instances of glaring mistakes in this film.(spoilers??)1.  What happened to Yates for him to change his mind about being a snitch?  Never truely developed this idea on either side.2.  Towards the end, the main officer gives the command for Doc to help Irwin.  Then another officer contradicts the command and forcibly removes doc from Irwin.  That was a headache.  WTF was that about?  Why write it into the movie?  3.  The most glaring idiotic moves was where they hid the weapons.  You would think this area would be heavily guarded or watched.  How could they get away with hiding all those weapons in the wall rock pile?  For an awfully smart bunch of soldiers (skip the head bad dude) they either were too stupid or ignored what they saw.  (much like the WTC  FBI/CIA screw up.... whoops..  did I let a political idea into this review??  oops)So in the end, while I thought some of the performances were decent, nothing to help this movie for it's bad writing.I have even worse things to say about the dvd design.  It's a slapdash design.  I hate it.  It'll give you a darn good headache trying to navigate it.  Again Spy Game beats them in this department as well.  Especially in it's easter egg dept.4/10Quality 2/10 Entertainment 7/10 Replayable 4/10 "},{"Title":"What we've got here is...","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...failure to make something originalAs a big fan of prison movies (er...Lesbian B movies being the exception), I was thoroughly disappointed with this feature. This followed the identical play book Cool Hand Luke.- man enters prison - man becomes inspiration to other inmates - man turns prison on its ear - man unjustly killed at the endAlso I find it very hard to believe that a Major General would be sent to military prison. More than likely the general would be sent off to pasture with pension of course. It is also unlikely that a military prison would have just guards with shotguns manning the towers.The only redeeming quality here was of course Robert Redford, whose talent could even spark some excitement into a documentary on the mating habits of the Cuban Tree Frog.In all, Last Castle is very disappointing...considering that it came from the same studio that produced Saving Private Ryan and Gladiator. "},{"Title":"More Hollywood pap about prison reform","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Welcome to a world where the bad guys are good and the good guys are despicable.  The `castle' is a military prison run by a harsh, ego maniacal warden (James Gandolfini) and it seems bad things are being done to bad people in the name of discipline.  Lieutenant General Eugene Irwin (Robert Redford) finds himself incarcerated with these reprobates and promptly finds the good in them, ultimately inspiring them to enlist in his noble inmate army to fight for humane prison reform.Once again, Hollywood gets on its soapbox to preach to us about the rights of these fine upstanding violent criminals who are being victimized by society by having to endure the injustices of the penal system, just because they killed, maimed, raped or broke some other really unfair and irrelevant rules.  You see they are really decent guys at heart.This must be a pet cause of Robert Redford's because this is the second prison reform film in which he has starred.  The other was `Brubaker', where a reform minded warden enters the prison population to experience life in the yard, so he can get a prisoner's view of the conditions before he takes command.  Needless to say, he finds them entirely too inhospitable and immediately reforms the prison so they can all become model inmates and future civic leaders.The problem I have with this Hollywood version of reality is that they always make the authority figures evil, corrupt and sadistic, while making the prisoners into pure souls who are just trying to get by while living in these oppressive conditions.  Clearly, in real life the opposite is true, which is why I have major difficulty conjuring up any sympathy for them.The film itself pulls all the right strings, but it is contrived and unrealistic at every turn.  General Irwin's personality is completely different from the background information we have about him.  All the character development about his past indicates a hard boiled career officer. Yet, what we see in prison is a soft spoken, touchy-feely pussycat that sees the good in everyone.  The entire plot to take over the prison is full of improbabilities and incredulities (as if they could be building a makeshift trebuchet without raising suspicion; and prisoners would have easy access to gallons of flammable liquids with which to make Molotov cocktails).  Also laughable is the notion that a guard in a tower, sharpshooter or not, could consistently hit a prisoner in the head with a pump shotgun with rubber bullets and no scope from the standing position at a distance of two to three hundred feet.  How gullible do they believe we are?The acting is excellent and director Rod Lurie keeps the story moving, while drawing us in emotionally to identify with the plight of the prisoners. The action sequences are well done.  This is a technically excellent film that is effective at what intends to do, namely turning the bad guys into heroes and getting us to root them.  Still, not many of the movie-going public fell for it as the film failed to gross even one third of its $60 million budget.This is a good film with naïve political subtext and an utterly contrived plot.  I rated it a 6/10.  If you really want a great film about overcoming adversity, where the prisoners actually ARE the good guys, see `The Bridge on River Kwai'.  "},{"Title":"Pass the Coffee","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Unbelieveable and overly dramatic and long, The Last Castle is made of sand.  From the quasi-salute between prisoners to Robert Redford's hauling stones for hours upon end, the predictable script left me wondering - who built this castle and who cares?  No new ground here... If you like Redford, go for Spy Games instead...  4 out of 10... "}{"Title":"Oy Vey what a stinker!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Boy, for such a powerhouse cast, this movie was pretty darn bad.  I mean Redford, Gandolfini, Lindo, and Robin Wright, how can you go wrong?  Oh you can, you can go very wrong.  The script is horrendous, the story is imminently implausible. It feels like a child's stereotypical idea of what a prison would be like.  Just one prison movie cliche piled on top of another.  In an early scene, a big black guy and small hispanic guy get in a brutal knock-down drag-out racially-charged fist-fight in the yard over a basketball game, but two scenes later these two are great friends.  In fact the two guys' personalities are actually pretty cool, how the hell did they ever get to the point where they hated each other's guts? Unbelievable. A stuttering inmate gets ridiculed and pushed around by a psychotic, rough-neck, but a couple of scenes later, they bond and become best buddies because the stuttering inmate knows a thing or two about masonry. Implausible. Childish.The dialogue, though sometimes good, is mostly laughable.  Redford, Gandolfini and Lindo do a decent job of acting, but not even Sir Laurence Olivier and Orson Welles could save this movie.  All the acting in the world is not going to overcome a horrible script.  And thats exactly what this movie feels like.  A B-movie script made with A-list actors and budget.Some unintentionally funny scenes include one where the stuttering inmate goes to salute but instead brushes back his hair and fakes out Redford, whilst giggling like a schoolgirl. This causes Redford to chuckle painfully (I was waiting for some wah-wah-wah trumpet sound-effects).  Another is the inspirational scene where Redford is moving rocks from one end of the yard to the other, and everyone is cheering him on like he's Rudy Rudiger in the big important Notre Dame football game or something. Of course, all the inmates instantly end up loving and respecting Redford after this one scene.Pathetic.  It actually hurts to watch such good actors stoop to such a low standard.  Oh well, I hope they got some fat paychecks for this. "},{"Title":"Redford is a stud, but this movie sucks","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, I am sorry, but this movie is contrived, boring, implausible, and a real disappointment from Robert Redford.  How can he not have better scripts to look at that this POS?  Other than Ordinary People and A River Runs Through It, Redford has been in one disappointing film after another since The Sting. "},{"Title":"A Great Ride","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing really bad things about this movie, the inmates being too friendly, Gandolfini and Redford not fit for the role, I was skeptical at first when picking it up at the local Blockbuster. The idea of a retired general taking over a military prison was a very un-realistic idea, but it sure would make for a fun ride. That?s what I got, a fun ride. There is lots of cussing in the beginning to toughen up the images of the military soldiers who have been stripped of their rank. Redford was fit for this role, but Gandolfini didn?t have that harshness in his voice when he yelled, thus leaving much to be desired for a bad guy. Sure, the prisoners were pretty willing to do what Redford wanted them to do, but not much attention was spent on them. Lots of action in the end, and although anything like this is highly unlikely to ever take place, it sure is worth the money. "},{"Title":"Predictable ending.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a fairly solid seven pointer until the climax which was pretty weak and you saw everything coming before it happened. Good performances from Redford and Gandolfini in particular, rounding off a very good cast let down by the finale. "},{"Title":"Memorable for Robin Wright's first Cameo part","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie is long, 133 minutes.It is a military movie and you have to like this genre, otherwise...all the saluting prisoners and the palaver about army, navy and soldiers in common will get on your nerves.  Sporadically the movie is worth seeing for its different characters, but they are all subject to the mainstream-stereotyped and too-often-seen-story.Robert Redford's character Gen. Eugene Irwin is too flamboyant to be a real person. The only scene where he seems to be tangible for the audience is when his daughter, Rosalie Irwin, visits him. She is played by Robin Wright in an unbilled cameo, and this scene is just wonderful. I don't know what is has to do with the rest of the movie, but Redford and Wright make this the most memorable moment of the whole movie. The rest of the story is full of narrow-gauge psychology and the so-called confrontation of Redford and Gandolfini is dull, because Redford is always right while Gandolfini has almost no chance against superman-Redford. Patriotic score, obvious story elements are marketed as new.Wonderful cast (Redford is good, although his part is not; Gandolfini only has one weak moment and that is this embarrassing scene at the end; Steve Burton is not as bad as in General Hospital, Clifton Collins,jr. is very likeable and Mark Ruffalo is as good as his part allows him to be. Robin Wright is perfect.)5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Gandolfini Rules","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite a clever, if implausible plot line, The Last Castle goes haywire because James Gandolfini, as the sadistic warden of a military prison, steals the show from legendary heart-throb and leading man, Robert Redford. Gandolfini can take the creakiest line -- and they're lots of 'em -- inflect it with savory intonation and intent and deliver it with lurid gusto, like someone who sucks on an olive, devours the meat and spits out the pit. He's a marvel to to listen to and watch   peering through his steel-frame specs into a cell door peephole, he makes the scene into a confessional box where the priest confesses his atrocities.My problem with the film is Redford's role   an imprisoned 3-star general, a stretch by any standard, is held up as the motivator and inspiration for honor and moral behavior among felons. I seirously doubt that the current general staff in the US is up to so noble a calling.The final 20-minute siege of the prison is exciting. Other scenes. though, are badly cut -- as when warden Winters receives the letter. The musical score by Jerry Goldsmith, aping Aaron Copeland, is trite and atrocious.   "},{"Title":"Typical prison movie","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  New inmate who the rest of the prisoners will soon respect and follow  checkYoung upstart who will need some hard work to bring around to the good guys  checkWarden who is a very naughty boy  checkInspirational speech  checkThe smallest bit of originality  uhhhhhhhh, it's a military prisonIf you haven't guessed by now, I don't think that this movie is particularly good.  It's very far from terrible, but it really is the same old prison movie that we've seen over and over again.  That's not to say that a prison movie that follows the formula can't be good.  The Shawshank Redemption was very good (I know I'm overstating the obvious, but this movie begs the comparison).In Col Winter (Gandolfini) we have the usual overseer of the prison who is a bad guy.  He's a guy that we hate.  He's a guy that doesn't deserve his position.  He's a guy who is drunk on his own power and has lost control of his emotion.  Of course we know this because that's what we're told.  All of those inmates (every last one of them a decent human being) tell us this.  This certainly saves the writer a lot of time.  This way, he or she doesn't have to establish Winter as a bad man through his actions or character development.  Just have some one say it.  This technique is also used in developing the hatred between Winter and Irwin (Redford).  It all happens so quickly (and thank goodness for that, now we can get to the wonderful action sequence at the end).Which brings me to the battle (trust me, I'm not putting any spoilers in here).  We have to remember who the director is.  Rod Lurie did last years' 'The Contender'.  This can't be your typical action scene.  This has to be the thinking man's action scene.  So let's throw some chess references in the movie early on.  That way, we can stage the battle so that the two leads will be caught in a battle of wits where they try to stay one step ahead of the other.  Look out Sundance!  La Fours is right on your tail!  If you honestly wonder who will end up on top, you probably wonder in Rudolph will save Christmas again this year.Finally (and I feel kind of stupid bringing this up) the cinematography in the first half of the movie left a lot to be desired.  The first twenty minutes suffered from a bad case of sweeping camera disease.  The movie is shot in scope, so once the camera does sit still, we have a lot of shots where two characters are at opposite ends of the screen at the same time.  Now there's nothing wrong with that except that when one is in the foreground and one is in the background, one of them is supposed to be out of focus.  Mr. Lurie and director of photography Shelly Johnson seem to feel that having both in focus would be best.  So they shot them both separately and splice them together like it was a kung fu actor playing two roles.  Why can't we just accept the medium of photography?  A film is supposed to look a certain way.  When you change that, it's distracting.  I've seen animated movies where the background is made to look out of focus.  If we can accept it there, why not in real life? "},{"Title":"2.5/5 stars","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gen. Irwin Robert Redford Col. Winter James Gandolfini Yates Mark Ruffalo Irwin's Daughtor Robin Wright-PennDirected by Rod Lurie. Written by David Scarpa and Graham Yost. TRT 101 minutes. Rated R (for language and violence.)Contains Spoilers There's a degree of artistic license that I'll allow, as long as it's instrumental in forwarding either character or plot development. Former film critic Rod Lurie's The Last Castle is a highly entertaining fluff piece, which he believes, holds a profound and intellectual message. And because the movie takes itself so seriously, I cannot allow myself to ignore the barrage of improbable situations the screenplay presents.Robert Redford plays General Irwin, a highly decorated officer who has been court martialed and arrested for not following orders. He ignorantly ordered a Special Forces unit to infiltrate a foreign drug lair. Nine of his soldiers were brutally murdered. He's sentenced to ten years in a maximum-security prison in the aptly nicknamed Castle, similar to Leavenworth. His poor decision making isn't limited to work, but his personal life as well. On the day he's incarcerated, the daughter he abandoned (Robin Wright-Penn) visits and wishes him the best.Colonel Winters (James Gandolfini) runs the Castle. He's a voracious collector of military garb. His workplace has the appearance more of a museum than that of warden's office. Winters is the unlucky recipient of Gen. Irwin, who says the Army should be naming bases after the man, not sending him here. When the two meet, Winters asks Irwin what he expects from his time. Irwin replies, to do my time and go home. Of course, if that were to happen, it wouldn't have been much of a movie.Nope. Because like Bandits, the good guys are really villains and the evildoers are the heroes. Turns out there's speculation that Winters is corrupt. When there's the occasional uprising, he orders his guards to shoot the inmates with rubber bullets. Now that won't necessarily kill you, except if they hit you in the head. A couple errant shots knocked erstwhile soldiers in the noggins. So the prisoners warn Gen. Irwin about the treatment. Well that's enough to set Irwin off. So he builds an army inside the pen. Because they aren't allowed to refer to each other by rank, or salute, they create a language of non-verbal cues to fool the guards.Prisoner Yates (Mark Ruffalo) initially wanted nothing to do with the mutiny. He had himself a profitable business as a bookmaker, making bets as mundane as predicting the weather, to as malicious as betting on whether Gen. Irwin would commit suicide. Turns out, Yates' father and Irwin were POW's in Hanoi. Together they request Winters to resign. When they're refused, Irwin and Yates construct a battle plan to revolt.Between the plot point I finished with and the closing credits, there are surpluses of unlikely events that make this film a mockery. The prisoners assemble weapons, some of mass destruction like a makeshift catapult that not one guard noticed being built. And when they're not mimicking MacGyver, they're tackling the tanks Winters orders to attack them. Even Blackhawk choppers equipped with enough firepower to annihilate a small town are no match for the supposedly wrongfully imprisoned soldiers.The screenplay is most pathetic when Redford's character uses his fellow inmates as pawns because of his foolishly authoritative behavior. I kept wondering about the men on the front lines of the prison brawl, plenty of which die. And since when did a maximum-security prison become an appropriate landscape for a warzone? Sure Irwin's a general, and mind can overcome matter, but the accumulation of ridiculously scripted events left me shaking my head.What saves this film from simply becoming another Speed is that the actors take the brain dead dialogue and resuscitate it. Robert Redford appeared like an authentic general, uplifting his faulted character past its intended boundaries. James Gandolfini's does a remarkable job in a role that requires him to be a relative weakling despite his stature. However, nobody is better than Mark Ruffalo, who deserves to be a leading man. There's nothing spectacular in his presentation, just the command he has over the other actors is frightening.After loving Lurie's first film The Contender, my expectations were relatively high for The Last Castle. A key differences between the films is that Lurie wrote the script for his former film, and merely directed the latter. Another point to be made is that with a film like this, where the prisoners are the favorites, there truly isn't conclusion that would satisfy everyone. They didn't satisfy me. The Last Castle is only a good movie if you allow yourself to pretend that it's based in a fantasy world. I can't. I reside on Earth.(star) (star) 1/2 "},{"Title":"Unbelievable and pathetic","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Although Robert Redford does a fair job in his role as the condemned Lt. General Eugene Irwin (probably Jack Nicholson would do well in the role as well), this movie has some major flawsFirst of all, the bad guy (Colonel Winter, played by James Gandolfini) is just a bit too bad; shooting inmates in the head just for disobeying the order to face the ground is just a bit too harsh to be really believable, not to mention the outcry from human rights associations such a policy would provoke.Secondly, there are some overly emotional moments in the movie; for example when the inmates start singing the song of the US Marine Corps, it just gets too pathetic to be bearable; after all, why would they admire a part of a system that put them into the joint in the first place? Thirdly, the movie is over-predictable the traitor turns a hero after all, the retard will die a hero's, the system will fail to break General Irwin, etc.Being generous, I give this movie 2 out of 10 only because of the well-paced action-scenes in the end (although the end as such is among the worst I have seen). "},{"Title":"GIVE THIS FILM THE BOOT","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When this film first came out, I was very anxious to see it.  I finally got that opportunity thanks to HBO.  To say that I was disappointed would be a major understatement.  Where to begin, let's see.  The first thing that one must consider is that this film is set in a military prison.  As a member of the Armed Forces, I can tell you that persons held in a military prison are STILL IN THE MILITARY until they have completed their sentences.  As such, the inmates would be wearing military uniforms, and the last time I checked, do rags and orange skull caps were not part of any uniform that I am aware of.  Secondly, I seriously doubt that a 3 star general would be sentenced to prison in the first place.  If he committed a crime at all, he would probably be forced to retire, go quietly into the sunset and never be heard from again.  Third, let's talk about the character, COL Winter.  (a) I doubt that he would pass the Army Physical Fitness Test or be in compliance with the regulation covering weight control.  (b)  His rank is on the collar of his uniform in the WRONG POSITION!!  The same can be said about his aide, the captain.  The Armed Forces has an office that will assist film makers to ensure that the persons being depicted as being in the Armed Forces are being portrayed accurately.  Obviously, the makers of this film did not bother to consult with them.  I am not sure if the film makers wanted to make a military film or a prison film, but what they would up with was the worst type of film possible, a convoluted hybrid of both that does neither genre justice.   Give this film a DISHONORABLE DISCHARGE!  "}{"Title":"Entertaining, but Redford very poor","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle is a fun exciting movie that will please the viewers. It is a movie that will be enjoyed, but Redford was very poor. He didn't really act, just playing a general who doesn't care much for anything. (He didn't even play this boring part very well) The writing is the poorest part of the movie, with lots of corny lines given to Redford, which makes him look worse. I didn't see anything in this movie that would make it good, its just fair. Its fun, but not deserving of any recomendation. Not worth watching. 2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"What a yawner!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Even Robert Redford couldn't save this joke of a movie. Yet another decent plot falls flat on its face. What's supposed to be a fight between the system and prison inmates reminded me more of a bunch of 10 year old kids having a snowball fight. This movie would be over-rated if given 1 star! "},{"Title":"A typical hollywood movie that tries to push the usual buttons","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie obviously is trying to push that righteous, patriotic button in you.  But it is over the top and all for no apparent reason.I guess it comes down to whether these prisoners are more soldiers or prisoners.  I would not think they would be so motivated and risk their life for what the Robert Redford character wants out of this whole situation.  But as usual, the movie tries to stir up your emotion by throwing these righteous themes.The battle scene seems discontinuous, with discrete stages instead the mayhem that should have been going on.  So it made for a not so big buildup to the finale, which is the face to face confrontation of the good vs the bad guy.Gandolfini is good as the insecure warden that has met his match.  Redford is his usual self, being the quiet, strong type, always with the bigger and higher vision. "},{"Title":"Overwrought, well-made, ill-conceived. Who's the enemy?","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Beautifully acted, photographed and directed, but ill-conceived piece of crap. An insult to the military and our intelligence. Gandolfini plays a Mafia hit man, but wearing the uniform of the USA. Redford doing his prison revolt thing from Lousiana, but this time taking on the US military, for no purpose.There are bad people in the world -- but they shouldn't be making films. "},{"Title":"Roy Hobbs vs. Tony Soprano in Prison","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford and James Gandolfini clash in a military prison drama that is more a war of wills between the two men rather than the action movie that the ads make it look like it to be.Redford is sent to The Castle, an old military prison, for disregarding orders while leading a mission.  However, he had admitted his errors and is looking to do his time and go home.  His dignity soon makes him a magnet for the other prisoners.Gandolfini, as the head of the prison, is someone who looks down on all the prisoners, and is a little obsessed in keeping them in control (in an early scene, he deliberately sets up a situation where a fight among two prisoners is assured).  However, with Redford's character now in the jail, the balance of power in the prison slowly moves toward his way, something that Gandolfini tries to fight.  This inevitably leads to the Hollywood-standard prison riot at the end of the movie.The movie has some plot holes (how, for example, did they get all the weapons in a maximum-security prison), but the acting of the two main stars holds up the movie.  Redford plays a very understated officer who is more interested in doing the right thing.  Gandolfini plays the roll of a control freak without going overboard in his acting, which would have been pretty easy (look to Donald Sutherland in `Lock Up' for a good example of how Gandolfini could have gone wrong).The film is nothing that special, but a decent movie to see if it comes on cable.  "},{"Title":"very sophisticated satire","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the false main idea of the movie is on the surface, but the real one is beneath. The American Army has no subordination, for some person there are no laws (I mean that insane disgraced general). And in fact, there are such cases when one man who is motivated solely by his pride. A man who will do anything for one more victory notch on his belt, no matter what the cost can waste not only his life, but also lives of his followers. I think that this movie is meant to point it out and make community concerned about such insane war leaders. "},{"Title":"decent once you get past the layers of patriotic over dramatization","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***This movie borrowed a lot from movies like Shawshank Redemption.  At times I even expected to hear Morgan Freeman begin to narrate Andy was a quiet man....  Still, at its core, this movie was decent and worth watching.Unfortunately, most of the story gets buried under heaps of irritating American patriotic dramatization.  Saluting, drumming dog tags, praising the flag, singing war songs; after a while it gets very annoying.  Just about everything Robert Redford's character says winds up with him giving some long winded speech about what it is to be a soldier.  And are American soldiers truly that obsessed about their flag?Anyways, the plan that the prisoners hatch is fun to watch unfold even if some of the elements seem a bit far fetched.  It truly was the high point of the movie and was worth sitting though all the military politics to get there.  To be honest, this movie seems as though it started out as a cool prison breakout-style movie but heaps of go USA sentimentality tacked to cash in on the latest war the US is currently fighting.  I'm sure a lot of non-Americans like myself were groaning at all the cliches.To conclude, the movie *was* worth watching, the acting is legitimate, the plot, although not original, was well executed, and despite all efforts of the producers to practically smother us in American patriotism, this movie was not only bearable, it was rather entertaining. "},{"Title":"Simple minded amusement.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Based on R1 DVDAfter the visually impressive opening sequence; anyone get a Shawshank flashback; this movie runs rumbles through it's meager collection of themes with flair if not sophistication. This is cartoon good guy, bad guy stuff on a grand scale - 133 minutes of 100% Yankee Doodle popcorn.6/10 worth watching.  "},{"Title":"A liberal love-fest","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was nothing more than a liberal love-fest.  It was based on half-truths and a total lack of common sense.The basic plot of the movie is that a 3-Star General gets thrown into prison for 10 years, for a mistake he made that resulted in the deaths of 18 (the number may be wrong) people.  The General, being a very great and honorable leader, immediately rises to the head of the prison population.  His grand emotional vision is such that all of the imprisoned scum follow him in unison, and he leads them in a *war* against the Colonel in charge of the prison because his methods in running the prison are inhumane.It's the typical liberal plot of the patients running the asylum.  In short, it's a bunch of crap.  The ideology is destructive, false, and the concept of rapists, murderers, child molestors, and other scum, being respectable makes me want to puke. "},{"Title":"Pretentious, predictable baloney","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good cast is totally wasted in this misbegotten mess.  Virtually every scene has another element that simply cannot be believed on any level. It's contrived, with lousy dialog and stereotyped characters from top to bottom; it's hard to imagine what, other than money, attracted the likes of Robert Redford, James Gandolfini and Delroy Lindo to this waste of film. "}{"Title":"Well made enjoyable rubbish","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I glanced over some other reviews of The Last Castle before commenting here and see that it comes under a lot of harsh criticism. One of these points I agree upon in that The Last Castle, a story of military prisoners struggling to overthrow their evil oppressor (played by James Tony Soprano Gandolfini), is at times sickeningly patriotic (just wait for the final few moments - eugh). Go American Marines! You rock!! You're the greatest!! etc... But I can forgive that.Firstly the acting is all grand. Now I don't think anybody was particularly troubled by this movie. Robert Redford, playing the lead role of US veteran Irwin, doesn't strain himself nor does Gandolfini playing the oppressor Colonel Winter. None of them shine here but they do what they're paid to do well enough that we can find them believable.The directing is competent. It doesn't stand out but Rod Lurie obviously has no need to be particularly innovative. As is usual the composer Jerry Goldsmith tends to go OTT with the score in a bid to drag us into the movie but, in this case, tending to push us away (such as when Redford moves a big pile of rocks..)The movie's weakest point is David Scarpa's script. It reeks too much of pappish American sentimentalism. The characters come across as mis-treated American veterans rather than the actual criminals they are. The argument is one sided - Gandolfini's character makes some half-decent arguments but they're side-lined by the need to have the characters march all around the place saluting one another (or brushing their hair..). There's too much of this twee glorification and we're-great-aren't-we (witness the sickeningly cloying character of Aguilar) and this element continues right until the *very* end (you're choking at this point as you almost expect a stirring round of the US anthem to start up). The other element of weakness is the revolt by the prisoners which sees them try to take the prison guerilla style. It's amazing how effective they are - they'd give MacGuyver a run for his money as they whip out home-made rocket launchers and other wonderful tools. It's quite unbelievable and also morally unsound in that the convicted-criminals lives are more worthy than the prison guards who they attempt to murder... Criticisms aside the script generally moves along nicely enough and you're never left bored. The lines, which can be a bit hand-on-heart, are for the most part written with enough skill that you're not left laughing.The Last Castle is a decent enough affair. It's biggest flaw is the script and it's need for zealotism, but the acting helps counter-balance this to leave the film just resting above an average flick and thus granting it a grand score of 6/10. "},{"Title":"Nice acting but still a bad movie","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The acting of Gandolfini, Redford and most of the cast is quite ok, but good acting alone cant save this movie from its lame story and one-dimensional characters. Redford was really good as Brubaker, he ain't as a general. What does the movie want to tell us? Whatever american soldiers do, they stay to be the finest, pridest men in the free world? Dont get me wrong, this is in no way meant to be disrespectful to any soldiers anywhere. But the movie tries to sanctify or at least ignores any deeds the prisoners might have done and just focuses on the great general leads his army of true patriots. Sorry, but this makes me wanna puke. I cant understand why anyone would consider this movie to be the best movie of the year. If it was January 1st I might understand it. But there have been so many good movies this year. This certainly isnt one of them. "},{"Title":"Unimaginative, poorly written, poorly cast","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have joined IMDb just to say what a bad film this is, having seen this film in parts several times and not quite remembering whether it was worth watching i thought that it couldn't be that bad. Its got James Gandolfini in it, at worst I feel content afterwards. No, I was very much mistaken, James Gandolfini was completely miscast in this role. Having only seen him as a main character in The Sopranos, as Tony Soprano, I can't comment on his ability to take on other roles, but I can comment on the complete mismatch of him as the Prison Warden, regardless of the affection I have for him in The Sopranos.Redford plays a predictable two-dimensional character that barely goes beyond the comic book. However I wouldn't say his performance was poor no more than i would say the performance of Robert De Niro in Analysis This. Given a script that a shows no thought or merit based on a plot that can be written on the back of a matchbox the greatest of actors look bad.I wouldn't even say that the concept of the film is necessarily misconceived, however the execution and production is at best described as lazy. Maybe it could have been at lot more, in the end it takes itself far too seriously for the quality of characterisation and general realism, making this film just laughable. At least Jean-Claude Van Damme films know that they are never going to win an Acemedy Award and hence revel in their poorness making them somewhat fun to watch.This film just made me angry due to its childlike outlook, particularly on crime and punishment, but also the world as a whole. My advice, watch wrestling instead, at least that has no delusions of grandeur. "},{"Title":"OK - but only just!","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I quite liked it right up until the last quarter or so. It was solid. Believable. The plot was building *very* nicely, and was becoming quite engrossing. Had some really good bits too - the first call of the Sergeant Major was *impressive*. I had to watch that bit twice... Or was it thrice? (cBut the standard dropped in the last quarter or so - and in some parts it was quite unbelievable. You know - the type of action where you kind of go Nah... That's not possible and the whole movie, for me, loses the quality it had built. Worth watching on TV, but only just. "},{"Title":"Absurd","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What this movie needed, more than anything else, was Chuck Norris.  If you squint your eyes, when Redford's character rescues the man from the helicopter right before it explodes, you can almost see Eric Estrada doing it.  I've come to expect great things from Robert Redford, but this film was akin to walking into a five star restraunt and ordering a Big Mac.Wan't a decent prison uprising film?   Try Shawshank or Escape From Alcatraz.  A dencent military movie is what you want? Pearl Harbor was less melodramatic than this and Predator more realistic.  Need a great Redford film? Try Sneakers (or anything before it).  Just steer clear of this manipulative corn fest.All I ask from film makers is that a movie survives in the universe it creates.  This film laid down its own rules, then pretended they weren't there. "},{"Title":"Hollywood no-brainer C+ action/drama","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle is strictly Hollywood nonsense, albeit entertaining nonsense. The film tells the story of a renown war hero and general (Redford) who is imprisoned only to do battle with the prison's commandant (Gandolfini) because of prisoner abuses. Dumber than dumb, this unlikely story is full of improbabilities, has obvious corner-cutting, plot holes, an unsatisfying conclusion, and underdone moral issues. The best The Last Castle can hope for is a modicum of entertainment for Redford fans, soldiers, and prison flick junkies. "},{"Title":"Completely unbelievable","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film has so many major flaws that I was almost angry after the preview screenings. This is the type of movie I can never understand being made, because it shows the people who made it have no idea how to tell a story and can only recycle what they've seen in other movies. This movie is worse than bad, because it doesn't even try to be good; it's just there to fill the Hollywood product pipeline. Only the least-discriminating viewers will be able to suspend their disbelief at this.Foremost among the film's problems is that the warden, played by James Gandolfini, is never made out to be a bad guy, making Robert Redford's character's crusade to save the prisoners a pointless exercise in vanity. For a prison warden to be a believable villain, he has to be a very evil man in order to make the audience forget the prisoners are all convicted criminals. No effort is made to make the warden evil; in fact, he's a pretty likeable guy who does his job fairly well. Gandolfini acts well in the film, but with nothing in the script and misdirection on all counts, he is never menacing (and we all know Gandolfini can play menacing). Add to this a cast of nondescript, faceless prisoners who have no personality or apparent purpose other than to love Robert Redford. Their scheme to take over the prison is even less believable. Why don't the guards use their tear gas? Or real bullets until the end? What is the point of this movie?There ain't one. All this adds up to a straight-to-video junker made only to fill the product pipeline. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Oh the humanity!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Considering the talent that went into it, The Last Castle is shockingly BAD. Hackneyed, cliched, and inept in every way, this film borrows from every prison movie that's preceded it...and it does so badly.  I actually felt sorry for the actors; they had to know how silly this material is when they were filming it.  Robert Redford seems bored, while James Gandolfini, who sounds for all the world like Fat Tony from The Simpsons, is a straight comic book villain.  The hyper-patriotism and schmaltzy sentimentality make it all the more laughable, and to top it all off, the idea that Arian posterchild Redford could unite the 90% black/Hispanic prison (who are apparently such stupid darkies that they could never stand up for themselves without him) is downright insulting. "},{"Title":"great movie with a terrible ending.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The plot of the movie was great. Lt. General Irwin gets sentenced to a 10 year imprisonment due to disobeying orders and getting 8 men killed even though he is a highly decorated officer and soldiers look up to him he decides to keep to himself during his stay, but plans change when he sees a brutal killing of a young officer by the orders of the commander of the prison. Now personally Robert Redford is a remarkable actor and his portrayal of Irwin is terrific, but after 1½ hours the movie goes downhill and the ending, predictable to some yet to me it was just silly.I would rate this one 6/10. The actors did a great job but the ending just took the life out of the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film, But Then Again...","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent film, but, then again, it's Robert Redford. I've never seen a Redford film I didn't like whether he directed it or not. I think he chooses very carefully. Every film he's done has something important to say -- if it's not about the environment, it's about human nature -- and our frailties and our strengths -- how we grapple with them. He gets into the meat of his character whether it's the Sundance kid, or as General Eugene Irwin in The Last Castle. He never seems typecast. His roles have been wonderfully diverse. I believe I enjoy his films even more now that he's older. Although he'll always be an elegant and stunning man, the core of the man that was always visible in his earlier films and stage work is even more evident now that there's not the complete distraction of his younger, hauntingly handsome face in  characters, such as Hubbell Gardner or Jay Gatsby. Robert Redford is more than an actor. He's an extraordinary man -- a combo of strong convictions, virtues, virility, strength yet an interesting shyness. An elegance comparable to Cary Grant. He's quite rare and his work has brought me a great deal of pleasure over the years, but more so, he's always given me reason to think about the nature of the human condition.  "}{"Title":"As embarrassingly bad as a film can get!!!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This could be the worst 'mainstream' film I have ever seen (And I have seen 3000+ in my life).  I found myself rooting for the supposed hero to be killed... and for the supposed bad guy to win!!!  The General we are meant to root for (Robert Redford) should not be cheered or revered or praised... he should be put in the Gas chamber for his actions.  I DON'T UNDERSTAND THIS FILM AT ALL!?!?!?  The entire plot is upside-down.  AND THE LOOP HOLES!!!  Don't get me started on those, you can read about them in all the other posts and reviews about this film.  You will laugh out loud with sheer embarrassement when you see what transpires in the last half of the film.  I doubt I will ever see a film this childish and simplistic... you'd think that it would be hard to mess up a simplistic plot, but the director manages to do it here.  Also, Robert Redford is sooooo mis-cast here... isn't he 60 something by now???  When you see the physical feats he accomplishes in the film, you will be as cynical as I am.Along with Speed 2 Cruise Control... this is the worst film, that had a theatrical run, I have ever seen and probably ever will!Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"This movie was boring","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Take a look at a castle. Any castle. Now break down the key elements that make it a castle. They haven't changed in a thousand years. 1 Location. A site on high ground that commands the territory as far as the eye can see. 2 Protection. Big walls, walls strong enough to withstand a frontal attack. 3 A garrison. Men who are trained and willing to kill. 4 A flag. You tell your men you are soldiers and that's your flag. You tell them nobody takes our flag. And you raise that flag so it flies high where everyone can see it. Now you've got yourself a castle. The only difference between this castle and all the rest is that they were built to keep people out. This castle is built to keep people in. The Last Castle, starring Robert Redford, James Gandolfini, Mark Ruffalo, Steve Burton, Delroy Lindo, Paul Calderon, Samuel Ball, Jeremy Childs, Clifton Collins Jr., George W. Scott, Brian Goodman, Michael Irby. Who take the parts of Yates, Captain Peretz, General Wheeler, Dellwo, Duffy, Cutbush, Corporal Ramon Aguilar, Thumper, Beaupre and Enriquez. Actor Robert Redford playing Eugene Irwin who is sentenced to a military penitentiary after the adversary killed eight soldiers under his authority because Irwin did not take in steadfast information, Irwin must abide by Winter's rules and become just another of the men. Looking to just serve out his time and go home, Irwin tries to accept his new surroundings, but he finds that the men look to him with a respect that he wishes would go away. However as he becomes familiar with the practises within the prison, he cannot help but assume a leadership role - bringing him into direct confrontation with Winter over the brutal, overassertive methods he uses.Eugene Irwin is the romantic hero - flawed but compassionate, patriotic and brilliant. Irwin has a hero's background including surviving the Hanoi Hilton for years during the Vietnam War. To make the point he arrives at the prison in a Class A uniform with rows of ribbons. Irwin was stripped of his rank and sentenced to 10 years in a military prison. But Lieutenant General Irwin's reputation is still very much alive, to the point that the jail's commander has a certain degree of respect for him. There were many character stereotypes including Aguilar, the dim bulb; Yates, the amoral prison bookie; the fallen-from-grace doctor, the big black guy, the big white guy, the big guy of uncertain ethnic descent and the token Latino guy. Irwin's prison is run by, the villain of the story, Colonel Winters, played by James Gandolfini. Winter is a predictable bureaucrat, a fascist in nature. He has no combat experience, hubris, quirky personal interests and habits - Winter's does a serviceable job of following his erratic, uniformed predecessors. There were many character stereotypes in this story including Aguilar, the dim bulb; Yates, the amoral prison bookie; the fallen-from-grace doctor, the big black guy, the big white guy, the big guy of uncertain ethnic descent and the token Latino guy. The prison is run strictly and without regard to military law or basic inmate legal rights. Inmates are occasionally killed by turret manning snipers who apparently have never understood that it's a crime to follow criminal orders. So what does a former lieutenant general do? He organizes the appropriately racially balanced inmates with their predictable range of personalities into an army of sorts to topple the colonel.In conclusion, I would like to state that this was the most boring movie I have ever watched. I don't know why they bother making movies like this, or why someone like Robert Redford bothers to act in them. "},{"Title":"Jailhouse Crock","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle was moderately entertaining but failed, in many parts, to make basic sense. However, seeing Rod Lurie's name associated with it afterwards made sense out of the senselessness.You see, Lurie directed The Contender, a piece of ludicrously liberal drivel masquerading as a 'political thriller' that had plot holes the size of Abrams tanks. The Last Castle has similar logical inconsistencies driven by Lurie's eagerness to make us see the world from his different, challenging and ultimately fallacious view.Sparing you the plot and the debates over details of accuracy (I have no idea whereabouts an officer places his collar insignia) what I fail to buy is why an obviously intelligent and experienced officer like Irwin (Redford) believes his only strategy is to start a prison riot in order to achieve his objective of removing Winter.His tactics to achieve this, aided by some cinematic license, are impeccable and the most entertaining section of the film resides in his use of variants of classical siege weapons/tactics; catapult, trebuchet and phalanx that surprise and outwit Winter. The ironic message being that although Winter has a fascination with the weaponry of antiquity, he fails to see its true relevance in the field.This can be extruded into a Lurian philosophy - Winter is a banal bureaucrat, a fascist in nature, hell - probably a Republican; whereas Irwin is the romantic hero - flawed but compassionate, patriotic and brilliant. A truly inspiring leader of men. It's liberals taking back their country in the spirit of Jackson and Jefferson.Then what in hell does he expect to achieve with those tactics. His supposed aim is prisoner welfare and dignity, but it is unlikely that taking part in a riot is going to be in any of their individual interests even if they can present a compelling case against the conduct of the governor.In the real world it is inconceivable that the unlawful killings for which Winter is blamed would not be investigated especially with the weight of Irwin's testimony behind it. Yet that avenue is barely explored before Irwin decides to launch a suicidal mutiny against the facility via an extremely dubious and subjective analysis of the army code governing conduct.Irwin would know at this point that even if his plan succeeds, and even if Winter is dismissed, the consequences for himself will be catastrophic. Despite his exterior of calm and equanimity, the sane viewer can only see the revolt develop in terms of recklessness, not courage.The film relies on Winter 'losing it' in the final reel to provide the Manichean cancelling-out of good and evil forces that it needs to avoid being ridiculous. If, as is much more likely, Winter took satisfaction in allowing Irwin to make his typically Liberal gesture of raising the flag, then had him arrested for inciting the riot, the events of the past half hour would be rendered entirely pointless.  "},{"Title":"God Bless America! <repeat for 2 hours>","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crap.  Crappy crap crap.  Crap!Don't waste your time -- wafer thin plot (actually no plot), wafer thin acting (horrible! Now I can't watch Sopranos any more), and wafer thin dialog.This is a 2 hour crap fest you can simulate by singing god bless america for about 2 hours while poking yourself with a fork. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining film!!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was extremely entertained by this film that is essentially about restoring dignity & purpose to those that have lost it through their own misdeeds.  I found it to be quite compelling and very much recommend it. All of the actors gave very good performances, but I was particularly impressed by Steve Burton(Peretz) & Clifton Collins Jr(Aguilar).I thought the both stole the show from the lead actors and wouldn't have minded learning more about them.  Burton didn't really have that many lines, but I was quite impressed by how he could express his feelings simply through his eyes.  I would definitely be interested in seeing him in a more substantial role and think he could be a rising young star.  The same can be said for Collins Jr.  He had a small role also, but he did the most with it. I can definitely see him going places.  IMO, they both lit up the screen.Overall, I'd give this movie an A!! "},{"Title":"Type A Battlefield Goes Bust","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Be very glad if you did not plop down big bucks to see this Robert Redford-James Gandolfini flick in the theatre.  Redford plays a war-hero, former POW general who gets busted for disobeying a direct order and having a number of his men needlessly killed in a battle he should not have fought; Gandolfini plays a cruel military prison warden (colonel) who worships Redford until he overhears him make fun of his military memorabilia collection (something along the lines of 'real soldiers don't keep trinkets of war') when he is being ushered into the prison system.  From there it is a battle of Type A personalities Redford only wants to 'do his time,' until he understands just how cruel Gandolfini can be, so he begins to take control of the prisoners; and Gandolfini only wants to make Redford know who's in charge.Plenty of corny scenes in this movie -- but the capper is that Redford sees nothing wrong in destroying the prison in order to make his point to Gandolfini that the colonel should resign.  Thus, it's clear to us WHY this general, who has so little regard for human life and property, ended up behind bars in the first place!Rent only if you're real desperate for a movie.  "},{"Title":"Your time won't be wasted.","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First of all, if you are a person who cares about facts to movie - perhaps you should skip this. As other reviews here had pointed out, it seems impossible for such a siege. It is impossible for a 3 Star General to be locked with low tiers inmates. The 3 Star General could have used his connections to ..... This is a freaking movie for god sake. Just enjoy it!I will say its 2 good hours well worth watching this movie.James Gandolfini (Sorry, i'm not familiar with him) is absolutely excellent in the show. I feel like punching my fist to his Col. Winter character. I think not many actors can make me dislike a character so much. That shows how much he succeed in the role. Robert Redford does what he does. Good to see young Mark Ruffalo.The plot is nothing fantastic, but its nothing bad too. (See other reviews) I do have to highlight that there is loose ends to the movies (especially on the Daughter portion) that did not provide closure for me. That's just my personal need for closures, beside that, everything is well....Enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Gung-ho potboiler, entertaining from start to finish","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE LAST CASTLE Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSA battle of wills erupts between a martinet prison warden (James Gandolfini) and his latest inmate (Robert Redford), a former Army officer who leads an uprising against Gandolfini's brutal regime.A B-movie plot with A-class production values, toplined by one of the world's most recognizable actors, and played with grim conviction by a fine supporting cast. The escalating conflict between Redford and Gandolfini conforms to every expectation, and the final assault on the warden's stronghold is deliriously over-the-top. But the movie works like a dream, thanks to star wattage from Redford and gung-ho direction by Rod Lurie, working from David Scarpa's old-fashioned screenplay, co-written with Graham Yost. An unpretentious, entertaining potboiler, no more or less. Music by Jerry Goldsmith. "},{"Title":"Remind anyone else of Gladiator?","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fun movie to watch. The idea of a three star general going to jail is intriguing and I was excited by the multitude of singular situations that could result. How will he handle himself on the inside. Is he going to crack or prove men do not ascend the military chain of command for no reason. Redford's character with a little tweaking could have made the the film great. Unfortunately the general in the movie is something of a disappointment. Only one or two scenes show us attributes that reveal the man he is. Mainly he is a boring individual to watch with a very limited coolness factor. Sadly Redford and the writer's had trouble bringing to life a memorable character upon which the movie would hinge. We are left with mediocre entertainment. Nothing that will change your life here. As kind of a side note this movie seemed to be a Gladiator rehash. But not nearly as good. Watch the movie and see if you agree.As a final analysis using the Universal Movie Grading Accepted Scale (UMGAS) I rate this movie as having 4 out of the 10 necessary points required for Universal Acceptance as worthwhile movie. "},{"Title":"Good, but too predictable","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  MAJOR SPOILERS AHEADIt was great to see Robert Redford in a role that showed his acting ability (it's been a long time!).  However, this movie would have been much more enjoyable if (HERE COME THE SPOILERS)--it wasn't so apparent that Redford would go from a reluctant I'm just here to serve my time prisoner to I'm going to lead a revolution! hero;--we didn't know from the first moment we heard the stutter that this would be the guy who would die, creating the catalyst for the revolt;--we didn't know that (1) Gandolfini would have a chance to get Redford out of the prison, and refuse; (2) would then do anything he could to discredit him; and finally (3) offer to make peace when it was too late to stop the inevitable;--the colonel's mole hadn't changed so quickly to a good guy.  Come on, we all knew the scene in the colonel's office was staged, especially once we heard that something had been stolen.  The who-how-when was so contrived...--we didn't believe that the prisoners would win 90% of the battle with few weapons and much ingenuity.  And when the heck did they build that catapult? I know *how* they made it, but when?  Where did they hide it?--it wasn't SO very, very obvious how this was going to end.  DUH.  I could predict down to the last detail when we got to the final ten minutes...and I was right.If I hadn't seen this all before, this would have been a much more enjoyable movie.  But everything happened just the way you expected it to happen...no twists, no surprises.  If any *one* of the above scenarios had been tweaked a little, this movie would stand out from others of the same genre.  No such luck...I'll give it 7 out of 10.  Some good character development with Redford and Gandolfini, but also some storylines that were never resolved (what happened to the daughter...more accurately, why was she there in the first place???) Definitely not a movie that I'd watch again given a choice.  If you're looking for a good prison movie, watch Shawshank Redemption or Escape from Alcatraz.  This one has no surprises. "}{"Title":"Redford and Gandalfini save this prison movie from certain doom","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  They and the rest of a generally hard working cast simply cannot rescue this rather contrived and cliche ridden plot about a general doing time in a military prison.  Of course the prison is being run by a sadistic warden and must be rescued by the noble general who rouses and rallies the demoralized and hardened inmates.I could not finish this movie.  I quit when stuff was blowing up and was on Fast Forward before that. "},{"Title":"Strong performances but that's about it","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  &#145;The Last Castle' is a very predictable film with a kind of &#145;The A-Team' or &#145;MacGyver' ending. Nothing can go wrong. You think the plot has a nice twist, but it turns back to predictable in a second. It is too bad because Robert Redford as the prisoner and especially James Gandolfini as the warden are very good. It is not a normal prison, it is a prison with people who fought in combat and Robert Redford used to be (and actually still is) a very respectable general. Gandolfini is a colonel, at first very impressed by the general but when Redford says something wrong we see the real warden. The prisoners start to resist.The movie was enjoyable, but it was not good. A little silly sometimes and like I said too predictable. The ending has some nice things in it, but it is not enough to save the movie. I was not bored but I can not recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT!!!!! The Last Castle is a good movie until the end. As I was watching The Last Castle I was waiting for the unrealistic parts to come, that I've heard about. And then BAM!!!.less then thirty minutes to go in the film, and they appear. The film was going fine, until the inmates started rioting so the warden would be removed for losing control of the prison. The only reason the inmates made up a plan and carried it out, is to get the warden removed. The inmates knew that the warden could be removed if he lost control of the prison to the inmates. The inmates knew ahead of time the consequences of this plan and they weren't going to be able to escape. Who's to say the new warden wouldn't be as bad or worse then he is. The only thing that was accomplished was both guards and inmates got hurt/injured and some were probably killed. Even more unrealistic, was when the guards that were armed placed their guns down and didn't listen to the warden's order to shot the general if he starts to put the American flag on the flagpole. The warden wanted him to be stopped because he knew that the plan was to put the flag upside down, which means distress. All I have to say about that is, Bull S***. No way in hell would the guards do that. If God appeared and order them to, some of them still wouldn't. They're not going to disobey orders. I don't care who's in that prison making plans for an attack. I don't know if longer sentences are giving for a prison riot, but if so, the prisoners probably received more time on their sentences as well. So pretty much, the inmates accomplished nothing. My final grippe is; why did the warden have to kill the general? He could of shot him in the legs and that would of surly stop him. The general of course, is well respected by other inmates, the warden himself, and probably most guards. He was sent to the prison for ten years for not following orders, and because of that, eight soldiers died. He is the one that starts everything, including the planning for the riot. When everything is said and done people died, especially the general, nobody escaped, the warden was taking away in handcuffs, and everybody saluted the flag, which wasn't placed upside down. I give The Last Castle * * out of 4 stars & a 4/10.                        "},{"Title":"Not too realistic, but pretty good","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford's character seems unhuman- he's just too perfect.  James Gandolfini's character shines, and you just love to hate him.  He's the envious worm that always tried to sabatoge you in school.  The movie is a typical Hollywood drama crowd pleaser, but is pretty good. B-, 7/10 "},{"Title":"an over-the-top patriotic prison movie","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film really tries to pull you in with its overly patriotic theme. It just makes the movie even more cheesy. It is decent, but more of a Bruce Willis Die Hard movie than a Robert Redford film.  Many things about the plot are absurd.  Like a 3 star general being sentenced to 10 years for what he did.  And the prisoners hiding weapons and even how Redford is able to motivate these morally bad prisoners into a sort of army, who can come together and overtake the prison.  Gandolfini does a good job as the warden, but his character should have been more evil if we are to root for Redford to succeed in a uprising.FINAL VERDICT  Even thought the plot is unbelievable at times, it is not that bad.  If you like ridiculous action movies, this one is OK, if you can sit though the 2 hour running time. "},{"Title":"interesting story that grows tiresome","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Disappointingly mild clash of wills story that would have benefited from a heavy dose of intensity. Held responsible and eventually court-martialed for an Army operation that went awry, highly decorated Lieutenant General Eugene Irwin (Redford) is sent to a harsh military prison under the control of a by the book colonel/warden (Gandolfini). Having matched wits with the warden and discovered that he's a tyrannical sadist, Irwin rallies the prison's long-suffering inmates to try and lead a revolt. Military thriller/prison drama is easy to watch, but the story has no momentum and wears thin after a while. Cast is good, but the two leads fail to generate any sparks or tension when they square off. **½ "},{"Title":"Response to Question","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Someone asked on archived message board about location of this movie and Green Mile. Principle location for both movies was the old Tennessee State Prison in Nashville.By the way, as an old staff member at Leavenworth, I can tell you that the Castle has a much more realistic atmospheric. "},{"Title":"Robert Redford past his peak","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle was a movie that was not very well thought out.  The plot was sketchy and the acting mediocre.  The most unbelievable part was the mass explosions and homemade weapons at the end.  i don't know how in a maximum security prison they could have gotten all the materials for their homemade rocket launchers, there bombs and grappling hooks.  the acting was actually pretty good but the movie in general just had an unbelievable plot. "},{"Title":"good adventure action film","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very good adventure and action film.  The special effects are intriguing.  The agony of the men is felt by the audience, and one leaves the theater with an exhausted feeling simply from watching all of the heavy duty work that the performers had to do.  I gave it an 8. "},{"Title":"Morally schizophrenic","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The acting in this movie was so good that I almost want to recommend it based on that alone. Unfortunately, the plot suffers from a sort of moral schizophrenia. The director manages to tapdance around the fact that the good guys perpetrate more injustices in a day than the bad guys have in a lifetime. While technically the good guys win, one leaves the theater realizing that everyone would have been better off if they hadn?t. Its worth seeing just to try and puzzle over what message the screenwriter was actually trying to get across.  "}{"Title":"A disciplinary prison for army officers and soldiers","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is not new, it is about unfair justice in a prison, but this time of officers and soldiers punished for misbehavior during their assignments. A tough Colonel Winter (Gandolfini) is challenged by a General Irwing sitting in prison (Redford)due to the bad treatment given to the prisoners by the Colonel. The end is an organized revolt against the rulers of the prison, where Irwing is killed by Winter without any justification. The film is useful to raise patriot sentiments among the soldiers and the people in general. Good acting of Redford (as usual) and of Gandolfini.       "},{"Title":"Very good film with action and thought","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle is one of Robert Redford performance's ever. Rod Lurie has made an action film about standing up for what you believe in. James Gandolini plays the villain role very well and Mark Ruffalo & Delroy Lindo play very good in supporting roles. "},{"Title":"Good one.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit, this is the bets Redford movies I have seen in a while.  I really liked this one.  I liked Redford's character of Irwin.  The way he slowly realizes that he has to take the lead an then takes it to give the other prisoners some hope and unity is very good.  The jealousy of Gandolfini's character, Winter is also portrayed very good.  He played it well.  The plot is strong and solid, and plays out well in the end.  It also makes for some very interesting finale.  Over all, very good, (8 out of 10). "},{"Title":"An Outstanding Performance by Redford (as usual)","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just saw The Last Castle, and I have only a few words to say Robert Redford does an OUTSTANDING performance, as usual, rent The Last Castle you'll enjoy it better than The Green Mile (which was a great movie by the way). "},{"Title":"Exciting Military Prison Drama!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   The Last Castle is an excellent and riveting military prison drama. It is the story of the conflict and competition between two strong personalities. Robert Redford stars as General Eugene Irwin, a three star general, who has been imprisoned in The Castle run by Colonel Winter (James Gandolfini) after pleading guilty to disobeying an Executive Order. Winter is a career officer who has never quite won respect as a leader and sees an opportunity to impress his superiors by breaking Irwin. Irwin, on the other hand is held in awe by the other inmates and soon gains their confidence. As a protest to Winter's brutal tactics, he organizes the men in a revolt against the prison. Redford is excellent as the the officer who has accepted his fate but has not forgotten his leadership abilities. Gandolfini is equally as good as the prison warden who tries to out best the Redford character and prove that he is indeed the leader he thinks he is. Also notable in the cast are Mark Ruffalo as Yates, who has come to care only for himself, Delroy Lindo as Winter's superior General Wheeler, who tries to convince Irwin to leave the prison and Steve Burton as Captain Peretz, Winters assistant. There are little gaps of credibility that Director Rod Lurie probably sacrificed for the sake of time, such as how Irwin organizes and trains the inmates and how and where they get the materials for their weapons without being detected. But, The Last Castle is all in all an excellent movie even though it's plot is highly improbable.   "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie really though me off.  I thought it was going to be a war picture.  It was and it wasn't.  If you haven't seen this film, I don't want to give anything away becuase I thought it was very surprising at times.  I thought it was great that they put an old-time classic actor like Robert Redford in this movie.  He did a wonderful job and the camera work reminded me of Saving Private Ryan.  I thought this film did a wonderful job with action and the twists and turns in this movie are pretty impressive.  Watch this movie.     "},{"Title":"Surprisingly patriotic....","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard the premise of this movie, I thought it would be hard to cheer for the bad guys taking over a prison and escaping. But after viewing, I realized this wasn't the end goal. They never intended to escape, or to kill the prison officials. This changed the whole mood of the film.And even though I did somewhat guess the ending, it was still a moving moment that left me laying awake in bed that night thinking of the implications, and motivations of the main characters, especially the part played by Redford. (Boy, that guy can act.)Patriotic? Absolutely. Whether bound or free, it's great to be an American.8/10 *'s "},{"Title":"Brubaker 2!! (SPOILERS!)","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    ...the truth is, Hollywood doesn't know how to make movies about the US Military anymore...afraid of being called pinko Un-Americans (by draft dodgers like Rush Limbaugh), the execs crank out films where the Army good guy is pure as snow, the bad guy the Devil's brother (see the recent Mel Gibson Viet war flick for proof)...beside this new defect, the guys who manufactured The Last Castle ran up against the fact that every possible configuration for a prison camp movie has already been made, so no new ground can be crossed...despite this, I like the picture, namely because of the computer enhanced recomposition shots where one guy will be standing out of focal range, yet be sharp, and the area between the guys talking will be fuzzy (check out the scene where Gandolfini is taking to the bookie while looking at him in a mirror)...Personally I think this is Redford's attempt at remaking Brubaker in a military mold, on the level of an Army instruction manual...Interestingly enough I saw this the same weekend I rented that Soviet film Repentance...the weird thing is both films feature bad guys who are fat, wear glasses, and smirk when things go wrong...is this also a tribute to that film?  "},{"Title":"brilliant, worth watching over and over","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the first time i saw this film in the cinema i loved it. i like prison films. we've seen films like this before but who cares? it is emotional, thrilling, and has a terrific ending. so i decided to watch it again. . . and when it comes out on dvd to buy i'll be sure to get it. the acting is great, the story line is great and it surely deserves a first class salute.8/10 "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i don t know what s wrong with all the idiots panning this movie.  i just watched it in glorious widescreen dts and i thought it was excellent.  the way the movie built up to the climax was great.  redford was great. gandolfini was great. the supporting cast was great.i was cheering and i watched it by myself.  if you couldn t enjoy this movie there is something wrong with you.  yes it was the age old plot about the abused prisoners fighting against the sadistic warden..but so what.the mood, the sound, the acting, the subtle twists, the tension and drama were perfect.i give it a ten point o!! "}{"Title":"this is basically a harmless movie","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, i am not sure about this one. It is entertaining. However it requires a certain amount of faith. First of all, the catapult they build is absolutely ridiculous. Second, it was very predictable, so don't try to think to much during this movie. The ending i thought was very unsatisfying. It didn't make much sense the way it turned out. I think the worst part about this movie is that it shows how Hollywood has run out of all original ideas. There is not one iota of originality in the whole movie. It reeks of The Shawshank Redemption, Cool Hand Luke, John Steinbeck's book In Dubious Battle, and the ending is somewhat reminiscent of Gladiator. I enjoyed this movie as a mindless action flick, but as nothing more. Hollywood is truly starting to scrape the bottom of the barrel when a movie like this gets made. But what the hell, this is a fun movie. Why not see it? It is a good way to kill two hours and 13 minutes. I was going to give it six out of ten stars but i decided to give it five just out of spite.5/10  "},{"Title":"How did no one else notice this?","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I got this move as a free rental, which is a good start to it. Robert Redford and James G. are so, so good in this (and what about James's sidekick, I thought that was brilliantly underplayed), but the story...oh...it's so bad. At one point the inmates at a marine prison manage to build and hide...a siege engine, whose only point is to hurl pet rocks at James Gandalfini. Now, I can see hiding a shiv, or a sharp tooth brush, but a catapult? What were they thinking? A side note to our Canadian friends, I apologize for a movie where we Americans take pride in our country. I regret, sincerely any honor, dignity, or bravery that was displayed. I am made indescribably weepy by any movies that show the US as good, healthy or has a sense of national pride about it. From this point forward I pledge to see only Canadian movies...that suck.  "},{"Title":"Not bad.....","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot believe the negative reviews that I am reading. What ever happened to just enjoying yourself and escaping for two (2) hours? People have complained about this movie being unrealistic (well, you know what....it's a movie). It was good to see Robert Redford act instead of being a director. I'm afraid his directorial talents are exactly box office smashes but they are his choices. Personally I don't like them....but as an actor, he has honed his craft well. It was also good to see Tony Soprano in a different setting. All I have to say is just sit back and enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"Mutiny on the Rockpile","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One day, some years ago, while on vacation in the Bahamas, there was a particularly bad storm, which forced me to remain in my hotel room. There was a movie on one of the few channels available there at the time. It was called &#145;The Hill' and starred Sean Connery, as a soldier at a British Army disciplinary camp, with a sadistic commandant who forced the prisoners to run up and down a dirt mound in the middle of the camp. After about 45 minutes of this film, I called a cab, braved the storm, and went to a casino.Well this plot, (repeated in a different form in the Last Castle), is so over-used, that I can't imagine anyone wishing to use it again. It's so obvious and predictable, that it will leave you feeling like a clairvoyant, and you'll figure out the ending long before it happens.The only good thing that can be said about this version of &#145;The Hill',  is that Robert Redford, shines and demonstrates what excellent and top notch performing is. Redford climbs obstacle after terrible production obstacle, so much so, that he actual becomes more believable as the &#145;leader' of the convicts.I'd suggest that, unless you're wild about Redford, to wait until it becomes a &#145;half-price' offering at your rental store.Your &#145;board' reviewer FM     "},{"Title":"Decent enough","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Obviously, this movie was ok. I can sit through it twice and still like it. Its a regular, patriotic action movie. A military prisons inmates takes over, killing guards. Are we supposed to think the inmates lives are more important than the gaurds. Sure the gaurds seem pretty mean, but they are talking about convicted criminals. I am pretty sure alot of people were taking the side of the criminals, as was I, and they made the criminals out to be a bunch of nice, sweet, mistreated people. Not at all. They killed people, smuggled drugs, snitched. Not at all nice. The end flag rasing while dieing scene is certainly too cliche for my liking. Highly predictable and too sentimental on the inmates part. Made the prisoner out to be what the arent. It was ok, but not at all proabable. "},{"Title":"a flag-raiser","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Because of some fine acting, combinations of actors, original set and production values, the  Last Castle captured me to the last flag-waving, tear-jerking minute. The face-off between the vindictive, whiny boy turned prison boss, and the stoical, combat hardened general was worth the cost--of money and for withstanding the pervasive jingoism. It was a fresh look at prisons--military prison in fact. Some things are done differently from civilian prisons. The Colonel takes advatage of his wider powers and torments the man he envies, loves, hates (just like he did his Daddy, no doubt.) That the general (R. Redford in his coolest, most noble persona) would proceed to rise in the non-ranks in non-uniform and receive a multitude of non-salutes was inevitable. He's just so tough and cool (like his rougher, sassier, cooler predecessor Luke.) Well OF COURSE there's a final conflict between evil and good, justice and non-justice, and the good general solidifies the worst element of the services into an ensemble for good; fashions a well-tuned fighting unit. And he has a strategy. I loved that totally unbelievable strategy--the catapults, flaming balls, shields and other middle ages paraphanalia because it was, after all, a castle. Some joker, that general. He gave men back their self-respect and dignity, but, even as he lay dying, raising his one true-love, the U.S. flag, he failed to save himself. And he never got to go home and see, Whatshernam, his daughter. Or whatshername, his granddaughter. owver, sempre fi! The greater good was (not) served. In this instance I  came close to reversing my usual it's the treatment not the subject stance. Man, I have trouble with triteness, and I must repeat to filmakers everywhere avoid cliches like the plague. 5 for the face-off between two great actors. jaime. "},{"Title":"One of the few films of 2001 with a decent storyline ...","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In addition to The Shawshank redemption and The green mile, Hollywood brings you another 'prison'-movie with many similarities yet one important adjustment.  Many things are often the same though.  To give you an idea what life is like in prison, the film will always include many conflicting characters heavily disagreeing with the system that put them away.  As a result of that, there's usually a little sense of hope among the prisoners.The one thing that makes The last castle different from other 'prison'-movies, is the fact that the main character *is* truly guilty and knows this too.  In this case, it's Robert Redford who's done a crime and has to go to prison for that.  He's not been set up by anyone else like so much happens.  Also, the main character in this film is given lots of respect by both the warden and other prisoners which leads automatically to a somewhat different kind of atmosphere.  These are the two elements that make The last castle an above-average'-film.The rest is good too, but we've all seen it before.  Still, with actors such as Robert Redford (who's finally made a come-back to the big screen), James Gandolfini and Delroy Lindo, The last castle is one of the better films of 2001. "},{"Title":"great fun","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A truly entertaining prison-revolt film with good performances by Redford, Lindo, and Gandolfini. Some detractors point to Redford's character being a hero even when he was responsible for more deaths than Gandolfini's evil warden character. I must retort that there is evidence of anybody being permanently dead during the riot. Maybe the guards used non-lethal ammo. "},{"Title":"The last castle is the ultimate classic","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I just have to say I have no problem with all those people who are always telling me that as a cinephile I have to develop certain criteria and become more selective as what do I see. In small words, that I must become an as***le snob that never likes anything. Well, sorry to disappoint all those people, that will never happen. And, that allows me to always like this kind of movie.In the tradition, of the Shawshank Redemption or The Green Mile, which are of course a point of reference and comparison for this film, the movie is about a well known General who fell into disgrace after his last duty and now he has to pay the consequences in a prison. This man, actually acted bad, he knows it, and he's willing to do his time, but he also is still aware that the conditions within this prison (or castle) must be changed... and then, the fun begins.This film is excellent, and has everything a great instant classic must have, starting with a very cool hero as General Irwin played greatly by Robert Redford, and a very gut-wrenching bad guy superbly played by James Gandolfini. Moreover, it has drama, suspense, action (ohh yeah!!!), and thank god it doesn't have romance since the film is about men locked up in jail. By the end of the movie I felt like saluting the film while the end credits went by.There's been a lot of competition between several films recently, so it's no wonder why this film didn't do greatly at the box office, but take me a word on this one, if you are going to spend 4-7 dollars, that will become 8-14 by taking your girlfriend, this one is worth it.  "},{"Title":"Military prisoners do battle against a crazy commandant. Well staged and well acted. 3 and a half Flys","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's no longer surprising where American movies go to get their bad guys. These days when you can't really just mow down New York Italians dressed as Indians so Hollywood often looks to their own Government. In The Last Castle the government is in the guise of the commandant of a military prison.	In The Last Castle James Gandolfini (The Sopranos, The Mexican) delivers the goods creating Colonel Winter, a sadistic, thin lipped, slippery skinned, never grew up as the baddie, although I thought he might have cheated a little, modelling the character on the Australian Treasurer.	The good guys are the prisoners, the criminals, in keeping with tried and true big business principals. The setting is an old castle which has been turned into a finishing school for the less compliant members of the U.S. military.	Robert Redford plays General Irwin who went against orders. This time this resulted in eight under his command getting killed. But the hoi polloi know his true worth because he's revered by his captors and the prisoners. As is said in the film, `They should have given him a medal instead of sending him to prison.' Now that would have saved a lot of trouble for Colonel Winter.	Winter initially admires Irwin but then hears Irwin belittling Winter because Winter hadn't actually gone into battle. It's true you know. you're no real soldier (or man) you know until you've actually spilt someone else's blood. And of course the use of firearms is almost mandatory.	So the war in the prison is on. It all comes down in the end as to whether the American Flag is going to be raised upside down, the distress signal. I'll leave it up to you to decide whether distress is an appropriate response in the U.S. today.	The Last Castle works well enough within the above guidelines, is reasonably engaging and not overly politically perverse. After all we can't have prisons being badly run by lunatics, and there's nothing better than a well orchestrated rebellion against a despot.3 And A Half Flys Out Of Five  "}{"Title":"good acting but some plot problems","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What can you say about Robert Redford? He's been in a lot of movies and has dabbled in some directing too. I've always liked him as an actor and although the movies he's directed don't always appeal to the masses, they've always appealed to me. They have a beautiful cinematic feel and the storylines are excellent but I'm digressing here. The Last Castle was not directed by Redford but he was the primary character and to make things interesting, he's playing opposite `Mr. Soprano' himself, James Gandolfini. Gandolfini has made a living being a bad character on the popular TV series and he gets to do it again in this movie.The Last Castle is about a well-decorated General (Robert Redford) being convicted for a war crime and sent to a military prison. Colonel Winter (James Gandolfini) is the warden overseeing the prison and is a no nonsense type man. Although General Irwin is convicted of a war crime, he's no less respected and the moment it is made known to Winter that this great war hero is coming to his prison, Winter quickly gets his establishment `cleaned up' and his personal war memorabilia collection polished up to impress this man. Things don't quite turn out the way Winter hopes as General Irwin alludes to the Colonel's collection as a sign of a soldier never having seen combat. This comment basically sets up the remainder of the movie as the two battle wills and wits with ultimately one left standing.The interesting thing about this movie is that there really isn't a `bad' character in it. Gandolfini has refined the art of playing a character that does bad things occasionally but still being likable and he carries that into this movie. Although some of the things his character does can be out right despicable, you find yourself still occasionally rooting for him or at the very least sympathizing with him. Redford's character is likable throughout and he has always had a way of exuding a quiet strength and charm that is difficult to ignore. But this movie seemed to show what a talent Gandolfini is.As much as I liked the performances of the main actors, there were some flaws with this movie&#133;namely some of the plot events. The stunts were interesting but a bit on the ridiculous side and in the context of the characters and the personalities they exude, I'd have a hard time believing that Gandolfini's character would allow a mutiny to occur in his prison. There's one scene where the prisoners were able to build a catapult out of common building materials and essentially use it to bring down the guard towers. Now as interesting a concept as this is, it does sound rather ridiculous and all the more so on the screen. Overall, I liked the movie but there are some plot events that you have to take with a grain of salt. Suspend reality for a bit and you'll enjoy the movie.   "},{"Title":"A Good Movie, but not great","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, it was worth the money I spent on admission.   There were some great moments that a good musical score would have made even better, but the movie did carry itself well It took me some time to realize this, but Robert Redford is not a great actor.  This, and the improbability of the ending scenes is what kept it from being great.   This is not to suggest, however, that you should avoid this movie, it is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Cliches OK","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Start with prison and the military two of my least-favorite subjects.Add Rod Lurie the heavy-handed director of last year's preachycritics' darling, The Contender. Mix those three elements together,along with two actors predictably cast in opposing roles (JamesGandolfini, bad; Robert Redford, good) and what have you got?A very good movie, actually. I was so pleasantly surprised by TheLast Castle, I'll gladly watch it again. Redford (The Horse Whisperer) portrays three-star General Irwin,a renowned army tactician who has been court-martialed, strippedof his rank, and sentenced to a maximum security military prisonrun with unwavering cruelty by its warden, Colonel Winter (JamesGandolfini, The Mexican). At first Winter is in awe of the legendaryGeneral Irwin, but that respect melts into white-hot hostility as Irwinboldly confronts the warden on his archaic ways. Theirconfrontation escalates into war when the general organizes hisfellow inmates into an army. The progression of how this all comes about is very well done,and Redford and Gandolfini, though perhaps typecast, are nothingshort of fantastic in their roles. Don't be surprised if you hear bothof their names announced come Oscar-time. The supporting castis superb as well from Winter's right-hand man (Steve Burton,shucking his pretty-boy soap opera persona) to Mark Rufallo as anembittered drug-running helicopter pilot. I'm not saying this movie isn't cliched -- in fact, it's riddled withthem Every single downtrodden prisoner is a sympatheticcharacter. There's the retarded man-boy who is severely abused.There's the guy who seems bad but turns out good. The helicopterpilot's skills come in handy. And more. But it doesn't really matter --this movie is spirited and slightly patriotic, which is the perfect elixirfor the American public in these troubled times. Not overly so, but itwill make you feel good at the end and there's nothing wrong withthat. "},{"Title":"fighting for a different kind of freedom","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I appreciate what The Last Castle leaves unsaid more than what it does say. There aren't those lines which seem spoken just to explain things, just in case the audience isn't following. The ending, for instance, there are many layers there and I kept waiting, expecting one of the inmates to turn to another and explain why the soldiers make the choice that they do. This line, or anything like it, is never spoken. Director Rod Lurie understands visual storytelling. A silent version of Last Castle would get across the same story with little difference. Not that this isn't a great script. I don't remember one bad line.This is also an unconventional take on prison drama because no one's trying to escape. The inmates are all criminals and know it. This brings so much nobility to the characters; this acknowledgment that they have yet to pay their debts to society. But they want to pay this debt as men, not animals. It's a different kind of freedom that they're fighting for. `Last Castle' is about a coup. Colonel Winter is the tyrant that has to be overthrown. Irwin pegs Colonel Winter on never having stepped foot on a battlefield. By rising up against him, Irwin's giving Winter a chance to prove himself and proves which one of them is truly a disgrace to the armed forces.        Lurie himself described this film in EW as being `deeply in love with the military' and it is. It's patriotic film that fits the times. I wouldn't be surprised to hear that footage was added to that scene near the end where many stop and salute the flag. Even so, this film stands as a reminder that patriotism was alive even before Sept. 11. Grade B    "},{"Title":"The performances are great!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The reason to go see THE LAST CASTLE is to see the performances. Robert Redford is doing his best work in years as a General sentenced to 10 years in military prison and leading an uprising against it's sadistic warden. As the warden, James Gandolfini is amazing. He's miles away from his character on THE SOPRANOS. He's a petty, little man who doesn't value human life as much as he values order. Mark Ruffalo also does a wonderful job as the little snake within the prison population. It's hard to get a read on him until the very end. The bottom line is, THE LAST CASTLE is predictable movie making. There's is nothing really new here, but it's still tremendously entertaining. Director Rod Lurie (THE CONTENDER) has made a good prison movie, with a terrific ending action sequence that is really a showcase for the actors. Gandolfini in particular deserves an Oscar nomination. "},{"Title":"Good, compelling melodrama.  Nice comeback for Redford.","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was impressed by this movie.  First of all, expect topnotch performances by the lead and supporting performers.  Robert Redford hasn't acted in a movie, since The Horse Whisperer and I was very impressed by his comeback.  He pulls off the role with the greatest ease.  James Gandolfini was great, too.  Though he played the rat, he wasn't over-the-top, and was creepy in a way that's not in-your-face.  I'm sure Gandolfini felt he was typecast.  Aside from his role as gangster Tony Soprano on The Sopranos, he also played a gangster in The Mexican and basically played the same role in the few other films he's done.  So he dropped his Italian-American New Jersey accent and took on the role of an earnest, but corrupt and egotistical prison warden.  Gandolfini is truly a fine, underrated actor and his role in this movie is proof.  I also have to give it up for Mark Ruffalo, who plays the prison bookie.  I've never seen him in other movies--at least I don't recall--and I think he's a good actor who has the tendency to become a household name with further film roles.The plot is predictable and expectedly melodramatic, but the characters are sharp and likeable.  So you feel for these people as the film goes along, and that's the tool in engaging the audience.  In fact, I was in tears at the end.  Just thinking back to the ending, I'm getting all teary-eyed.  I guess I sort of saw it coming, but when you create characters that the audience builds a good attachment to, that's a key in manipulating their emotions.  And that's what happened, in my case.  I was cheering for the prisoners at the climax.  How often do you feel sympathy for characters in prison, who are guilty of their crimes?  Even the Redford character felt guilty of his actions, which I also found interesting. The Last Castle is nothing deep or philosophical.  It contains elements of prison dramas of the past, but never wears out the cliches.  It stands on its own two feet, and proves to be a good, compelling piece of cinema.  Now I'm looking forward to Redford's next film Spy Game with Brad Pitt. My score  7 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film has Robert Redford as a famous military general who has wound up being court martialed and sent to prison. Once in prison he winds up leading a revolt against the evil warden (James Gandolfini). Good performances and a solid script keep you involved. Definitely a good effort that has a very patriotic theme, despite the subject matter. GRADE A- "},{"Title":"The leadership game","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very good action drama movie that clearly illustrates how some people have the natural ability to command or lead a large number of men.A good situation is created here so the audience can get a good feel for how military structures and command tactics form naturally around these natural born warriors.Very educational and entertaining movie that takes the prison drama genre and gives this unique flavor to it.Redford shows he is still an alpha male despite his age as he gives his best movie effort since JEREMIAH JOHNSON.The movie moves along very well and the unlikely plots do not destroy the story's objectives.Some Hollywood compromise here and there regarding the action but still the movie does not water down too much.This movie should bring tears to a true warrior at heart and to those who are not into military stories,they will still feel proud for the human spirit of self sacrifice and unyielding determination we need in ourselves for self preservation.Only for people who are interested in warrior psyche......  "},{"Title":"A Remake of The Longest yard... Without the Football Game.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok...James Gandolfini can now list himself among such great actorsas Eddie Albert, Donald Sutherland, Bob Gunton, PatrickMcGoohan and Gary Oldman.  They have all played  one-dimensional mentally unstable, evil prison wardens.If one were to judge the character of prison Wardens by Hollywoodmovies alone, they would think that they are all feeble-mindedsadistic control freaks, who unfairly always abuse their poweragainst wrongfully victimized inmates.As far as this movie goes, the plot actually very closely follows theplot of the Burt Reynolds classic, as both lead characters arefamous prisoners who both just want to do their time, findthemselves unfortunately (and through no fault of their own) as thetargets of the Warden.  For whatever reason, the Warden is moreinterested in seeing different factions of the prison population allfight each other, and wants to crush any attempt at the prisonerstrying to obtain some level of cooperation and self-respect.Hence, our hero, Robert Redford, is forced to play in a footballgame against the Guards, so he can help the prisoners get theirself-respect.... ooopps... Wrong Movie...  *ahem*.  I meant to say, our hero, Robert Redford is forced to take over theprison... so he can help the prisoners get their self respect.Don't get me wrong... the movie is well-made, and the actors do agood job, but this story has been done so many times, and is soridiculous, I had to wonder why it was even made.I dont want to ruin the movie, but I offer a challenge to anyone whohas seen both The Last Castle and The Longest Yard, tocompare the final scenes from both movies, where both BurtReynolds and Robert Redford walk away from the Warden, and tellme if the comparisons are not nearly identical. "},{"Title":"We'll be seeing more of film newcomer, Steve Burton.","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie focuses on the pride of men.  A prison of soldiers, stripped of their rank and honor, find pride again in the leadership of one man, General Irwin, played with conviction by Robert Redford.  Together, they band together to take control of The Castle.  I loved how Irwin was reluctant at first to lead the men.  He wanted nothing more tan to serve his time and go home, but while you can take rank and title away, you can never take away the heart of a solier.James Gandolfini played Winters, the man in charge of the prison, who, while not corrupt, does not run the prison with the best judgement.  At his side is Captian Peretz, portrayed by film newcomer, Steve Burton.  Together, they try to stop Irwin from leading a prisoner uprising.While Redford and Gandolfini were excellent in their roles, Steve Burton stole the show, in my opinion.  When Gandolfini's Winters succumbed to his own inadequacies, Peretz remained in control.  The guards followed his command when their leader surrendered his flag.I, for one, could not keep my eyes off of Captian Peretz.  For a relatively small role, Steve Burton sure made the most of it.  There were not many lines, beyond, yes sir and no sir, but he could convey volumes with just a squint of his beautiful blue eyes or a simple gesture.I am guessing that this will not be the last we see of Steve Burton.  That man had full-fledged movie star written all over him. "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was never a fan of Rod Lurie as a reviewer, but as a writer, he's good. The Contender was really well written, and although this movie isn't up to that standard, it's still a very watchable film, mostly because of the excellent cast. Redford and Gandolfi are great and Delroy Lindo is good to as always.  There is some minor cheese and I would have liked to have seen the warden character developed a little more. There was also some scenes very similar to other prison movies like Shawshank Redemption, Cool Hand Luke and even Redford's own Brubaker. But it's still worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Somewhat derivative, but it grew on me and I am still thinking about it...","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gandolfini's nasal fastidious insecure warden ain't Tony.  He takes a difficult unappealing character and provides a complex dark mirror to Redford's mutedweary warrior.  Redford's looks appropriately aged and crufty as he quietlybuilds a resistance to Gandolfini's repressive regime.  Ruffalo delivers a nuanced character that walks a fragile line between ambivalence and commitment. It all seems somehow relevant to these times.  It stayed with my wife and I into the night as we peeled back the layers. "},{"Title":"Best studio action film in awhile","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle was a film which I truly enjoyed from start to finish. The plot and characters are quite cliched at times, but none of this matters too much because this film was just done exceptionally well.  Redford is excellent in an understated kind of way and Gandolfini is hardly recognizable in his transformation to non-goomba(Although one of my complaints about the movie is the excessive micing of his breathing, which made me feel as if I was in his nasal cavity at times.  No one deserves this.  It's particularly bad when he's eating a sandwich).  However, the other elements of the Last Castle more than make up for this inconvenience. The actor portraying Yates relies on the same facial expressions too much early in the film it seems, but goes on to deliver what is possibly the movie line of the year later on.  Overall his performance improves as the film progresses.  The film does an excellent job of almost making the audience feel like an inmate in the military prison.  Cliches abound, but overall this was a very enjoyable movie.  Hell, the last action sequence warrants an above average rating by itself.  I'll give this one an 8. "},{"Title":"A battle between kings.","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A superb film that really caught me off guard. It's a battle between two 'kings', as it were. As the warden of the military prison known as The Castle, Colonel Winter (James Gandolfini) is your standard malicious tyrant who runs his prison with an iron fist and murders anyone who crosses his past. Eugene Irwin (Robert Redford) is a decorated war hero who is put in The Castle for disobeying orders and consequentially losing eight men. He sees the mistreatment happening the prison and uses his high level of respect with all of the other prisoners to build an army to overcome Winter and force him to resign. The film is an epic battle between two men who refuse to let go of their pride. It has a superb message about what it means to have power and the responsibility of how you use such power that I really loved. The star of the film for me was Mark Ruffalo as Yates, a rebellious prisoner who is the only person that doesn't fall in line with Irwin's war and instead stays in the back for the most part. He has a huge struggle with his conscience when Winter asks him to be his snitch. He's one of the best characters I've seen in quite a while and Ruffalo delivers a subtly intense performance that was really worthy of critical recognition but didn't receive any. A truly great film. "},{"Title":"Unity is powerful, even if it's just for a flag.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Thematically the film is offering nothing new to a genre that is always in need of a big boost, and certainly there are problems in the film that bog it down to stop it rising as high as the flag that becomes so crucial to the plot, but there is still enough here to make it an above average entry into the incarceration genre.Robert Redford is disgraced General Eugene Irwin who is sent to a maximum security military prison for ten years, here he comes up against Warden Colonel Winter who is the kind of Colonel who has never seen real war, he reads it in books and collects war time memorabilia like toys. Winter quickly tries to assert his dominance over Irwin by being evermore ruthless in punishments to anyone who looks up to Irwin. The battle of wills ensues and we are taken to the inevitable uprising as Irwin makes the prisoners proud soldiers again, they unite to depose the commander of the stockade as it were. The final third of the film is well worth the wait, the uprising is thrilling enough, which includes some fine set pieces, and the ending doesn't pander to sickly formula, but other issues weigh the film down. In a film calling for a sadistic Warden you need the actor playing him to be villain supreme, sadly James Gandolfini doesn't cut it, he's more prat villain than nasty villain, whilst his loyal force enforcers are equally none menacing. My other major gripe is having at your disposal a talent like Delroy Lindo and criminally under using him, he lights up the film for the brief screen time he gets. All the others fare OK, nothing out of the ordinary, but nothing that harms the film, Redford fits the part of the ageing and grizzled General, and Mark Ruffalo hints at the great actor he was to become in an integral role in the unfolding plot line, so all in all it's above average and enjoyable fare, 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Exciting, honor, pride, teamwork also","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is excellent from the moment you start watching it. It takes place in a military prison. The prisoners have a low self esteem. Due to the fact the warden it a killer. The main character sees what's going on in the prison and give the men hope & pride. Robert Redford comes in with honor the men are willing to follow. This is what good movies are built on. Proud, Honorable and Teamwork! This is how movies put together with the good, bad and ugly. What else could you do but stand up and yell for the team. This movie takes you back to the days when you thought of morals and how important they are. Watch it and feel how good it is to me part of the American service. We are proud to be Americans. What the men bring back to the prison is the American standards. This makes you proud to be an American. "},{"Title":"One of the best prison movies","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you didn't like Tony Soprano as a person, you definitely will not like James Gandolfini's character in The Last Castle, Col. Winter. Gandolfini just has a knack for playing a slimeball. Robert Redford delivers an excellent performance as Liuetenant General Eugene Irwin, a highly decorated general that has been convicted of a military crime. The entire movie is set inside a military prison in which a military style struggle develops between Colonel Winter and Lt. Gen. Irwin. The movie made for good drama and Redford and Gandolfini are good enough actors to properly deliver the script. I don't know how accurate of a depiction of military prison life this movie was, but it certainly was entertaining. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i thought this film was really good not what i expected at all.i thought it was going to be really boring.i reckon its a good one to watch. there was nothing on TV apart from this film so i thought id watch it its one of those films that you have to see what happens in the end.the acting was great big names old ones always the best aren't they id gladly watch it again what more can i say its a must to watch well i thought it was anyway!!! (1000 words max to write they r having a laugh writing 10 lines is hard enough !!!!!!) THE FILM WAS GREAT i don't know what else to say the acting was great the plot was great acted by great actors they're wasn't very many stunts/special effects but what there was was good "},{"Title":"A Prison Movie With A Military Angle","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What differentiates The Last Castle from the numerous prison movies that circulate around, is the fact that here we are not dealing with an ordinary penitentiary The story takes place in a castle, which serves as a military prison. Col. Winter (Gandolfini) is the castle's king, and in fact his behavior is not far from the above euphemism; he treats the inmates with brute authority, without any respect for them, as if they were his serfs. Things change dramatically however, when a new prisoner enters the gates of the castle Lt. Gen. Irwin (Redford), a revered war hero, is sentenced to 10 years for disobeying orders which led to several deaths of his men. Although Winter is an admirer of Irwin, and he initially plans to treat him with the appropriate respect, he soon starts to detest him as he realizes that Irwin is not willing to accept Winter's cruel ways with the other inmates. As Irwin gradually inspires his fellow prisoners, Winter becomes his lethal enemy, and the question is who will ultimately prevail.The story is interesting, as we watch how a disgraced hero tries and succeeds to restore morality and self-respect to others and himself. Some clichés could be absent however, as they produce a sense of deja-vu which could definitely be avoided. Moreover, it would be better if the director was a bit more restrained in his overly patriotic tone, as this spoils this otherwise good film.Redford is very good in his role as always, and so is James Gandolfini. They are both well-fit for their respective roles, and their duel develops perfectly.The Last Castle gets 7/10. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, but bogus conflict","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Unlike other reviewers, I actually liked the patriotic elements, the ending, and all the drama surrounding the raising of the American flag. I thought it was a real tear-jerker.However, this movie still sucks because the reasons behind conflict between the prisoners and the prison commandant was very vague and lacked any on-screen justification. Although it is implied that the warden arbitrarily has prisoners killed(with rubber bullets, BTW), it is never made apparent that the prisoners were aware of this or of any unusual abuse.In a deleted scene in the DVD release, they show the villain at his worst... USING UP THE WHOLE GYM while the other prisoners wait outside. Jeeez! They could've at least made the guy out into some evil Nazi-like torture fiend, rather than just another asshole in a uniform. If the prisoners were true American heroes, they would've just put with things and do their duty by serving their time.A word of advice If you ever are in a military prison, put up and serve your time peacefully unless you're ACTUALLY being abused. "}{"Title":"Literalists hate it; Realists love it ... people --alll of them-- are human!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Because the warden's self-protecting screen can see only black and white, so that he might avoid anything resembling empathy, he feels he is entitled to bestially treat inmates anyway he wants ... as he does in spades. Our just-the-facts-Ma'm warden here acts on the premise that 'convicted' means you're purely vermin, and thereby deserve nothing, because justice dictates you should and must be punished, despite all those wrongfully convicted cases that are forever popping up. The system is flawed, yet literalists see only black and white, so can't accept that as even a remote possibility -- Why, what would my Sunday school teacher think if I was sympathetic? So, they played to the heartstrings a little too much to make a point -- that point is still valid! I appreciated the determined cleverness of Irwin's character, the loyalty of his Sergeant-major, but especially Yates' integrity and refusal to go along until convinced, selfishly playing the 'snitch' in the meantime -- all lovable character traits. "},{"Title":"Good and bad","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" On the one hand I liked this movie (always start positive -)) as it gave me a bit the feeling I got in Shawshank Redemption  people sticking together in difficult circumstances.On the other hand it felt a bit exaggerated to me  this would never happen in real life... It's off course a movie but with a movie like this, you're aiming at a more realistic approach. Also the end of the movie didn't really satisfy me. It left me with the feeling that it was all for nothing.Conclusion  liked it and liked it not but Robert Redford puts down an excellent acting role which pulls the movie to a positive score.So my final score  7/10 "},{"Title":"good not great movie","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If seen the movie with my family in the weekend, rent hem. the script was very good, the casting was also very good. two great actors against each other in a psychology war. the location of the castle was a bit of Grey maybe on purpose. had some great action time,also great psycho moments between the great. I don't want you to tell you to much, you must seen for your self. it was not a waist of time to seen the movie it have great and amusing moments. my family members also enjoyed the movie. But the end still life you on your hungry, to many questions of the result of all that action. i hope my comment Will not stop you from seen the movie. "},{"Title":"The first 30 minutes were boring, but after that it all got better.","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" At first the movie didn't really convince me. After about 20 to 30 minutes I really wanted to hit the STOP-button on my remote. It was boring, uninspired and far from original. I don't know why, but I didn't stop the movie, and I'm glad I didn't...OK, this may not be the best movie ever, but it certainly is nice to watch. As I already said in the introduction, the first 30 minutes were boring, but after that it all got better. Especially when the prisoners try to take over the prison, it all gets interesting. I like the idea that the battle between the leader of the camp and the leader of the revolt is seen as a tactical game of chess. That was really a nice idea...The movie has a lot of well choreographed action scenes, who still seem to be realistic. All the weapons the prisoners use, could actually be made by inmates and even the force used by the prison's chief might be possible. All in all this is a very enjoyable movie that's perhaps not the best you've ever seen, but certainly worth a watch. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Decent, I suppose","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film for the second(and most likely last) time today... the quotes are simply to make it clear that I didn't pay enough attention to it to claim that I actually *saw* it... more like glimpsed at it, occasionally. Do you know why? Because I had seen it once before. Once. That's all there is to it. The film is decent, but it's overlong, tame and much less than it could have been, which makes it almost impossible to sit through, more than once. The plot is decent, but it's mainly made up to combine drama and action in a story about a general who's put in a military prison, where he fights the commander whom he finds to be a bad leader... leadership is one of the biggest themes in the film, which may or may not be part of why it fails. The pacing is bad, and pretty much ruins every thought of watching the movie more than once. The acting is pretty good. Redford is good, as usual, and Gandolfini is pretty good as well. The supporting cast also do their jobs fairly good. The characters are fairly well-written, but, once again, they're mostly just there to combine action and drama. The action is decent. The soundtrack is fairly good. The cinematography is unimaginative and bland. All in all, there's just not really anything in this movie that's worthwhile... at best, it's worth a single viewing, and only if you're a big fan of prison flicks, Robert Redford or films about the military. I recommend it to very big fans of Redford, prison flicks and military flicks. If you have to see it, rent, don't buy. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Compelling Viewing","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I would recommend this movie to everyone. A very compelling story and great casting. Don't be put off by some of the other negatives written. View the movie; you won't be disappointed.A very entertaining story with depth and a movie you would watch more than once. One for the DVD library. Robert Redford has always chosen his scripts with impeccable judgment. Well done, Mr. Redford. James Gandolfini also played a superb role as Col. Winter along with the fabulous Delroy Lindo(General Wheeler) and their supporting cast.Just keep the movies coming Mr Redford we never tire of you. Unfortunately, we haven't until now, been given the opportunity to view this movie. A great view.  "},{"Title":"As a person in the army i think this movie was great.","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched The Last Castle starring Robert Redford and James Gandolfini. I'm currently in the army and i lead troops and this movie really shows what a great leader can do outside of combat. I don't like war and this movie isn't about war. The Last Castle is about leadership and a great leader, General Eugene Irwin who serves jail-time in a military prison. Through the movie Irwin earns the respect of the other inmates, starts a riot and in the end takes over the prison. The movie was great with all it's effects and the deep roles played by Gandolfini and Redford. Maybe i'm just going crazy here in the army but i really recommend that you check this one out. Peace.  "},{"Title":"You have yourself a Castle","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle You have yourself a Castle, a Castle only needs one king. Robert Redford i think was fantastic in this movie. This movie was made in 2001, if you did like this movie then i'm sure you'll like Brubaker, another movie starring Robert Redford. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Who is the villain?","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While watching this movie, I really could not tell whether or not I liked it.  I found the acting superb, and I was surprised at how well Gandolfini played the serenely twisted Col. Winter.  However, the character was missing a needed element, I think because the screenplay was sorely lacking in many respects. I did not find Com. Winter that evil, or Irwin that good.  There was not a clear wrong or corruption here, (the only thing that comes to mind here is the corruption in The Shawshank Redemption).  I just could not find satisfaction after viewing. "},{"Title":"Very good movie - and often misunderstood","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've been reading the comments here and I can see that a lot of people who are commenting on this movie just don't quite get it.*** SPOILER ALERT ***Okay, by now you should know that this is a movie based in a military prison.  What most of the people who are commenting on here on this board don't realize is that this movie is based in a MILITARY PRISON!  It may seem like I'm repeating myself - there's a reason.  Military prisons do not operate under the civilian criminal justice system.  They operate under military law, military regulations, and are governed (as Redford / IRWIN says in the movie) under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ for short).(And in case you think I have rocks in my head, or should have to move the pile of rocks because I don't know what I'm talking about - I have a Masters Degree in Criminology, did an internship in the US Federal Prison in Terre Haute, and was also an officer in the INARNG.)Does anyone recall 'The Dirty Dozen'?  Those guys were all prisoners - yet they took their chances in combat because they were soldiers.  I suspect that most of the people who are making derogatory comments about the prisoners have never served in the military themselves, or they would understand something that we who have do understand.First, we all volunteer to serve in the military - to be soldiers.  Being a soldier is special - because you are what is preventing the barbarians at the gates from pillaging your home (when it's broken down to the basics.) This is taught to every person in every branch of the service - because it's true. Second, if you are in a prison, and you are abusing the prisoners, you should be behind the bars as well.  (Anyone ever heard of human dignity?) Third, men will follow a leader.  (Anyone who doubts that should read up on Theodore Roosevelt and George Patton.  They had lousy personalities outside the service - but they had the ability to lead.)So, what do we have here?  Redford / IRWIN is a 3-star general.  He's survived 6 years in the Hanoi Hilton.  He's led his men into combat numerous times - given orders that have no doubt led to some of their deaths in the past, that's just part of it.  He faces a court-martial for disobeying an order from the president which led to the deaths of 8 of his soldiers.  He accepts the responsibility for this, because as their leader, he caused their deaths, and pleads guilty at his court martial.  He gets to the prison, where Galdonfini / WINTER is the warden.  WINTER has never served in combat - never heard a shot fired in anger.  (Which is entirely possible, given that he's an MP.)  Many of the prisoners have already served with WINTER, during Desert Storm, or had family, such as Ruffalo / YATES, whose father was a POW with WINTER in Vietnam.Apparently a lot of people didn't pay attention - the trebuchet was built from the weight benches.  Easily done, especially if planned in advance. One of the most effective devices for laying siege to a castle - especially since it could throw weights in excess of 500 pounds almost half a mile. And the slingshots - we used to use something similar to that back in college in water balloon fights.  We called them a gazorch - surgical tubing, a funnel between the tubing, two-four strong guys to hold the tubing, and you can send a water balloon 300 yards or more.  (Been there, done that!)Most of the guards knew that ZAMORO was killing the prisoners with headshots with the rubber bullets, and that was wrong.  Why do people think that those guards would have shot WINTER from the towers?  The prisoners had control of the prison - they could have easily maintained that control - but they didn't.  They had already turned control back over the military.  The men on the walls were soldiers, also.  Unlike a regular prison guard, they are not going to follow an order that they believe to be unlawful.  Shooting an unarmed prisoner would have been an unlawful command.  (Goes back to the UCMJ - which is NOT civilian law!)As for Collins / AGUILLAR - don't forget one detail.  He was apparently the only Marine in the prison (which in and of itself was an error - he should have been in a navy prison, not an army one, although I'm not sure if there IS a navy prison anymore).  A Marine, especially a corporal, is going to respect the rank of a 3 star - period.To give you some idea of how the UCMJ works - read Article 99.  Punishment is death, and may be by summary court martial.  Misbehavior before the enemy - so being a coward can get you shot by your own side.  This is without a trial - your commander can be the judge, jury, and executioner - and is perfectly legal.  WINTER was guilty of Article 93 under the UCMJ, the prisoners knew it.  The prisoners themselves could, technically, be subject to Article 94 of the UCMJ, but since IRWIN was leading the prisoners, then he probably would have been the only one punished.Hey, under the UCMJ, you can go to prison for one year for adultery - so all you people out there who think this is a typical prison film just have no idea what you're talking about.10 out of 10 - excellent movie "}{"Title":"Very far from perfect, James Gandolfini and Robert Redford are reasons to see this movie.","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle refers to the military prison, and James Gandolfini plays the king of this castle. Robert Redford, a three-star general, begins his incarceration for disobeying a direct order, which resulted in 8 soldiers dead. He admits his guilt, makes no excuses, plans to just serve his time then go home. Even though he is a legend among other soldiers, even the king, he doesn't want to get involved in anything. Being a leader in prison is the last thing he wants. However, as he finds out what is really going on, and how prisoners are being treated inhumanely, he cannot avoid his destiny.The critic Ebert has written an unusually complete and meaningful review, I will not repeat any of it here. However, the following contains SPOILERS, do not read further if you want to be surprised.While I enjoyed the whole two hours of the movie, and give it a favorable rating, the last one-third where the prisoners planned and executed a take-over seems a bit over the top, although entertaining. In the end, when the warden shoots and kills the General, when he thinks he is about to hoist the flag upside down, you feel that was the only possible ending.  Not only because the warden was that disturbed, but how could the general ever get out of his role essentially destroying the prison with fire bombs and catapults, and causing a helicopter to crash?The DVD picture is better than average, and the surround sound is used well. At one point there was a helicopter flying around my viewing room. There are extras but I didn't take time to view any of them. "},{"Title":"Leadership","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie showed great leadership skills in the character of general Irwin.  He was able to gain the trust of the prisoners and rebel against the warden. His communication with the prisoners was great.  I liked how he led by example and followed through, this man is an innate leader "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 2001","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a classic film work. It is action packed. Robert Redford plays his role,like he is actually The General. He should have gotten a Best Actor nomination. Great performances from supporting cast members. Including TV's James Gandolfini. He plays the role perfectly,you despise him very much. The plot is excellent. With one of the best musical scores I`ve ever heard. This movie is one you actually experience. You are with the prisoners,when they are tortured,and tormented. You are with them when they wage war on Gandolfini and crew. Great film.5/5 "},{"Title":"fabulous","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen a lot of jail movies in my life, and I can tell you this is the best I've seen. More entertainment then THE SHAWSHANK, and much better dialogues then ANIMAL FARM... Simply, this is THE BEST!!! Robert Redford may be an old actor (BUTCH CASSIDY & THE SUNDANCE KID), he's still the best! So if you want to rent (or buy) a great jail movie, don't forget this one! Yes, I know THE ROCK is a better movie, but I recommend this movie. I didn't want to rent it in the store. I thought it was going to be another stupid jail movie... AGAIN. But when I saw it, I loved it! This is a MUST for everyone who conscidderes him/herself as a filmfreak! "},{"Title":"Ultra-patriotic pap","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If Americans are still wondering why much of the rest of the world  gets impatient with the xenophobic, ultra-patriotic pap forced down gagging throats, this movie--particularly its excruciating ending-- might well provide an answer. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, understated acting by Redford and Gandolfini carries this tragic movie.Gandolfin","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gandolfini (of Sopranos fame and an ageing but effectiveRedford  lend telling facial expressions and understated emotionsto a tragic story of  former American Armed Forces personnel (alllevels and services) now in a high security military prison. Gandolfini is a sadistic warden, and Redford is a formerhero-general.  They clash, and Redford wins over the inmates andrestores their self confidence and pride with tragic consequencesincluding some deaths, and a violent prisoner revolt.  There isterrific suspense throughout, but especially  in the last half hour. Several inmates are excellent in their small roles.  This movie isabout self respect against impossible odds.  The ending is verysad.  I would like a sequel with Gandolfini on court martial and trialfor the terrible tings he does in his role as Warden.  Exhaustingmovie. "},{"Title":"Combination prison/action movie is good","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I did not know what kind of movie to expect when I watched The Last Castle. My logic was that Robert Redford would at least make it watchable. I found myself really liking this movie. To anyone I would describe it as Shawshank Redemption with more action. This was also my first exposure to James Gandolfini and I really liked his work in this film as the officer in charge of the prison. Redford gives a strong performance in the film. He seems broken and commanding at the same time. He made his character interesting through his relationships with the other inmates. It was fun to watch many of the characters go through various developments. The Last Castle has a good story and gives messages of patriotism, and second chances. "},{"Title":"Well-meaning but an understandable flop","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsTLC had all the ingredients to be a big major Hollywood release.As it is,it was only ever a limited release film.A flop,in fact.How could this be?Well,all the ingredients are there,but the recipe is all wrong,so to speak.First-and-foremost,Robert Redford is simply too old to be taken seriously as an action hero anymore.In Britain's terms,he's of pensioner age,and it only shows a swelling up in the Hollywood market that somebody much younger could not be chosen to head the cast.The rest of the cast,especially a sincere James Gandolfini,are generally pretty good,but Delroy Lindo is wasted as the commanding superior.The film is also overlong,and at times seems unsure whether it wants to actually be an action thriller or a Shawshank Redemption esque prison drama.** "},{"Title":"All the ingredients I hate but...","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Kept moving this movie to the bottom of the pile of things to watch because it contained everything I dislike in a movie. Prison story, violence, war themes, lack of female role, etc. All this being said, I finally watched it today and was completely engrossed. Outstanding acting, excellent story and several outstanding sub plots led to a very interesting movie. Redford is not aging as well as could be expected but still he is a treat to watch. Gandolfini was a wonderful villain and Tony Soprano was nowhere in evidence. A very decent movie indeed.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone said","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My friend told me this movie sucked, so I watched the DVD with low expectations, but it really wasn't that bad.  I think Redford gave an excellent and convincing performance as the wayward General, and Gandolfini managed to hide enough of Tony Soprano to be watchable.  Great supporting cast and action sequences.  I give it a thumbs up. "}{"Title":"A director takes something wrong and makes it look right....","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Here is another example of how Hollywood takes something that is wrong and makes it look OK to do.If the director can make you like a character, they can make you like what that character does, wrong or right.Robert Redford's character takes all the prisoners in this military prison and revolts against all rules; blows up military property, harms and/or kills personnel and yet, it looks like he had the right to.All sub-plots are weak and shallow. "},{"Title":"Good acting makes a bad film worse","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say... the actors in this film is excellent. The film itself is a piece of garbage.  The result is a film that is worse than it should be, as the fine performance from a fine cast is not only wasted on a shoddy, cliched plot and lack of character development, but more inexcusably tricks people into thinking there must be some sort of redeeming message in the conclusion of the film (there isn't).  Though James Gandolfini's character tries to remind us thoughout the film that the prisoners are in prison because they are in fact criminals, the film itself will not accept this simple fact, and attempts to make martyrs and paradigms of the American spirit out of violent men.  Redford tells a prisoner who took a claw hammer to his commander's head that since he was a Marine for 2 years, and a violent criminal for '5 seconds' it seems that he is still '98% Marine'. It is this easy dismissal of WHO these people are that begins to undermine the credibility of the plot. Though Gandolfini's character is certainly in the wrong in his actions, his observations that Redford's character wishes to create his own private army, to have a command, and to vainly attempt to lead these 'soldiers' is precisely on the money.  While the film badly wants to convince us that Redford is a truly great man trying to give these criminals worth, pride, and leadership, what it shows us is the fall of what may have been a great man into a pointless, egocentric crusade.  In the end, he of course achieves his tangible goal - but at a price that leaves me asking 'why?', and wondering how the filmmakers could have possibly thought that they had delivered the message they are so desperately trying to deliver. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Every Castle has a king.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well I went in rather skeptical, but rest a short... this movie... is not boring. It starts of well and till the last moment it is one of the best movies I have seen (and that is a lot) I dont even understand why its getting an avg rating of 6.6.Robert Redford was classic, the perfect general, and the setting made it the perfect battleground.If any of you liked Gladiator or Braveheart or even Shawshank Redemption there is no way you wont like this movie.I would advise almost everyone to watch this movie. You cannot regret it. "},{"Title":"A faulty premise makes for laughable plot.","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I give this film 1 star. Major Spoilers ahead.I recently rented the DVD,  avoiding this film in the theatre,  mainly because I was tired of Hollywood prison films (Shawshank Redemption, Green Mile).  As I started to watch the DVD,  I was presented with the premise that they would allow a large pile of rocks to sit in the middle of the prison yard.  This immediately derailed the film's believability.  Sure!  Allow the prisoners to have access to a bunch big of rocks,  good for throwing at guards and inciting riots!  Then comes Robert Redford as a court-martialed general (a role reversal from his film `Brubaker').  I didn't buy the soft-spoken Redford as a General,  there is no fire in his eyes.  All I saw was Robert Redford the actor,  not his character.  The real reason, however,  you should avoid this film is the pure hokum in the third act.  We are supposed believe that the prisoners were able to construct **MEDIEVAL CATAPULTS AND SLINGSHOTS**  right under everyone's noses.  I would've probably been laughing out loud if I saw this in the theatre.  Actually I thought they were going to take the pile of rocks and make a big rock staircase and climb over the wall.  Dumb dumb dumb. Since I could not get past these obstacles in the story,  I did not care at all about anything else.  The director has shown terrific ability with `The Contender',  and I'm sure he can make better films.  It is interesting to note that in the director's commentary for the film,  he confesses that he is not a good filmmaker sometimes.  For instance,  he had no knowledge about how to put an action sequence together.  Perhaps he should stay away from big budget films,  he may get caught up in the Hollywood version of Reality.  "},{"Title":"The Shawshank Redemption meets OZ.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If movies based on a prison theme are your thing, then this is the movie for you!  Redford is a three star general who is given a ten year prison sentence in a high level secruity military prison.  As time is served, Redford sees despair amongst his fellow inmates and corruption within the system.  I wont tell you anymore, but when Redford plans and initiates his course of action this movie just opens up and explodes with triumph and honor.  In my opinion, this movie is without a doubt Academy Award material for Acting and Writing. I promise you will ENJOY THE SHOW!!! "},{"Title":"Not Again!! Contrived Hollywood Propaganda","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One would figure that between Mr. Sundance and Mr. Tony Soprano a movie about a prison uprising would be pretty good for action fans and might even be thought provoking  -well, not this one. Instead, what the viewer gets is a contrived wanna-be melodrama about honor, courage, and dedication to preserve the American spirit. The plot of the film basically mimics various aspects of Cool Hand Luke, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The Shawshank Redemption, and Taps. Unfortunately, the movie's lack of character development, cheesy score, unoriginal scenes, and questionable direction leaves the viewer feeling ripped-off and slighted. In comparison to other highly regarded films of the same genre, The Last Castle fails to establish any kind of authentic sense of purpose and comes across as more of a self-aggrandizing Hollywood Blockbuster masking propaganda as American spirit and honor but failing to examine how or why those convictions were established among its characters in the first place.Instead, the viewer is left to assume that the men in military prison are basically good men somehow transformed into criminals by their experiences in the armed forces. And it is the viewers duty to feel sorry for them because they are all being mistreated by the evil prison colonel. Very original huh?Overall, the supporting cast of this movie is very likeable and somewhat memorable and the action (which all takes place during the climax) is solid but not sufficient to save the film from failure. The ending scene is bathed in false pretension and exposes the movie for what it is - a contrived and unoriginal microcosm of the Hollywood filmmaking industry - mindless mass entertainment for profit poorly masqueraded through false moral pretenses. For a more realistic, contemporary drama and introspective examination of military-instilled values and judgment systems of American soldiers - check out Rules of Engagement - it is a much better movie than this one. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Flag waving, pathetic and overlong.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford and James Gandolfini are capable actors. Director Rod Lurie is an ex-film critic and scored with The Contender. But the collaboration of those three talents is a complete mess The Last Castle is well acted but patriotic, militaristic, pathetic and overlong. I get angry when I see one guy saluting in a movie (it made a very bad movie out of the already bad Rules of Engagement for example) but when a whole movie consists of saluting, I wet my pants - this is so ridiculous! Sometimes I thought James Gandolfini thought that the whole thing is actually a comedy because NOBODY could take a film seriously in which 64-year-old Redford takes of his shirt and transports rocks from one pile to another - and back again while Jerry Goldsmiths music is triumphing in the back and inmates are applauding ... and saluting. Come on! That must be a satire on all those flag waving movies!Well I guess The Last Castle is not meant to be ironic, because director Lurie is a West Point graduate. He made a spot for the army - almost as bad as those Marines-recruiting spots which said something like the strong, the brave, the marines. I thought people who still buy that stuff were extinct.Rating 4/10 (3.5 actually but I like Gandolfini) "},{"Title":"A terrible film, in my opinion...","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think they could have packed any more clichés into this movie if they tried. The actors did a fine job, but the script was just weak. The only reason I could understand such a high score is the sudden tide of patriotism after Sept. 11. Give it a couple of years, and see if it stands up then. "},{"Title":"The three c's make it to the screen (together) for a rare appearance, CHARISMA, CREDIBILITY and CLOUT!","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You wanna good film? Then make your characters interesting and give 'em a top story! In no particular order ALIENS, THE ROCK, LANTANA, FALLING DOWN, HIGHLANDER, THE LION IN WINTER, LETHAL WEAPON, to name but a few, who observe that particular edict!In THE LAST CASTLE we have all this and more! Redford (what is this guy TAKING? that ANY of us are gonna look this good at 64!!!!!) plays mega decorated war hero General Irwin, under whose command bin Laden would have handed over his Ouzi and AK47 months ago! This guy is a walking purple heart! So encrusted with steel-embellished leadership quality is he, that even being relieved of his command, uniform and freedom, he still calls the shots even while doing a stretch in maximum security of military prison. Before you can say Stand easy Private, he has the other low-lifes regimented and asking How high Sir?King of the Castle however is SOPRANO regular Gandolfini as warden Winter, a mean SOB to whose ear has come word of mouth that General Irwin has been offering less than flattering remarks in his direction. Now, with his nemsesis delivered to his door as it were, he intends breaking Irwin publicly and keeping intact his reputation for the hardest man on earth!From this point onwards we have an IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT stand off where the two initiate a Chess-like strategy of basic manoeuvers, designed to force the other into error. Watching them go at it, restores one's faith in good old fashioned movie making, and indeed this is more of a 70's/80's type flick, its chronology evidenced only by the cutting edge fx. In this basic war-within-four-walls set-to, don't look for a message, simply to be entertained! Probably the best film EITHER Redford or Gandolfini have had options on since the Cold War.Interesting to note that Lurie himself is a former West Point Graduate with obviously then 'inside information' as to the Army ways. He puts this knowledge to maximum use if the end result is anything to be judged by!  Some are muttering Oscar-potential, that may be knee-jerk stuff but hell this is one great movie. "},{"Title":"Redford vs. Gandolfini and the winner is.....","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In 'The Last Castle', Robert Redford plays a high ranking army general who is convicted and sent to a military prison for disobeying a direct presidential order and getting some of his men killed during a military operation.  The prison warden (James Gandolfini in an Oscar calibre performance) tries to be a moral and orderly figure of authority but unfortunately his high moral ground turns him into a self righteous brute whose ethics go awry all the time believing in what he is doing with the best intentions possible.  Redford has never been a great actor.  Like John Wayne, he seems to play himself in all of his performances but is prepared and knows his routine so he is respectable but he has always been a better director and politician.  James Gandolfini is a very different story.  He upstages the entire cast of this film..... doing a complete turn from his brilliant portrayal of television history's greatest leading dramatic character, that of Tony Soprano on 'The Sopranos'.  Director Rod Lurie, in an encore to 2000's 'The Contender', does a great job here, always working better with his supporting players and he has a free flowing sense of academic style which makes his films believable and highly entertaining.  What else could you ask for? "}{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The reviews herein make interesting reading.  What is clear is that there is little ambivalence about this film.  They hated or they loved it.  Some try to sweep it away casually as another prison film, some want to argue the lines are full of clichés and one feels sympathy for the warden, Col. Winters because if they're in a prison, they are bad guys in the first place.  Alas, most of these negative reviewers wind up telling us more about themselves than about the film and frankly, I don't really care about them.  No film will please everybody and this effort with some superb acting by Gandolfini, Redford, Lindo and others, works.  No, it's not Stephen King and Redford (who was born the same year as myself) is not over the hill.  This is a fine film with an engaging story that offers several departures from the mainstream of prison films, King's excellent story included.  Redford, a political activists, tends toward films with a statement.  Gandolfini, reunited with Lindo, after the hilarious Get Shorty, is excellent as the warden.  Lindo, who was great in Malcom X, is an often underused talent whose brief time on screen in this film makes us want to see more of him.  Also, wonderful support comes from Cliff Collins, grandson of Mexican character actor Pedro Gonzalez-Gonzalez and Sam Ball.  Likewise the support of Mark Ruffalo and Steve Burton, TV stars, adds to the texture of this fine screenplay. As for those skeptics who decry the departure from reality that makes up the story, I can only say, if it were true to life, we likely wouldn't have a story.  I loved the story and would like to see more of this kind of writing. "},{"Title":"A great movie masterpiece","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Frankly I have to say, I'm not much of a Robert Redford fan. I've only seen maybe two of his movies. But I think I have missed out a bit, because he truly is a talented actor. The Last Castle proves his great acting abilities. It's great to see Redford back in front of a camera, rather then behind it. James Gandolfini poses as a good supporting 'evil' actor in his best performance since starting The Sapronos. Delroy Lindo, man I haven't seen him in a good film since 1997's Ransom. For some reason I like prison movies (Shawshank Redemption being a fav.) so I really did enjoy this one. I guess the next one on my list is Spy Games with Redford and Brad Pitt. I would tell anyone to go and check this film out. It's worth the 6 bucks. "},{"Title":"This prison flick is a must see .....","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not your typical run of the mill prison flick. This is set in a millitary prison, the warden James Garofini admires the new inmate General Irwin at first, until Irwin looks at Garofini's collection of memorabillia and says a man that has this much memorabillia must have never set foot on the battle field...and then ITS ON!!! A very emotional movie that makes you feel proud to be an american in a werid kind of way... 9/10 (Although I liked the end...I think it could be a smitch better) "},{"Title":"No Shawshank but good all the same","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You can't help but compare prison films to the Shawshank Redemption.  This is the one I've seen thus far that scrubs up reasonably well.Robert Redford, who I personally thought was a washed up old bore, is excellent as the court martialed officer sentenced to the military prison who initiates a takeover against evil warden Gandolfini, who is brilliant as ever.The symbolism of the wall scenes are powerful, and this is a top film -- perhaps Hollywood is starting to do some more thoughtful films finally? "},{"Title":"Not terribly impressed","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I had high expectations of this film.  After all, with Gandolfini, Redford, and Ruffalo in it, it couldn't be that bad, right?  Wrong.  It was an interesting premise, but the dialogue left a lot to be desired.  I found myself giggling through parts that I know weren't supposed to be giggle-worthy.  I think that if you want to see a film about military people dissatisfied with their current positions, you should save a few bucks and rent Tigerland. "},{"Title":"SOME PEOPLE HAVE UNREALISTIC EXPECTATIONS","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the other reviews, I felt I HAD to respond.  Some of the moviegoers that reviewed this film said it was very unrealistic.  My response is---AND?  If you thought it was going to be realistic, you probably should have rented The Shawshank Redemption, as that seems to be the movie most of you thought you were going to see.  When I saw the preview for The Last Castle, I knew right away it would be unrealistic.  A former general gents sent to prison and then takes over the prison.  This is not something you see every day.  That is why it's called ENTERTAINMENT.  I am in the military, so if anyone should be offended by the unrealistic plot, it should be us military folks.  However, I didn't spend 8 bucks hoping to see a realistic depiction of either prison life or military life.  I spent 8 bucks expecting to see as unrealistic of a plot as I could.  There is plenty of unsettling reality on the news if that is what you want.  If you went in the theater expecting reality, that's your own fault.  Next time, read a review or watch the preview or SOMETHING.  I thought it was a very ENTERTAINING movie.  However, I will agree with you on one point  It was not very realistic.   "},{"Title":"DO NOT SEE","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was horrible.  There was not nearly enough character development to make you feel sorry for the prisoners. Really, I felt worse for the Prison Guard. Gandolfini's character was somewhat pathetic, and incredibly immature, but I still felt worse for him. He was only doing his job, and he wasn't nearly evil enough to make me hate him like the prisoners did. And they were PRISONERS...most of them in there for murder..and we are supposed to be on their side? They aren't angels, Gandolfini has a right to treat them as if they were murderers because, well they WERE! The whole movie was completely unbelievable. Just when did the prisoners have time to make weapons without being watched? You mean to tell me NO one noticed they were working on weaponry?  This movie didn't make me feel anything for either side, all I cared about at the end was either Gandolfini or Redford getting shot so the movie would just end. One of the most ill-thought of plots I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"rather pointless","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  saw this movie at matinee prices, and, glad I didn't go full price.  Robert Redford did not fit his character.  Other actors that come to mind that would have fulfilled the role Gene Hackman, James Caan, Powers Booth, Tommy Lee Jones, just to name a few. Any of which would have pulled it off far better than Redford. A Lt. General who spent six years in a Hanoi pow camp, and then served in the Persian Gulf during Desert Storm would never had been sent to a prison, irregardless of his offense.  He would tender his resignation and early retired with a reduction of retirement pay.  NO TWO WAYS ABOUT IT. The story line was totally unbelievable.  "},{"Title":"I never bought it.","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most disappointing movies I've seen in a long time.  From the trailers, I knew that the movie would have to wage an uphill battle convincing me that I should sympathize with a group of inmates who are guilty of committing serious -- usually violent -- crimes.  Unlike the Shawshank Redemption where the principal character (Tim Robbins) is innocent, and his sidekick (Morgan Freeman) has been incarcerated far beyond the merits of his crime, the inmates in The Last Castle are all there for completely legitimate reasons.  We learn that one of them attacked his officer with a claw hammer.  General Irwin (Robert Redford) disobeyed a direct order from the commander-in-chief and consequently forfeited the lives of 8 service people.  Sure, the warden (James Gandolfini) is a career underachiever with a deep-seated grudge for real soldiers.  Sure, he has a certain sadistic predisposition.  But does that justify a prison uprising all to take possession of the flag?  I say no.  General Irwin's entire purpose was to restore self respect to the other inmates and to himself. Couldn't he have accomplished his aims non violently?  Ultimately, Irwin works himself into such a bind that the movie's ending is all too predictable. "},{"Title":"One of the year's best...","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Rod Lurie is quickly climbing my list of favorite directors.  After last year's great The Contender, he comes back just a year later with his best effort to date, THE LAST CASTLE.  This film has no major flaws, which is rare, especially in a weak year like this one.  Redford is excellent and powerful, hopefully a Best Actor contender.  Gandolfini is also excellent, and should be a Supporting Actor nominee if the Academy wakes up for once. Anyway, this picture has just the right combination of great dialog, superior cinematography (Shelly Johnson), great scoring (Mr. Goldsmith), an incredibly effective action sequence at the end, and a large dose of patriotism added on top.  This movie is coming out at just the right time and I was proud to get an advance look at it last night.  I recommend this to everyone.  It will make you smile for all the right reasons and make you proud.  I gave it a 94 on my grading scale. "}{"Title":"Pay the $9","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I managed to catch a press screening of this movie back at the start of summer and what I saw blew me away. When I received the initial invitation for the screening, I read on the paper that it was about a convicted general and his fight with the warden. So needless to say, I went into this movie thinking that it would be more or less another crappy prison movie. Like The Shawshank Redemption meets Attica. Not that those movies are bad, but I was expecting a bad mish mash of the two plots. The other thing that was bugging me was the fact that James Gandolfini was cast in the role of the warden. Now, I have seen almost all of Gandolfini's work, including some of his plays, and I was doubting of his ability to pull off his certain role.Right from the beginning, my doubts of Gandolfini's ability were thrown out of the window. He was able to pull off something completely different from what I was afraid he was going to be typecast as. As for Robert Redford, he was vintage Redford. As I watched, I saw remnants of his roles in `Indecent Proposal', `Sneakers' and `The Sting'. Even more interesting, I had striking flashbacks to Harry in `The Great Escape.' As the movie progressed, I watched in awe at the way that everything was sewn up tight leaving no loose ends.All throughout the movie, I never once got bored or annoyed with the characters or the action unlike other recent movies like say, `15 Minutes' or the grossly treated `Pearl Harbor'.  For once, I was genuinely engrossed in the whole movie.  The characters were sharp; the plot was predictable but damn good in spite of that and the way everything was executed with pinpoint precision.  How refreshing to have a movie experience that doesn't leave you wanting more.I won't go into detail with the specifics of the film, but I will tell you that this is truly deserving of the $9 to see watch it. I also suggest that you go and see this one in the theater and not wait for it to come out on video.  I do apologize if this seems to be a little serving to the movie, but it was good enough to keep me interested and if any of you know me, for a movie to keep me interested, it has to be damn good.  So I encourage you, even if you are not of the prison/war movie genre, go see this movie.  Pay the money, buy the popcorn rip the ticket and watch the movie.  That is all, go back to surfing  "},{"Title":"The Last Castle","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A drama/action about a 3 star general Eugene Irwin(Robert Redford)who gets sent to a military prison castle because he ignored a direct command from the president of the united states of America and 8 men died because he didn't obey the command.But even in prison Eugene Irwin(Robert Redford)has a war to fight not against his fellow inmates but against Col.Winter(James Gandolfini) the warden of the prison castle.The entire cast Robert Redford(Eugene Irwin),James Gandolfini(Col.Winter),Mark Ruffalo(Yates),and Delroy Lindo(Gen.Wheeler)all give spectacular performances in this movie but Clifton Collins Jr.(Ramon Aguilar) gave a completely unconvincing performance I'm glad his character died early in the movie because if he had not it would have ruined the entire movie.Rod Lurie did a great job with the directing the screenplay was OK it got annoying at times.The storyline was clever very original there is not that many movies about a military prison. There were a lot of flaws in this movie there is a couple plot holes and the story wasn't necessarily the most accurate one i have ever seen but it was very entertainingBest actor/actress-Robert RedfordA Breath of fresh air to be able to see something original-Jake HydenI rated this movie a 7/107/10 "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable movie","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think people are reading into this movie too much. There's this little thing called literary license--it's a movie, it's not supposed to be based 100% on fact.Moving along from there, I think it was a very good movie. From what I could tell, the military information was accurate, even the history of the salute (at least according to the textbook the US Air Force issued me, so go figure).The only complaint I had about this movie was the disregard for the lives of the guards at the end. While it was somewhat entertaining to see the prisoners launching homemade firebombs into the guard towers, I don't think it's very realistic. Those men were still soldiers, and murder is still murder.Along the same lines though, I would hope that the guards would not have obeyed COL Winter's orders to abuse the prisoner, but sometimes people abuse the power given to them.On the whole though, I rather enjoyed this movie, and I know the other people who saw it with me did as well--maybe it's just because I was in a room full of people training to be officers in various branches of the military, but I think there were a lot of good leadership lessons in that movie.And for those of you who can only see the bad in the movie, I think you should just grow up and chill out--it's just a movie, after all. "},{"Title":"Before debating the crap out of this great movie....!!","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Why not educate yourself about the movie before debating the sh*t out of it? Visit the official site www.thelastcastle.com The site might contain spoilersBuy the movie,it's great.After reading the official site,I understood the movie even more,even though I did understood the spirit from just watching the movie.Just a quote from the official site,explaining why Robert Redford took the role He's a very interesting character-a military general who is court-martialed for violating the very code he always stood for. Because he accepts his guilt, he submits himself to the punishment of prison, where he meets Colonel Winter. The Through-line of the piece is the contest between these two characters-one born to lead and the other born to want to lead, which doesn't necessarily make you a leader. I thought that was good stuff.There are plenty of stuff on the site with views from the Director,Screenwriter,and several actors.All you want to know and more. Best wishes Lars T. "},{"Title":"An Emotional Great","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is in my top 50. I recommend it as a movie to sit down with your girl and watch it on the big screen. This movie really hits as it is a story of injustice and the fight for human rights. There's actions and emotion, this'll will get all the big hard men crying.Robert Redford delivers a performance which is probably one of his best. He has matured to a right old age and has become one of those great actor vintages. The many minor characters also do a great job and add to the realism of the military prison. The Last Castle is a king among films and is beautifully written with perfect camera work adding to the drama. A really great film. Watch it! "},{"Title":"one of the good movies *spoilers*","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i just saw this movie because there was nothing else to do. i was however very surprised to find that it was good. it presented intense characters that have different feelings and agendas.  the movie has an interesting plot with robert redford wanting to change a system he sees to be unjust. Prisoners immediately cling to him because he presents them with hope and for them to feel pride again.one thing that bothers me though is was the system that dysfunctional? was it worth lives? hmmm... have to wonder really. all of them after all will get out of that prison after some time. But then i think if you ask each one of those prisoners if they could have done it differently none of them would say yes. it was a chance for them to do something great.although i wish that aguilar didn't die. somewhat should have just wrestled him to the ground "},{"Title":"NOT exciting - TOTALLY predicatble","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I guarantee you will be predicting everything that is going to happen ahead of time. A general would not start a revolt and kill other soldiers that are there following orders (SO THIS MAKES THE ENTIRE PLOT IMPLAUSABLE!) A waste of time - stay away.  "},{"Title":"Go and watch something else","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I don't care whether you are a legal expert or not (Carl Abrams you mixed up the two principal characters Winter is the commandant and Irwin the prisoner!) but this film sucks - the whole premise not to mention the plot and storyline. If you must sit through this see, if like me, you can guess each plot twist as it occurs - it's not that hard to do with this film!The characters (all of them) are your stereotypical Hollywood prison drama types, and not very good ones at that. Gandolfini, Reford and Delroy Lindo are fine actors what on earth posessed them (other than their agents) to be associated with this rubbish?I guess this film came out post September 11 that's the only explanation for the cloying sentimentality of the final scenes. Save yourself go and watch something else. "},{"Title":"Some effective performances shine through","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last Castle, from director Rod Lurie, isn't a war movie, yet not really a prison movie either (wait, it is, nevermind).  It stars Robert Redford, his first good role in quite a long while, who gets sent to a military prison (knicknamed the castle) where a corrupt Colonel, played to close perfection by James Gandolfini, sometimes doesn't play by the rules and deep down can be considered a sadist.  This eventually prompts Redford to lead the rest of the prison in a mission to take over the castle.That might've been too much info (NOT IF YOU SAW THE TRAILER!), but it doesn't deter the film from being more often than not quite compelling and enthralling, especially near the last leg of the film.  Character flaws and uneeded scenes pull this movie down, however if only to see Redford and (especially) Gandolfini should the movie be seen.  Delroy Lindo (another General) and Mark Ruffalo (another prisoner) give  equally powerful supporting roles alongside the two stars.  Grade Slightly A- "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A terrible movie. The sadistic warden of a military prison sits in his tower and sees everything that's going on in the facility. He can clearly see Robert Redford instructing a fellow inmate in how to give a proper salute but he somehow does not see the presence of a medieval catapult which was cleverly hidden in the alley. Where did this thing come from? Did the prisoners order it on ebay? Did the parts arrive C.O.D.? Amazing that the perfect projectiles for this weapon are right there for the prisoners to use on the warden. Hugs rocks that were apparently left over from the days of the Three Stooges being in prison. A joke of a movie. James Gandolfini just might be another John Goodman in films. Good actor for television, but when he tries to do the silver screen, it fails like a dead fish.  "}{"Title":"There is NO EXCUSE for a film this bad!!!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Man alive this film stunk!It's on the screen right now on Cinemax.I agree with everyone who disliked this film.*** SPOILER AHEAD ***The one scene that did it for me was the killing of prisoner Aguliar, who you just KNEW would get it somehow!!!One cannot use deadly force on someone who is just STANDING and refusing to move!!!!!I doubt ANY soldier would shoot another soldier, even a prisoner, IN THE HEAD, for not moving.Bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad.ReeferGuy USMC-FDNY "},{"Title":"Not made for the everyday American","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (Bear with me on this one, dear editors)What do I mean?  Just what I said, 'Last Castle' was not made for everyday America.  Why you ask?  They waved the flag all over the place didn't they? Sure, that's how we think post 9/11.  Was that the way we felt before 9/11? You bet it wasn't.  And O.B.L. knew that.  We cruised around in our SUV's, talking on our PCS placing stock trades in our 401k's because we saw an opportunity on the internet via our wireless PDA's.Yes, I'm a flag waiver. But I was one before 9/11.  I am female and I served my country in the U.S Army.  And I understand this movie.  I understand that once a soldier always a soldier.  I understand the principles that make a soldier can never be erased.  I understand that a soldier is both ruthless and kind; duty bound but ethical.  THAT is the message of this movie.Most will miss this because they have been raised not to think about the freedoms they take for granted here in this U.S.  It's not intentional. Americans just have short attention spans.  Every day someone is making a difficult choice on their behalf somewhere in the world.  They don't think about it unless it directly affects them.This movie portrays the 'kind of people' most will never know.  The prisoners portrayed are led by a man very few could ever be.  Only a soldier could understand how and why Redford's General Irwin could or would do the things he did.  Did you connect the dots between suicide and flag raising? Could you imagine the ingenuity of those prisoners to make the weapons they made?  Gutsy of them, wasn't it?  But I find it very possible, very believable.  I knew people like this in my lifetime; flawed, imperfect, and wonderfully human.The reason you didn't like and perhaps didn't understand this movie, dear reader, is because you are not a soldier.  You do not think like, and therefore cannot see the hearts of these men.  But it's the way it's meant to be.  Who would a soldier defend if not for the blind, inattentive, ungrateful and self-serving contingent that they promise to lay down their very lives for?So you say, 'Hey wait!  I LIKED the movie!' Why did you like the movie? You liked the towers exploding, the shattering war trophy case, and the dramatic helicopter scene?  But you didn't understand it, not really.  It wasn't really about all of that.  Those scenes were merely supportive and not climatic. It wasn't really about any personal struggle between the general and the warden.  It was about right and wrong, the weakened and the strong, the forgiving and the vengeful, the human and inhuman behavior of mankind, both captor and captive.Did you understand Aguilera and the bulldozer scene?  Once a marine, always a marine; Semper Fi.  He was not rebelling.  It was just his 'Carpe Diem'. It was his day to be a soldier. It was his day to stand up against the stronger for the weaker.  He stood for what was right. Who can fully understand a marine, but a marine?  Perhaps a soldier could, but never fully.  A marine are a breed apart.  That's why their very job is to be where the fewest men stand the biggest chance of dying.  They say, 'I'll go first'.  Did you get that?  The marine died first, as marines always do.In short, don't just watch this movie.  But, watch it over, over, and over. Pay attention to the beautiful innuendos.  Perhaps, watch it with the soldier of your choice and ask if you don't understand.  Even the worst soldier loves his country.  It's why he became a soldier in the first place. God knows that McDonalds pays a better starting wage than a private gets in the U.S. Marines, Army, Navy, Coast Guard, National Guard, or Air Force airman. And if they joined because McDonalds wouldn't hire them, they won't make it out of basic.Soldiers don't become soldiers unless other soldiers say they are. The reasons there are military prisons is because only soldiers can say that you are not behaving like a soldier should.  And only soldiers are allowed to punish you.  This movie is about the RIGHT of being a soldier.  Did you get the part about the salute?  The warden wasn't a real soldier.  And the other real soldiers let him know it and relieved him of his command.This movie was about soldiers without the 'glory' of the battlefield.  It was about the perfection of the imperfect.  It was about imperfect soldiers, but soldier's none-the-less.  This movie explained that being a soldier is being about risking your very life for what is right.  And right doesn't change because a jury of your peers has somewhere said you made a very bad mistake. Watch this movie again.  "},{"Title":"One Bogus Flick","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie(?) has to rate as one of the most bogus movies ever made regarding the military, and it's prisoners.Robert Redford appeared to be sleep walking throughout and his personna of a 3 star general was, to say, the worst I have ever seen.The entire premise was bogus, the colonel commanding the stockade was well performed, as I can see nothing wrong with the execution of his duties.The portrayal of the inmates was ludicrous, as it appeared they were segregated by race and nationality.This movie is as bad as was the Dirty Dozen. "},{"Title":"This movie shouldn't have been made...","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While reading the other comments I must say this is NOT the best pick of the year. This is the worst thing since Crocodile Dundee in LA. There are more clichés in this movie then in a Jerry Bruckheimer movie. You'll know what I'm talking about if you saw this movie. Although I wouldn't even recommend this movie to people in a coma. The movie has all the clichés of a jail movie, this time they didn't choose for the usual escape story but more in the vein of that other cliché movie Lock Up, the similarities are there. It's sad that in his old days Robert Redford is connected to this poorly project. If you wanna see a good Jail movie go rent Brubaker, also with Redford but a thousand times better. Avoid this movie at all costs if you have at least one tenth of a brain. "},{"Title":"well worth the money","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one movie I would have paid the $8 to see. While watching this movie I as well as the audience could not help but cheer.  The Last Castle captivates the audience and you feel like you are in on the fight also. To walk out at the end and see all of the people applauding the movie was amassing it well deserves the 10 I gave "},{"Title":"You have to be American to stomach this movie.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is exactly the kind of film I dismiss without a second thought when it comes out. Unfortunately, I was forced to sit through this one strapped to a plane seat. The nationalist fervor this movie is meant to invoke is about as subtle as a Nazi propaganda film. It starts and ends with a billowing American flag. And all throughout it seems to chant the glories of the US military. Ra ra ra! Well, only an American could begin to stomach this crap. Anyone honest enough to call a military propaganda film a military propaganda film will be nauseated. On technical merits, the film is a flawless rendering of classic Hollywood narrative. In many ways it is a well made film, but one whose underlying nationalistic theme is so revolting that only a true hypocrite could feel good viewing it. "},{"Title":"A rotten movie, a very sad commentary at where Redford is now.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This a truly dire film. A potentially interesting story about how a tarnished war hero allows his self-serving ambition to over-ride his duty to his fellow-prisoners is swamped by semi-fascist drivel about true heroism and the cult of the warrior, all ending in a ghastly (US) flag-waving finale. Redford seems to have literally lost the plot with this one. He looks awful, all his gestures are false and shallow, and the Hollywood star power - which may have perverted the story-line into making his character the great, irreproachable hero - is non-existent. A bizarre little scene with a bitter daughter hardly redresses the problem. And the sound-mix is fantastically bad!    "},{"Title":"exciting, thoughtful action drama","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I almost did not watch this movie after reading the reviews, but since I had it I threw it in the DVD player and tried the first ten minutes, I was captured by the story, the action, and the outstanding acting. The movie holds your attention and controls your feelings right to the end.Watching this movie is like reading a good book that you can't put down.This movie should not be compared to others , be cause it stands on its own and we are not comparing apples to oranges. There are always going to be better movies, different type of movies and we are all different in our likes and dislikes. There is no comedy, and the actors take this picture and the thoughts it invokes serious. I normally like a movie to be short and to the point, but there was too much to tell in this story. You get to know the characters without it being boring, the movie moves along at a fantastic pace and holds the viewers attention through the entire story. "},{"Title":"Exhilerating","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely one of my top prison movie choices.  Motivational and moral. Robert Redford played the part of an honest offender, honest about being an offender that is.  A must see for those of you who like prison or military oriented movies. "},{"Title":"Redford, Gandolfini Shine","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Prison movies can get a little depressing for me after awhile, but this is one of the best I've seen because the two lead actors, Robert Redford and James Gandolfini, are fascinating. I also liked this because the characters were a bit softer than in most prison movies, the language more tolerable and the story kept my rapt attention for the two-plus hours.The only fault I can find with it is the normal credibility where people should have been shot but all the bullets miss, of course. That happens mainly to Mark Ruffalo's character. Also, I was surprised at Delroy Lindo being listed pretty high in the credits but he had very little screen time. Overall, thanks to the acting this is a solid film and recommended. "}{"Title":"A general sent to prison puts the pride back into the prisoners.","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film; i thought was great. The film is about a General who is sent to prison(only for u.s army though) and he puts the mens pride back into them and he wants to cause the prison to lose control to get rid of the man in charge. It had tense moments between characters and you was wondering what will happen next which every film should aim to do, this film did it well. It was action packed and very well planned out, characters were very good at their roles and created the right atmosphere for the scene. I would say that it is one of few films i would recommend someone to watch. So if you get the chance too, watch this film, its a must see. "},{"Title":"Abuse of Power","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Despite the technical mistakes others have listed that bothered them, I liked this movie. Liked isn't the best way to describe it...the movie's story is too disturbing and sad to be liked. But, it was well made. The characters are clear and understood. I disagree that you can't have a prison movie, without thinking about Shawshank..this is a military prison...different in tone. I was reminded of one of Robert Redford's friends and fellow actors though....Paul Newman in Cool Hand Luke. The cruelty, the abusive power, the trapped and overwhelming feeling of giving up in the prisoners. That seemed more comparable in story. Broke my heart about the character Aguilar. I knew it would happen..kind of like when a dog is shown in a movie and about 90% of the time, the dog is killed/dies or is hurt. Just knew something was going to happen to him...too vulnerable and out of place in the prison. Thanks and hope you liked the movie. "},{"Title":"Good prison thriller","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Recap A convicted but not disgraced general is sent to a military prison to serve his sentence. His only wish to do his time, ten years, and then go home. But he finds the warden plays by his own rules to keep his inmates in check. Inmates are given punishments that are in violence of the rules, at best, and unfortunate inmates suffer fatal accidents. To have the warden removed the general must unite his divided inmates to an army capable of taking the prison.Comments Pretty standard prison movie were a battle of mind and body breaks out between an evil warden and a leader in the inmate community. This time it just happen to be in a military prison, with one being a decorated general.It is not very innovative, keeping to a proved recipe. You almost know what you will get at the start of the movie, and I wasn't disappointed. It escalated the conflict slowly but steadily to a great final battle, a good climax. In this way it kept me interested all the way, there was enough suspense all the way.What it didn't use or do, unfortunately, was to use or evolve the unique story of the inmates being in the military. General Irwin's crime was kept secret at first, but that was discarded a little easily halfway in. It could have been interesting to evolve that story, to give the story an edge from the general's background. Something that made him fight, or something that might be a weakness to exploit. Not just discarded. Or could the analogy with the chess game be evolved more? What this movie lacked was the depth of the characters. It hinted at it, in some cases it actually introduced a possible sub-story, but never evolved any of them later.Still it was a little better than I expected. It was quite good for an evening in the sofa. But you might be a little interested in the military and the brotherhood that evolves in a group under pressure to really enjoy it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Exciting prison flick","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" LAST CASTLE involves a cat-and-mouse game between a sadistic warden (Gandolfini) and a disgraced general (Robert Redford, who at 65 seems a bit old for the role). Redford's quiet character decides he doesn't like what he sees going on in this prison, and decides to do something about it. While the story takes place on only a couple of sets, the film does not want for lots of action, general mayhem and even the occasional murder. Redford is OK for being Redford (which means he doesn't have to do much acting) and Gandolfini is convincing as a bully who is losing his grip. Mark Ruffalo costars as a reluctant hero. The second half actually veers off into THE STING territory. Watch it and you will see what I mean. This is one of those movies, like THE GREEN MILE and THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION, that you can watch more than once. "},{"Title":"Great movie but too imaginary","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story is about a three-star general being sent to prison because a mission went wrong in Vietnam, and he was charged for his eight men's death. The story is also about a warden vs. prisoner since the three-star general had unwisely mocked the warden by stating that whoever collects any warfare merchandise has never set foot on the battlefield; which I never knew why the general would take the time to say that IN THE WARDEN'S OFFICE! Therefore, the clash between the two begins. SPOILER Positive I literally liked the way how the director portrayed the general's role by inspiring most of his inmates especially the stuttering prisoner; the general defended Aguilar (the stuttering prisoner)because it was illicit to salute to another prisoner. What really grabbed my attention was the ending Redford (the three-star general) has formed a maneuver to overthrow the prison. The warden (who is also the lead cast in the Sapranos) played his part very well.Negative Several parts couldn't be real unless the guards were this ignorant. Number one, a prisoner who was an ex-drill sergeant started shouting to the general prisoners to stand in formation OUTSIDE AT THE OPEN FIELD WHERE THE WARDEN AND THE REST OF THE GUARDS COULD SEE. Even Redford started making a speech out loud! Then the prisoners started to sing the song The Shores of Tripoly. Give me a break! I am still wondering why the general would insult the warden, although the warden was beneficially treating the general. The movie is good and the ending twist is something to wait for. I hope you guys take the chance to watch it, but ignore some of the imaginary plot. After all, it is a movie and movies tend to play with the laws of reality. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes life brings you pleasant surprises and this movie is one of them. I was channel surfing when I happened to find this movie which immediately caught my interest. Two men are involved in a power struggle over control of a prison. One has authority of office, the other has the loyalty the rank and file. This movie features one of Robert Redford's better performances. His performance as an ex-Army general who is stripped of all the trappings of command but retains his dignity is excellent. James Gandolfino's performance as a cunning and sadistic Army colonel in charge of a military stockade is equally powerful. This is a good movie. "},{"Title":"In my Personal Top 5 for certain = ) !","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay, I have a few things to mention... The first beingEveryone who posts something bad about this movie, or rates it below 9 has obviously not given the movie much thought. This is a moving story about, above all, Respect. I think the main issue people have is 'prisoners don't care about anything' This is not true to this film. They are in a Military Prison. This is because they came from the military! Hence they have the highest respect for rank and authority than you or I could ever have. Sit down and just WATCH the movie. Intently. You will not be disappointed.Before giving into all of the (no clue where these come from) negative reviews, give the film a chance. After just watching this movie the first time Today, Jan17/07, I have clearly decided that this is one of the BEST MOVIES I HAVE SEEN for ages. I strongly encourage all of you out there, who's hearts aren't made of stone, to watch this movie as soon as possible. "},{"Title":"A parable!","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, so this movie is not so real, but if ever you believed that reality TV is anything resembling true events then you are living in a very sad planet. The Last Castle is a parable of sorts, not to be taken literally. What it points at is a simple morality. Unlawful orders are to be disobeyed. Whether they come from the Boss, the Lawmaker or the President. In this morality play, albeit its inherent  entertainment value, there is also a valid exercise in wishful thinking. It is a dream about courage; the kind of courage that refuses to follow the dictates of an immoral bloodthirsty authority, be it boss, lawmaker and, as the final shot of the american flag seems to indicate, a president. See it from this perspective and the film attains a totally new reson d'etre, full of symbolism and rallying cries. The flag has to be taken back and flown in freedom, at whatever costs. "},{"Title":"A parable!","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, so this movie is not so real, but if ever you believed that reality TV is anything resembling true events then you are living in a very sad planet. The Last Castle is a parable of sorts, not to be taken literally. What it points at is a simple morality. Unlawful orders are to be disobeyed. Whether they come from the Boss, the Lawmaker or the President. In this morality play, albeit its inherent  entertainment value, there is also a valid exercise in wishful thinking. It is a dream about courage; the kind of courage that refuses to follow the dictates of an immoral bloodthirsty authority, be it boss, lawmaker and, as the final shot of the american flag seems to indicate, a president. See it from this perspective and the film attains a totally new reson d'etre, full of symbolism and rallying cries. The flag has to be taken back and flown in freedom, at whatever costs. "},{"Title":"Excellent entertainment with good performances all round and an exciting and thrilling script.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Being an avid fan of the Sopranos, and seeing some of James Gandolfini's other films, I had thought his character was pretty much the same film to film. How wrong I was when I saw this portrayal of such a weak, jealous and petty man. Totally lacking the strength and self-belief of the other characters he has played in his career. Robert Redford provides a strong and convincing portrayal. The script is strong, and provides a great amount of excitement without too much hype and over the top action. In fact the scenes of the `riot' show the tactics of the battling commanders so well, it's both exciting and interesting to see how the soldiers behave, and seems almost believable. For me, the most interesting part of this movie is the interaction between the two commanders, how the animosity begins, how it grows, and each ones move in the battle. Overall, a well scripted film with a couple of really good performances. "}{"Title":"Okay, So is this Robert's Cool Hand Luke?","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie, and I must admit that I liked it. It had an well played plot and excellent cast. I've always been a James Gandolfini fan, so that for me was a treat. Robert Redford played an excellent role, however, I couldn't help but see similarities to Cool Hand Luke, and wondered if this was Robert's attempt at that venue.Just one man's opinion. Keith. "},{"Title":"Maybe the producers of this movie should have been behind bars rather than the cast...","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think this movie's story, plot, dialog, and casting are locked up in prison somewhere waiting to be released by a production team with the key to making a good prison movie. And, could that key be that the prisoners want to escape - not to take over?             "},{"Title":"A study on power and authority from the bottom up","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Like others I saw this almost by chance and with low expectations - yet another prison (and military prison at that!) movie.  I found a very interesting treatment of what power is all about, in the well- opposed characters of Redford (the disgraced general) and Gandolfini (the warden -thus mediocre- colonel).  At the outset he former is and has nothing (after the suspension of disbelief that an actual high-ranking, highly decorated officer would be sent to prison via court martial) - just another convicted prisoner. The latter has all the elements of power his command affords him. And yet the ex-general starts gaining authority, and power, while the warden starts losing them there is a quality to understanding authority, and especially, people, that the ex-general has in spades, and the bureaucracy-minded colonel does not even fathom.  Definitely not a chick-flick, but with much broader appeal than one would expect given the billing.   "},{"Title":"Rousing movie","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  **Spoiler alert** Okay, so this movie isn't realistic (why should it be?) and it's predictable (so what?), but it sure was fun to watch.  We sat on the edges of our seats watching the DVD, and nobody wanted to pause it long enough to get refreshments or use the bathroom, because we were all caught up in the action.  It was a game of war strategy and a game of chess strategy.  Redford was thoroughly enjoyable.  Toward the end of the movie we were all yelling and cheering, as well as being sad at the demise of the general, though the ending was fitting, under the circumstances.  THAT is what makes a movie worth watching.  It aroused many good feelings, satisfied needs (to see the bad guy punished), and made us all glue ourselves to the screen and cheer. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A very good Original movie","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  No other movie can be compared to The Last Castle. I thought it was an excellent movie and It had all the ingredients that is necassary to call a movie excellent. Of course the acting. Phenomenal performace by Robert Redford, one of the best actors out there, although im not a huge fan. James Gandolfini shocked me in this movie. He was Great!! perfect man for the part. Great Direction by Lurie as well.  This movie didnt bore me at all, and it kept me on the edge of my seat for 2 hrs. Dont sleep on this movie, its worth the 20.00 dollars !! *** stars!!  "},{"Title":"must see movie!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Funny story about this film, I am not a fan of prison movies nor Robert Redford, in fact I don't like him that much at all.. It's something about his voice, I don't know, But this movie was on Pay Per View, and I just happen to catch most of it, when it ended, I watched it again, and then again.. The story line people can say is unoriginal, but like music, there really isn't much out there that hasn't been done before.. And when it comes to Prison, or war movies, there is only so much you can do.. So it is stupid to call it unoriginal.. This movie is both Prison, and War at the same time.. Unrealistic, you could say, if you look past certain things, imagine a whole prison filled with nothing but War hero's, and people that fought and lived in the armed forces.. Than you have the guards that had never fought anywhere out side of the Prison... The prisoners thought like they were at war, and the guards thought like they were guards,, So it is very possible for the soldiers in the prison to take the prison over.. No movie ever made was 100% true to life, so deal with it.. That is why it is a movie.. For the movie that it is, it was a great movie to watch. And I would recommend it to any one that will watch it as a movie, and not try to figure out what it reminds them of, cause then you miss the movie at hand..  "},{"Title":"Borderline 6 or 7","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Redford is a leftwinger on the political scene, and one sees this with his movie.  Even with differnt political views on some issues I respect Redford, he is my kind of leftwinger.  This story is about people, or individuals.  They maybe criminal, but he looks at people character or lack of, and thats what counts.  I believe the jail would be meaner than protrayed in this film. The story pits the taking of a castle, and show the differnce between those who can lead, and other who should not. "},{"Title":"better than I expected - and I expected a good film...","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  I think you have to suspend a little bit of disbelief because some of the scenarios during the prison uprising tend to be a little farfetched, but all in all, a good flick.  Characters are believable. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE ROCKS!!!!!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this film on DVD last night, and I have to say that it is the best film that I have seen in the last few months.  Redford gives a stellar performance, as expected, as does Gandolfini, and the rest of the cast. The storyline is fantastic, and will keep you riveted from beginning to end.  I plan on purchasing the DVD this afternoon. "},{"Title":"WOW !!!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just got to say that this might be the best movie, i ever seen with Robert Redford !! You really see him in a picture here that just show you all the potential he has. Furthermore i must say that this movie will not make you leave you farvoriet chair for just a moment, so make sure that you are all ready with the Soda and Chips before you start. My Conclusion must be that this is defently the best movies i have seen this year, So if you haven´t seen it yet, don´t waste your time here anymore, GO GET IT !!!! "}{"Title":"this film deserves a salute","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this film kicked ass, im not sure my girlfriend liked it much but all the way through it i was drueling, i wanted more! the film is about 2 hours 15, which is not too long. it was damn good,especially the guy who gave his life for the wall, that scene almost had me crying. at the end of this film i felt like standing up infront of all the 15 yr olds (im only 12 but i got in) and saluting. the film deserves it. 8/10 maybe more and im SURELY gona buy this on dvd or video when it comes out. *salute*  "},{"Title":"Wow, Rob is smart.","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I only rented this film because Robert Redford is appealing. But it turned out to be quite good. Although it has a lot of violence and swearing, the bottom line is justice, and Robert Redford! It's one of those movies where the noble prisoner attempts to get justice on a bad prison owner. It is very enjoyable. Then again, it is Robert Redford and he is never boring.  "},{"Title":"The Lego Castle","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well,Here we go again, Hollywood and its twisted sense of justice and morality...The Last Castle could've been interesting, but the plot/script is contrived, derivative and clichéd. The end result is another tedious prison movie where the bad guys (prisoners, criminals, rapists, killers, drug dealers, violent characters, etc.) redeem themselves and reach salvation , while the warden (a decent guy doing his job)is a psychotic and sadistic underachiever. Yeah... From watching movies like that one gets to the conclusion that the solution to all social problems is to let free all sociopaths and criminals and lock behind bars the decent hard-working folks. Go figure....After 45 minutes I had to fast forward to the very predictable end... when the bad guys prevail and law and order in thrown into a ditch.It is not worth your time. "},{"Title":"6,4 out of 10??","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I entered the page for this movie, just for fun since I've already watched it, I saw that the rating was 6,4 out of 10??? This movie is one of the best I've ever seen, worthy 10 for sure!! I was so shocked, I had to become a member to make this comment... The plot is great, and the actors are also very good! So many movies are made today, and there are so many bad movies, but not this one...One of the things that I look for in a great movie, is the beginning and the end; and a better beginning than this movie, one would have to look long for... You tell your men You're soldiers and that's our flag. You tell them nobody takes our flag... Now you got yourself a castle. The end is also perfect, but since i hope that those who read this will watch the movie, I won't reveal it...;) Unlike a lot of other movies, this one has a soul, and above all; a meaning... That is so rare nowadays, that you have to watch this movie...;) I hope this comment is useful to you, and that you decide to watch the movie after reading it;) "},{"Title":"All men are just a piece of a great chess set.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Powerful impact drama directed by Rod Lurie. A distinguished three-star general(Robert Redford)is convicted of following orders and jailed in a maximum security military prison where he butts heads with the sadistic warden(James Gandolfini). Action is slow to build up steam and then hell breaks lose when the former general leads the prison population into taking control of the prison. Other notable cast members Mark Ruffalo, Steve Burton, Clifton Collins Jr. and George W. Scott. Very easy to take up sides at the get go. Intense movie! "},{"Title":"Sundance Kid Takes on Tony Soprano","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE LAST CASTLE (2001) *** Robert Redford, James Gandolfini, Mark Ruffalo, Delroy Lindo, Steve Burton, Paul Calderon, Frank Military, Robin Wright Penn. (Dir Rod Lurie)  Brubaker meets Cool Hand Luke via The Shawshank Redemption  could have been the pitch for this entertaining crowd pleaser about a disgraced career Army general (Redford) arriving at a military prison led by its sadistic, complexed warden (Gandolfini in a many shaded, canny turn) coming to loggerheads when the inmates start wising up and joining up for one final fight for freedom their own.   Pyrotechnics fly as does credibility at times yet it is truly engaging to watch a veteran matinee idol Redford  age nicely and go toe-to-toe with the always watchable Gandolfini in an acting pas de deux.  "},{"Title":"A Great Duel Between Two Wonderful Actors","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Movies about prison are attractive most of the time. However, this one is above the average and deals with an American military prison. Lt. Gen. Eugene Irwin (Robert Redford) is a highly decorated general that after a martial court is convicted to ten years in a military prison. The principal is Col. Winter (the great actor James Gandolfini), a military that has never participate of a combat. He rules the prison as if he were in a war, where the prisoners are the enemies. The presence and the leadership of Irwin will make Col. Winter feels threatened. The duel between them will be great. Watching this battle is worthwhile. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Última Fortaleza (The Last Fortress) "},{"Title":"The Last Castle","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had heard one or two people say that this is a really good film, so I tried it for myself. Basically three star Lt. Gen. Eugene Irwin (Robert Redford) has been court-martialled for the death of eight soldiers and sentenced to a maximum security military prison run by warden Col. Winter (The Sopranos' James Gandolfini). In this prison there is discipline and routine, but no ranking or saluting, and after a little while Irwin can see there is unjust treatment of the prisoners. At first, Winter admired Irwin, but he can see he is planning some kind of confrontation with the help of the inmates, turning into an army. After a quick chat with fellow soldier and old friend Gen. James 'Jim' Wheeler (Delroy Lindo), Irwin is cleared of being insane, but of course, he does some pretty mad plans ahead. A plan to take over the prison is formed, and the only one letting Winter know the details (by blackmail) is inmate Clifford Yates (Mark Ruffalo). So the prisoners led by Irwin attacking the key parts to the prison with all weapons they could get their hands on, in order to take it over and raise the American flag upside down, the sign for distress. Also starring Clifton Collins Jr. as Cpl. Ramon Aguilar, Steve Burton as Capt. Peretz, Paul Calderon as Sgt. Maj. Dellwo, Samuel Ball as Duffy and Robin Wright Penn as Rosalie Irwin. Redford, looking his age, provides a pretty cool leading role, with Gandolfini creating a very good supporting villainous role, with some exciting moments, particularly in the last twenty or so minutes, it is a worthwhile prison thriller. Robert Redford was number 61 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Good! "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever. Period.","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The title says it all, really.American-o-patriotic & brainless. Stereotypic & inaccurate. An assault on the senses it really treats you as a moron. Not a single scene is believable. Exaggerated. The acting is awful & over-the-top. I am really socked that Redford participated in such a bad movie decay must be unavoidable for all the big stars, as my experience can tell.There is really no point in the plot. The moral lessons are childish and the end makes you think what was all this fuss about? Was all this demolition and cost in lives worth anything? At all? Probably the worst characteristic is that the scenes are illogical and inconsequential continuity is lost within seconds.Avoid at all costs. Worst movie ever. Period. "}]