[{"Title":"hysterically funny","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I only watched this because I was intrigued by the title and when I read the description in the online tv listings it just said, temp job becomes permanent, and I wanted to see how you could get a movie out of that.  Anyway, this film is absolutely wonderful, laugh out loud funny throughout.  It's based on a monologue by Josh Kornbluth, parts of which are included, and that's probably the weakest part of the movie, since while it probably worked great with an audience some of it seems overly silly and frenetic without a live audience laughing.  But most of it is utterly amazing, especially for us ex temps who loved Clockwatchers, and there are some wonderful performances, most notably Helen Shumaker as a Nurse Ratchet-style head secretary and Warren Keith as Josh's low-key boss.  Well worth seeing, I gave it 8/10 in the vote. "},{"Title":"Weird, funny, fresh.  I loved it!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While this film has its moments of corporate spoof, I wouldn't say that's its main thrust.  Haiku Tunnel reminds me more of The Critic, in that it seems to exist in its own universe.  The cleverness of the writing brought me right into that universe, all the while knowing that the very surreal atmosphere in this guy's world was a near guarantee that everything would turn out okay.  After a stressful work week myself, this was the perfect relief.  I would say I recommend this to the whole wide world, but judging from the other reviews here that would be silly.  Some folks got into the humor, some did not.  I must say I'm getting close to NOT reading the reviews of movies I loved, because the reviews are tending towards cruel.  Haiku Tunnel does not deserve such treatment.  And please, if you don't bother to watch a film all the way through, why bother reviewing it at all?  I'm mystified.Go with your instinct here, folks.  It's obviously not for everyone, but I gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"Well done, despite critical reviews...","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let me start by saying I have very little in common with a law temp.This movie cannot be likened to Office Space except for in the fact that it deals with typical corporate America.I see complaints that this movie is an inside joke, only understandable by certain people, etc... etc...It's a really well done description of an experience, it's funny, and it describes with great accuracy the void experienced when life, in general sucks...The well done monologue regarding his love for his own bed...  his reaction upon meeting with the bed...  his diversion from actual work to mess around writing his own novel rather than doing his work...  his delaying of the easy work for gaps in the hard work... and various other details... the interaction with the guard and attempt to fast-talk his way into the building... all of these little parts are done so well and each one describes a flawed piece of the American workplace...  with a dash of humor, this movie is extremely well done and something I think everyone should at least watch.The negative reviews I read cast a dark shadow over my appreciation for the rest of the movie watching crowd... if you don't work as part of an office, you should most certainly NOT write a review for this... and if you work in an office and you wrote a bad review for this movie... maybe you should watch it again and realize which putz in the movie most accurately represents you, and then change your management style to more adequately fit your employees...I think the accuracy of this film stabs manager-types in the chest with their own inadequacy and lack of insight, and appeals to those who work under them by illuminating the cycle of depression and cynicism the office instills.... and I think this was the goal of the movie, as well as drawing a few laughs.Let me conclude by saying that this movie is NOT office space... it has very little to do with it.  Office space is very 1 dimensional and thus more humorous... dealing with the utter lack of importance most of our work seems to have behind it (Filing those reports, using the right header) while this movie approaches the feeling of dread (the haiku tunnel itself) we face when given too much lattitude in pointless work after long periods of time, and the struggle to fit in with a model of business partially unfamiliar with what we do (working at S&M as a perm rather than temp, doing more than word processing)...    While not a world apart from Office Space, it is in fact more complex, more telling, less hollywood, and slightly less funny than it's counterpart. "},{"Title":"Close enough to real life to accent the absurdity","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Anyone who has worked in a corporate office will recognize characters and events in this movie which will make you laugh out loud and wince at the same time. For example there's a one-day orientation class which is totally mind numbing. This movie also contains the best depiction yet of SysAdmin support for the computers, although it is only in two brief scenes. As an IT support professional, I'd like all my users to watch this movie just for these two scenes. The same weekend, I watched Way Downtown which makes similar points about the drudgery of office work, but had far fewer laugh-out-loud moments. I've never worked as a temp, but I've had several temps work on my team and have observed the changes in attitude and behavior that occur when one of them makes the transition to perm and Josh compresses that evolution into just his first week of work. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A laugh a minute. This movie rules!","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't understand the other rating; this movie is excellent.All the role types that the characters have are as funny as those role types get, and they are are just adorable. The actors are in 100% stand-up comic imitation mode the whole time, and you wind up loving them all. One character, Marlena, who has a very stoic nature, is always accompanied by the sound of wind blowing desolately. Another, Mindy, is the classic over the top sweetness-and-pie secretary who gets a little out of control once she's had a few drinks after work. The main character, Josh, is actually one of my least favorite, but he's very appropriate and necessary for the whole theme of the movie, which is his fear of commitment in going from temp to perm. The concept is frighteningly accurate for anyone who has ever worked in the law industry (at least in the United States, I can't speak for elsewhere) and has ever felt a measure of trepidation at committing to things. But you needn't have worked in law to be able to relate. Virtually anyone with half a brain who's ever had an office job can relate to this movie.The flow of the movie is wisely done and finishes with all loose ends concisely and pleasingly tied up.The soundtrack comprises a variety of independent punk rock and other stuff, all of which I enjoyed very much, and it is very difficult to please me musically right off the bat.I honestly cannot understand why anyone might hate this movie, let alone walk out on it! It's accurate, fun, hilarious, well-timed, has a great soundtrack, good and funny plot, very appropriate title...If your taste in comedies goes beyond the Something About Mary genre, definitely see Haiku Tunnel. "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud in times of despair amd follow Josh to freedom.","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Haiku Tunnel was scheduled for its premier screening the weekend just after 9/11, the disaster. What unfortunate timing for this creative existential joy. The San Francisco theatre was packed and the audience laughed out loud with release and pleasure in protagonist Kornbluth's efforts to get by in his temp work under the evil eye of The Lawyer boss.With a little help - and distraction - from his friends, Josh succeeds in satisfying our urge to cheer for the underdog while we laugh and groan at his self-defeating tactics to be creative in spite of the temp's office routine. This is also one of the funniest representations of the stereotypical lawyer as evil, secretary pool people as party pals, and the artist must create or implode - which ultimately challenges every existential angst Kirkegaard et al could have  "},{"Title":"A mixed bag, but a unique one at that","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Based on his theatrical monologue, Josh Kornbluth stars, writes and directs this office comedy that has an uncannily offbeat feel for character and dialogue, but succumbs to some degree to stupid, if not lazy, digressions. When the pages to a lost document begin speaking like a grateful child to the porcine procrastinator, well, sorry, but you have to do better than that. He is a skilled writer, however, and his feel for the mundane repetitions of office life are disarming and quite hilarious. As an actor, he has a built-in series of facial expressions that effectively substitute for emoting or playing a character. In the spirit of Peter Gibbons (Office Space), his malaise and utter disinterest in all things work-related becomes a sort of appealing ethos long live the defiant slacker. "},{"Title":"two definitions of mugging","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There's bug-eyed mugging, as in what Josh Kornbluth does a little too much in this film. And then there's the brutal mugging that this film is receiving here in IMDB comments. Ouch.Much of the latter seems to stem around some resentment regarding this film and Office Space. I've not seen the latter yet, but it seems to me Haiku Tunnel is a total ripoff of Magnolia.Kidding...kidding. That's my own little inside joke.As for the jokes in here, I guess they might be somewhat inside. But I think if you've ever felt a bit like a stow-away on a job, you could connect with some of the alienation that Josh pokes fun at. All of the other characters here really are just foils for Josh, that might bug some folks.Generally I found the amateurish charm to work here. I love catalog humor, and we get some of that early on in regards to types of fellow temps and types of lawyers. Quick flicks through stereotypes work for me usually. The film does slow down (as almost all comedies do) towards the end, when the plot piper must be paid.Along those lines, in a bad horror film, I often will want to yell at the screen Call the cops...NOW! During this film, you will likely reach a point, as my wife and I did, where you will want to scream, Mail the damned letters...NOW! But we both did laugh throughout this. She especially loved the scene where Josh's boss won't let him quit, especially during Josh's litany of reasons that he is a bad seed.But why do so many people, so strongly dislike this film?If I squint my memory, I can sort of reimagine Kornbluth as Garfield (the cat, not the president). Maybe that is why some folks find him so patently unfunny. Just thinking about a punchline involving Lasagna and that comic strip sets my blood to boiling. Could that be it?Or maybe some of the smirks that Kornbluth lobs towards the camera have the effect on others that a laugh track has on me. This does have a bit of a sitcom feel, but at least it isn't dragged out over 100 episodes. And there are some unique idiosyncratic moments here.Or perhaps some folks need to be able to identify with the main character in a comedy, and Josh comes across with a little too much self-confidence and well, a little too much self. It's okay for Bill Murray to have too much of the former, just like it's okay for Chris Farley to have too much of the latter. But put them in one body, and look out?I don't know what it is. But evidently half of you out there really shouldn't see this film. Not even on cable, late at night. I decided to watch this after seeing the trailer along time ago, so maybe look at that first? Or cross-check my other reviews...I recommend this one with a 7/10PS You can fault Kornbluth's sense of humor, but certainly not his taste in music! Great songs through-out.  "},{"Title":"Required watching for office & temp workers","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Haiku Tunnel is easily as good as that other movie about working in an office Office Space. Haiku Tunnel is quirky, funny, offbeat, clever, and well written, cast, and acted (did I say I liked this film?). I'm not a professional movie critic, so I see no need to think up something negative to add. If you've ever worked in an office or worked as a temp, you simply must watch this movie.There's a little something for everyone, the scary office manager, the Attorney/boss who's the prince of darkness, the office worker buddies, including the gay dude who's always reading Soldier of Fortune magazine. Also, look for the phone conversation with the ex-secretary and decide which of Alfred Hitchcock's movies this scene might be an homage to.Kudos to Mr. Kornbluth, wherever you are. I hope you are writing more scripts; would love to see more of your work. "},{"Title":"Adjust Your Expectations","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was channel surfing a few months ago and I came upon this film. I was intrigued by the synopsis so I recorded it and late last night I finally watched it. My first thought, confirmed upon reading the other reviews was this is a love it or hate it movie. I will refrain from offering many plot details since most reviews have already covered them.Comparisons to Office Space are inevitable but totally unfounded. It's unrealistic to expect the two movies to be similar just because they are both set in an office. Office Space is clearly about the unfulfilling life of working in an office. The mundane pattern of performing the same routine tasks and seeing nothing in return but a paycheck. Being a cog in the machine. I'm a fan of Office Space but like most mainstream comedies it's a mindless work that aims for the lowest common denominator. With Office Space what you see is what you get. This is not the case with Haiku Tunnel. Like most great stories there is a plot on the surface but the real story lies beneath. On the surface Haiku Tunnel is a movie about the tedious life of working in an office, specifically viewed through the eyes of Josh Kornbluth, a man who works for a temp agency. If someone watched the film to follow the plot and see what happened next I can see why they hated it. It's my opinion that the people who expected this movie to be like Office Space were thoroughly disappointed and gave the film a poor review. Although there is a plot this is not a plot driven movie. That's where it differs from Office Space.Haiku Tunnel is a film about a man's struggle to find his place in the world. He is trying to find balance in his life and is uncertain about just about everything, mainly his inability to commit. Once Josh gets to a point where he disconnects from other people as much as humanly possible he finds he is miserable. Yet when he gets the chance to commit to anything he either refuses or does so kicking and screaming. Such is the case when he sabotages himself by not completing the task he is assigned once he is talked into becoming a permanent employee. Josh clearly has an internal conflict. On one level he wants to be accepted and be part of something. He wants stability and human interaction. But on another level part of him realizes with this comes responsibility and he is terrified by the idea of taking on responsibility. He's fighting the very thought of becoming a cog in the machine. This transcends his job and describes his life as a whole. He has spent his whole life wandering aimlessly from one thing to the next managing to avoid taking on any significant responsibility. His inability to complete the simple task at work can be taken as a microcosm of his life as a whole. It can be argued that his novel is just a bigger task that is destined to never be completed. By having his novel to fall back on Josh can avoid having a life by continuously writing while avoiding any hint of a life. Thus the office becomes an analogy for life itself and the film asks some significant questions. What is your objective in life? What is your role in society? Do you aspire to accomplish things or are you content just being? What about the world frightens you? Why? What can you do about it? Do you care? I found the plot on the surface to be entertaining and the characters to be funny and interesting. There is something both endearing and terrifying about Josh Kornbluth. Throughout the film I wasn't really sure if I wanted him to succeed. I'm still not sure if I like him. And I like that. It's an added challenge the film provides. In order to truly appreciate this film you don't have to have experience working in an office environment. What it takes to appreciate this film is a strong degree of empathy. The ability to put yourself in Josh's shoes, both on a professional and personal level and contemplate the issues he is dealing with. If you are able to do that I feel you will enjoy this movie. However, if you're looking to sit back, turn off your brain and laugh out loud watch Office Space. Either way you can't go wrong. "}{"Title":"Better than Office Space","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I recently caught this movie playing on the Independent Movie channel. I rarely comment on movies but found this one to be quite inventive and humorous. The characters were well developed and were close to what you would expect to find in almost any office. In comparison to that other office based comedy, Office Space, this one is actually worth watching. I was pleasantly surprised to have run across such a gem like this.I am pleased to recommend this movie for someone looking for something a bit unconventional. There has not been a couple of brothers like the Kornbluth's since the Coens. If Haiku Tunnel is any indication, they will be bringing us great things to see for a long, long time. "},{"Title":"If you really are a secretary","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having been a temp and a secretary, I loved this movie because I felt it was pretty true to the ridiculous nature of office work. Obviously, it was ostentatious, but that's the kind of movie it is - if you're not into melodrama, you'll only be annoyed. If you did a movie about office work that wasn't melodramatic, you'd fall asleep; Look at Office Space. I felt like I really kind of identified with Josh, but I guess I'm just a big nerd. The fact that it didn't really have a story is a tribute to temping - you never really get anywhere. Even when you go perm those secretary jobs are useless, you don't get anywhere until you leave that type of employment. Look at Marlina, the head secretary, even she hadn't gotten anywhere. Anyway, I felt like it was perfect for anyone who's ever been there. I think we've all had upper management we thought was the Prince of Darkness Himself, or icy supervisors with no pulse. "},{"Title":"Eerily Realistic","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was really surprised by this movie. It has so much heart, so much cleverness (San Franc-Lisco?) and is so much like what being a temp can feel like. I really relate to Josh's work style when on a temp job -- as does any honest temp... the freaky ex coworkers who call, the weird office manager and the scary boss who has no clue. Imagine my surprise when two weeks after seeing this film, I went on a temp assignment and was given 14 letters to send out; for various reasons I had to delay sending them until I got another form in the mail... eerie. A brilliant gem for any office worker, or someone who loves one. "},{"Title":"funny quote","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I walked into Jacks office this morning, and I said, Jack, I don't care if you're a partner, you owe me an apology for what you said to me on Friday. I walked right in, I said, Jack, I don't care if you're a partner, you owe me an apology, 'cause what you said to me on Friday, it was unforgivable Jack, and you owe me an apology. I said, Jack, I don't care if you're a partner, what you said to me on Friday, it ruined my weekend. It ruined my Saturday, it ruined my Sunday, and that's my weekend Jack and you owe me an apology! He said, Well I'm sorry. And I said, Well you better be sorry because you owe me an apology! (He probably did owe you an apology...)You're damn right he did! I said, Jack, I don't care if you're a partner, what you said to me on Friday, it ruined my weekend. I woke up Saturday morning and 9-10, I was miserable. 10-11 worse, 11-12 even worse, 12-1, well that was a little better because I was having lunch.... "},{"Title":"Do you wanna go 'perm'?","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Josh Kornbluth wrote, directed and stars in this hilarious look at the world of corporate business and office politics.He plays himself, a pathetic loser who lives a 'temporary' life, that involves both his relationships and his profession. When his temping company assigns him to a law firm titled Schuyler & Mitchell (a.k.a. S & M - geddit?), he is offered a permanent position of employment. As an incentive to get him to stay, one of the most hilarious lines in the film is offered right here - We'll even cover your psychotherapy!When he becomes permanent, his first task is to mail out 17 important letters that he fails to do and as a result, turns his entire life upside down.Warren Keith is hilarious as 'Bob Shelby', Josh's boss - who very much so resembles Satan himself. Harry Shearer is also hilarious as the guy who takes charge of the 'one-day' office orientation which includes troubleshooting the broken photo-copier. But the biggest laugh here is Josh Kornbluth himself.Never have I seen a film set in the office place since Mike Judge's comedy 'OFFICE SPACE' that I found so strikingly hilarious.9/10  "},{"Title":"hilariously weird","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My roommate and I rented this from the video store last night, and it turned out to be one of the funniest movies i have ever seen. If you have a taste for surrealist humor, this movie will start off awesome and end up making you laugh really, really hard at how increasingly bizarre it is. One of my favorite scenes happens when the office perms take Josh out drinking, and one of the guys just tells the same story repeatedly, without filling us in on what he's talking about. Same for the chit chat in the office- Josh walks by and the co-workers are all talking in fragmented inside jokes, without the viewer knowing who or what they're talking about. Bizarre moments like this make the movie extremely rare, while the more tired clichés (like the boss being Satan) make it mediocre. The plot is really ridiculous, but that only adds to the magic. It ends, appropriately, on Snowball in Hell by they might be giants. "},{"Title":"Unfailingly Mediocre","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Reading some of the comments on here, it's hard to see how anyone can have a strong reaction to this movie in either direction. It is middle-of-the-road from start to finish. Yes, there are a few funny moments, but those are balanced out by tedium and mediocrity. Josh's incessant narration (including the opening monologue that explains, in detail, the entire plot) becomes heavy-handed and overly expository. What's intended as a clever breach of the fourth-wall comes comes across as a way to bolster his substandard narrative writing skills. By the final credits, I was left completely cold and within an hour, had lost any memory of watching the movie in the first place. It may be a good way to kill an afternoon if you're home sick from work, but anyone looking for anything other than a meaningless time-waster should look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Written and Acted by Dorks","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Watching Josh Kornbluth 'act' in this movie reminds me of my freshman TV production class, where the 'not funny' had the chance to prove just how unfunny they really were!OBVIOUS is the word that comes to mind when I try to synopsize this wannabe comedy. The jokes are sophomoric and telegraphed. The delivery is painfully bad. OUCH!!!!!!! The writing is simply dorkish. It is akin to a Bob Saget show. Watching this movie is as painful as watching a one and a half hour long Saturday Night Live skit (post Belushi). I hated this movie and want my money back!!! "},{"Title":"An excellent film of this genre.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My family is surprised that this film didn't get more attention.  An excellent film that deserved the award it won at the Sundance Festival. If you have a slightly warped sense of humor, you will really enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Amusing for some, funny for many","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Synopsis I don't go perm on my first week. remark the words of Josh Kornbluth, a San Francisco office temp by day, an aspring novelist whenever. Josh has gotten a new temp job with S&M, a downtown law firm where he works as a receptionist. But going back on his words, Josh takes on a permanent position as the receptionist of head lawyer Bob Shelby, and his first task is to mail out 17 high priority letters, but due to Josh's continual procrastination which run between his novel and an attractive lawyer, Josh gets further and further away from completing a simple task.Review If you've ever worked as a temp, you'll very much appreciate the kind of humor that the offbeat Haiku Tunnel injects. The Kornbluth Brothers' film captures every nook and cranny of temping from receiving that much awaited phone call to carrying out those simple tasks. A former temp himself, lead Josh Kornbluth is amusing in many ways from his unusual, yet warm personality as the inept temp. I really don't want to spoil the humor, but if you're offbeat, and I mean, a very offbeat individual, then Haiku Tunnel is precisely the kind of film you would want to view. "}{"Title":"Cute and clever","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a clever and pointed little film that any low-rung corporate employee, whether temp or perm, would relate to.This is no Office Space or Clockwatchers, but it has its own charms, and I think it even more accurately reflects the mindset of a lifetime temp.Casting was excellent, particularly the head secretary, Helen. Unlike other reviewers, I thought casting Josh in the main role was fine. He smirked a bit too much, too aware of his own jokes, but was forgivable.The plot isn't the point of this film at all, and if you concentrate on the letter mailing crisis you'll miss the real story. This story is about the mindet of temps and, more broadly, the corporate work world. Josh's fear of commitment, consistent underachievement, unfulfilled creative dreams, social isolation, and skewed work ethic all illustrate how unhappy and empty corporate work can make us.The movie is definitely funny, but it won't have you rolling in the aisles. More likely you'll recognize too many of your co-workers, and groan in sympathy over Josh's predicament. "},{"Title":"Screaming funny","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you've ever worked in an office, this is for you. If you've ever sat on a little annoying task till it became the ugly monster that ate your lunch, well, you will writhe in embarrassment. And the portrayal of Bob is every temp's nightmare. Ooops, gotta go, time for coffee. "},{"Title":"I left my 17 important letters in San Franslisco!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I happened to get this movie from my cable company entirely by accident. It sounded vaguely interesting, so a few hours later, I began watching it because I had nothing better to do I meant only to kill time until my television program came on an hour or so later, and turn the movie off at that time. 10 seconds and I was hooked. The introduction, with Josh explaining that the story is completely fictional, in the made up city of San Franslisco, sets the tone for the rest of the movie odd, a little off-beat, and very funny. The characters are interesting and likable. The film as a whole is odd, off-beat, and very unexpected.Bottom line It's not Oscar material, it's not side-splitingly, roll around on the floor funny, but if you want some decent entertainment, this movie will more than meet your needs. "},{"Title":"Nuggets of truth","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Peppy, funny office temp satire that coasts on the likability of nebbishy writer/actor Josh Kornbluth, who adapted it from his play(and you can tell by the many breathless talking to the camera interludes he inserts to emphasize some of the jokes, usually to the detriment of said jokes). Not quite as funny as the great Clockwatchers or Office Space but it thankfully covers ground that they didn't, and is funny and observant enough in its own right to highly recommend. Needless to say after 6+ years of temping I related too well to the main character, a temp who sees taking a permanent position in the corporate world somewhere as tantamount to losing your bachelorhood or going to jail. His description of just what a haiku tunnel is is hilarious and almost poignant in its simplicity, but you'll get to that. "},{"Title":"Way Funny","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this at Sundance two years ago and, along with Memento, it was one of my favorite movies.Is the directing a little rough?  Sure.   Are the characters somewhat shallow and often caricatures?  Yeah, I guess.But there is a vibrancy and freshness to this movie that carries the humor from one event to another.  I ended up caring for the Kornbluth character while laughing out loud all the way through.I've spent a lot of time in offices and hired more than a few temps in my life.  There was just enough reality to Kornbluth's twisted psychology that I left both enlightened and entertained. "},{"Title":"Pretty good for a low budget..","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, first of all, I decided to rent this movie hoping for another Office Space - A movie I absolutely loved!  There did seem to be some similarities, in particular, the strong use of minor characters.  For example, Harry Sheerer and Helen -the former S&M employee who calls Josh from her basement holding the phone with a kleenex while holding a flashlight under her face - were great.  I also loved the part where the, I assume gay, secretary is complaining about how his weekend was ruined. While the story isn't the most interesting, it doesn't really need to be. I felt a lot of the humour came from the smaller things like the minor characters, some funny lines, and situations.  I think if people could watch this movie twice, they would like it more. Give the Kornbluth's a break.  This was a low budget film and a first time effort.  I think you'll see some better stuff from these guys in the future.  "},{"Title":"In the class with Clockwatchers.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Certain elements of Haiku Tunnel remained me of the ones of another brilliant film Clockwatchers, even though, Clockwatchers will always be on the very top of that list in the movies about work environment category. Those you criticized this movie are perhaps over analyzing the point of such movie's existence. It is entertainment, the story is very much a reality for many people (office workers, temps, perms, etc.)and that's what movies are all about. I do agree, however, with those of you who think the main character Josh was a miscast. There was just something about him as a character that wasn't sincere enough, maybe not even very convincing in his intentions. 8/10 "},{"Title":"funny, funny movie","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am sorry so many of you seem to have not enjoyed this very funny movie. Maybe you haven't worked as temps, but I have and thought this was right on the money. My daughter - who is a perm - thought that the co-workers roles were dead-on. Many good points were covered in this entertaining film. Being a temp requires a special mind-set and I think Josh did a great job of covering all the side issues that crop up. The bit about Marlene's candy jar was hilarious. The fact that after his total neglect of the job he was hired to do, the lawyer he worked for was so totally unconcerned about what was going on, and only felt it necessary to give a PEP talk was very funny, so funny that my daughter and I, when we have both been having those sort of blank days have said to each other that we were going to go to our desks !(point your fingers here), settle down ! (make downward patting motion with hands palms down), focus !(hold hands with hands flat, fingers together, palms facing each other about 12 inches apart), and CATCH UP! (both hands give a vigorous thumbs-up gesture, jabbing thumbs skyward with mucho force for emphasis) Loved this movie... But go with someone who IS a temp - it will increase your enjoyment of the film immensely. I have seen certain movies with friends who have fallen asleep (raising arizona), and then when I went with my adult teenage children found it vastly more entertaining. Sometimes the company you are in, coupled with expectations, affect how something is perceived. I want to buy this movie. Like Beetlejuice, After Hours, Wizard of Oz, this is one I would watch over again - at least once a year. It was fun. It may not have been as tightly written or performed as some seem to think Office Space was, but really, how funny can someone consider mmmmmkay compared to the candy jar bit, and the pseudo-training for the temps on how to clear paper-jams? Lighten up and have some fun - you'll live longer. later, char  "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm.....","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why the fine people at Sundance allowed this movie into their  2001 festival is beyond me. Irritating in its attempts to be funny - this movie is nothing short of unbearable. I was amazed solely by the Kornbluth's ability to render their movie even more boring than the office environment they were supposed to be depicting. If you're going to rent this movie see Office Space twice beforehand, so you can at least make up for the laughs you'll be missing during this crapfest. "},{"Title":"Temp Enjoyment that Never Gets Past its Kinks to Go Perm","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  	Work is one of the ripest subjects for parody, being that one absolute necessity in life loved by few and hated by many.  Following in the steps of such popular office humor as Dilbert and Office Space, Haiku Tunnel comes off as a fairly enjoyable work-place comedy, though its adaptation from a monologue is obviously in need of some fine tuning.	Haiku Tunnel teaches that being a temp worker (in this case, a temp male secretary) can be the greatest and worst experience at the same time (greatest because one can live fairly freely, the worst because that freedom's cost is being, for all purposes, invisible), and that switching to permanent status can take much getting used to.  This theme of the perils of going perm for the first time is naturally the focal point of most of the film's humor &#150; the new deadlines, responsibilities and relationships with some too-perky coworkers.  Josh Kornbluth (who also directed, and co-wrote, adapting the script from his own comedic monologue), does a good job at playing himself &#150; a big dork who wants to be a novelist and just can't stand any sort of commitment (though really, how could he fail at playing himself?).  The coworkers are great about not being too annoying (the usual problem with ultra-perky characters), but the boss' character is confusing &#150; Josh claims that he is the Devil, but he's obviously not, begging the question of this being the fault of the actor, character, or if Josh is just wrong and has no idea what to expect of a real boss (for thematic purposes I'll go with the latter).	Along the way, there are a few snags, mainly resulting from the fact that this was derived from a monologue.  In monologues, especially comedic ones, it is rather common to have a break from the story where the narrator explains the background of a situation or character, since that may not be apparent from the dialogue alone.  That works fine on a stage performance, but when kept in a film adaptation, it disrupts the flow of the movie, particularly since none of these `explanations' (barring the one in the beginning) are particularly relevant for understanding what's occurring in the next scene.  Another problem with the plot is that Josh isn't really a lovable dork; he's just a dork, and as one that chooses to end his relationships only to lament over their ending, comes off a bit like a jerk as well.  Though a straight dork/jerk can be an engrossing and entertaining character who eventually gains an audience's affections (the best example of this being High Fidelity), it can just as easily be a character the audience is indifferent to, which is the case in Haiku Tunnel (and given that said dork is the main character, this is a fairly bad thing).	Haiku Tunnel is funny at parts, but at other parts rather uninteresting.  It's certainly not a bad movie, but with a little fine-tuning around the monologue and a reason to really care for the main character, it could've been a really great one.  "}{"Title":"a temp becomes a perm","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  not very funny , no strong or likeable characters, lacking in continuity, with a minimum of believability. poorly acted and shot as well.self-indulgent. boring.  fortunately, not hideously long. "},{"Title":"Josh rants","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Saw this at a sneak preview at Dallas' coolest theatre, The Inwood.  Josh Kornbluth wrote, directed and stars in this cute, even poignant, film about life at the office and those among us who just wish to blend in. Comparisons will be made to Woody Allen, but I suggest Josh's hilarious rants are more common man that Woody could ever write.  My Dinner with Andre kept coming to mind - and that is quite a compliment.  Obviously filmed on a limited budget, I do think another 15 minutes would have added a great deal of spice to the perimeter characters, who are often limited to striking static poses for Josh's character.  Farelly Bros. veteran Warren Keith is spot on as the evil attorney boss.  Harry Shearer gives a wonderfully understated performance as the dreaded orientation coordinator. The film's best performance belongs to Sarah Overman as Julie.  She brings depth to her character and offers some intrigue for future roles.  Josh's commentary are on the money, although sometimes quite obvious.  The best dialog occurs during his three or four rants. "},{"Title":"Zany, Funny, Hilarious!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That Josh Kornbluth is a cross between the young Zero Mostel and the not-so-young Woody Allen.  He is the epitome of the schlemiel, which makes me realize that if you're Jewish, you will find it hilarious, but if you're a WASP (like my wife) you won't think it's funny, but sad. The poor guy... he needs help.  That's why this permanent 'temp' becames tempted to 'perm.'  He'll take a permanent job because the law firm will cover his psychotherapy.  He's desperately in need of psychotherapy, and he seems to know it, but there's no indication he's in it, except that he's prone to free-associate, and so his unconscious spills onto he screen and into your lap, which gives the viewer mixed feelings.  He talks to the audience, he has fantasies, he gets back to the plot, and new characters come on.  The funniest is when he starts lying to a paralegal and she is so enchanted in his story that he's a full-time tax attorney who writes novels on the side.  This is very similar to a recent New Yorker short story, which I think is by the same guy.  He milks the situation of lying in order to get a gal in bed, and then guilt and inability to keep up the lies, and get kicked out of bed.  It is clear he would rather sleep than screw, which indicates his need for therapy, one of these chronic lowgrade depressions that don't respond to Prozac or Paxil. "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud Funny","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Laugh out loud funny, Haiku Tunnel is a dry and witty look at the universe of the temporary employee and how that world is effected when a job becomes permanent. At the center of Haiku Tunnel is Josh Kornbluth, a 'fictional character' played by writer director Josh Kornbluth who narrates, comments, and pontificates about his life as a temp. Kornbluth is somewhere between Woody Allen, Spaulding Grey and Dilbert with a profound sense of comic timing. One of the stand-out aspects of Haiku Tunnel is Kornbluth's spot-on characterizations of the different type of office people, especially the head secretary of S&M (a law firm), Marlina, played brilliantly by Helen Shumaker. Kornbluth goes beyond the office stereotypes and instead of portraying his fellow co-workers and bosses as 'evil' he manages to find the quirky element in each one which makes them endearing.It's easy to want to draw comparisons between The Haiku Tunnel and a movie like Office Space but the two films are more different than alike. Haiku Tunnel ultimately is less about working in an office, and more about feeling impermanent and transitionary. When it does lampoon the working world, the results are hilarious, but the real core comes out of Josh's search for himself. Haiku Tunnel is extremely funny and completely enjoyable, and I highly recommend it. Geoffrey Kleinman, DVDTalk.com "},{"Title":"What a hoot!","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to see Haiku Tunnel last night, and had a great time!The theatre attendance was a bit sparse, but everybody there laughed aloud quite a lot and seemed to enjoy themselves.  Parts of the movie aren't in the same type of format or progression that most of us are used to, but it worked for me, all the same.Josh is a darn funny guy.  Go to the movie and expect a quirky kind of film. It might not appeal to all, but then, nothing does. "},{"Title":"Terrific satire of office life","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very funny film.  Anyone who's ever worked as a temp or any office job should get some major chuckles from this.   J. Raoul Brody really nails the essence of a system administrator and Josh Kornbluth is great as the hapless temp to perm worker.   Not a comedy classic, but a very amusing hour or so.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious and Painful","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Josh Kornbluth character in this flick is so much like me it hurts to watch it. OK, I've never really temped and I've had a perm job for more than a year now, but the disgustingly messy apartment, the tasteless sportshirts, the procrastination... it's downright scary. I saw from the demographic breakdown of votes for this movie that women aren't crazy about it but it gets high marks from men, especially middle-aged men. So it must be a middle-aged pathetic guy flick. Speaking as a pathetic middle-aged guy, it was sometimes painful to laugh at myself, but I'm quite happy that I got a chance to experience this movie. Haiku Tunnel is the Bridget Jones's Diary for us hopeless males who have (as Josh's lawyer boss charitably put it) an artistic temperament.  "},{"Title":"You all got it so very wrong. This is a good little movie with a message.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand why people gave this film such harsh criticism. For a comedy, it really hit a nerve, and that's no easy task. It's a satire and a cynical analysis of the modern workplace and the ridiculousness that comes with mindless desk jobs. The main character was clearly not meant for a 9 to 5 routine, and this film showed what happens to creative people stuck in a cubicle all day long they get depressed and create mind games to maintain their sanity. I thought this film did a very good job in showing that the regimentation of corporate life is not conducive or compatible with free thought. The characterizations of the boss, coworkers, and the head secretary were very funny. This film reminds me why corporate America is failing. The dismal, over regimented conditions are not compatible with free thought, and for the writer to show this in the context of a comedy makes it all the more clever. I really don't understand how people could not see this point. It's an enjoyable and well made little film that takes you inside the mind of an inconspicuous office temp. It's very funny. "},{"Title":"Good idea...poorly executed","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I found it ironic that Kornbluth chose a version of Bob Dylan's Lay Lady Lay for the love scene in the movie. Beyond that, he selected a version by Isaac Hayes.Dylan, arguably the greatest American songwriter of the last 50 years has, some may say, a unique vocal quality. Some may characterize his voice as interesting, others as nasal, and still others may classify it as awful.The result is that many of his finest works are most recognizable in the versions recorded by artists other than Dylan himself. The Byrds' Mr. Tambourine Man, Jimi Hendrix' All Along the Watchtower, and Eric Clapton's Knockin' on Heaven's Door are all examples of songs better served by stylists other than the author.In clearly recognizing this fact it surprises me that Josh Kornbluth would choose to star in Haiku Tunnel; a movie he also directed, wrote, and produced.I understand the Woody Allen-esquire desire of some filmmakers to become the non-traditional leading men in their own work, but I couldn't help but think that Haiku Tunnel would have been better served by nearly anyone else in the lead role.In fact, the casting could have been better on the whole. Only Helen Shumaker as head secretary Marlina really stood out on the basis of her performance.Don't get me wrong, it's not as though I have nothing nice to say about the picture. For example, it was short.Beyond that it was a fairly unique film with some comic value, although it was difficult to get around the lackluster delivery of the good lines. "},{"Title":"Tunnel collapse","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was very much a parson's nose of a flick. The observations on temping and office life were sometimes wry and well-observed. But, with the same slow-motion psychological public pile-up that is the balding man's comb over, the director-writer-lead also chooses to wear his ego and its attendant insecurities upon his sleeve. His motivation for doing so and its unconscious implications may be the same as the bald guy, but the public spectacle is as dramatic and horrifying as last moments of the Hindenburg. Belief suspended / Temp troglodyte schtupps hot chicks / Chins stroked skeptically "}{"Title":"Great script","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Boring?!  Huh?  Maybe for fans of big-time, star-studded commercial blockbuster type movies (i.e., predictable, unoriginal, trite).  Anyone with an intelligent sense of humor will find this witty script to be a breath of fresh air.  If you liked OFFICE SPACE, you'll love this one. "},{"Title":"There's no light at the end of this tunnel!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll dispense with the usual comparisons to a certain legendary filmmaker known for his neurotic New Yorker persona, because quite frankly, to draw comparisons with bumbling loser Josh Kornbluth, is just an insult to any such director.   I will also avoid mentioning the spot-on satire `Office Space' in the same breath as this celluloid catastrophe.   I can, however, compare it to waking up during your own surgery &#150; it's painful to watch and you wonder whether the surgeons really know what they're doing.  Haiku Tunnel is the kind of film you wish they'd pulled the plug on in its early stages of production.  It was cruel to let it live and as a result, audiences around the world are being made to suffer.The film's premise &#150; if indeed it has one &#150; is not even worth discussing, but for the sake of caution I will.  Josh Kornbluth, a temp worker with severe commitment-phobia, is offered a permanent job.  His main duty is to mail out 17 high priority letters for his boss.  But ludicrously, he is unable to perform this simple task.  My reaction? Big deal! That's not a story&#133; it's a passing thought at best - one that should've passed any self-respecting filmmaker by.  The leading actor &#150; if you can call him that &#150; is a clumsy buffoon of a man, with chubby features, a receding, untamed hairline, and a series of facial expressions that range from cringe-making to plain disturbing.  Where o where did the director find this schmuck? What's that you say&#133;&#133; he is the director? Oh, my mistake.   Playing yourself in your own embarrassment of a screenplay is one thing, but I suspect that Mr Kornbluth isn't that convincing as a human being, let alone an actor.  Rest assured, this is by no means an aimless character assassination, but never before have I been so riled up by an actor's on-screen presence!  My frustration was further confounded by his incessant to-camera monologues in between scenes.  I mean, as if the viewer needs an ounce of intelligence to comprehend this drivel, Kornbluth insults us further by `explaining' the action (first rule of filmmaking `dramatize exposition'&#133; show, don't tell).  Who does this guy think he is?  He has no charisma, no charm, and judging by his Hawaiian shirts, no sense of style.  His casting agent should be shot point blank!The supporting actors do nothing to relieve the intense boredom I felt, with but one exception.  Patricia Scanlon puts in a very funny appearance as Helen the ex-secretary, who has been driven insane by her old boss, and makes harassing phone calls from her basement, while holding a flashlight under her face.  This did make me chuckle to myself, but the moment soon passed and I was back to checking my watch for the remainder of the film.The film's title is also a misnomer.  Haiku Tunnel has nothing to do with the ancient form of Japanese poetry.  Don't be fooled into thinking this is an art house film because of its pretentious-sounding title or the fact that it only played in a handful of cinemas and made no money at the box office&#133;&#133;&#133; there's a very good reason for that! "},{"Title":"World's largest, and possible worst inside joke.","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The worlds largest inside joke. The world's largest, most exclusive inside joke.Emulating the brash and 'everyman' humor of office space, this film drives the appeal of this film into the ground by making the humor such that it would only be properly appreciated by legal secretaries writing books. The audience is asked to assume the unfamiliar role of a legal secretary, and then empathize with the excruciatingly dumb protagonist.The entire film is centered on the legal secretary finding free time, listening to music and writing a novel while working. These are his goals. You can't imagine the slap in the face it is to the audience when (around halfway through) they find out he has had a job which fit all three of those criteria, but then gives it UP! The director and screenwriter (Jacob Kornbluth and Josh Kornbluth) completely remove the audience's motivation to empathize or even find entertaining a protagonist that has previously thrown away that which he is complaining about the lack thereof.Apart from that major stumbling block, the legal secretary insider humor fails because they must be explained explicitly to the audience each time they happen. Without these asides, the audience wouldn't have noticed anything particularly strange. Humor is only effective if it doesn't need to be thoroughly explained to the audience what is funny.  "},{"Title":"I've laughed more at funerals","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is just plainly a stupid movie written by a guy who plays a pointless character. The acting is along the lines of a bad high school play and it's not funny at all. It's not cute or thoughtful. The main character (who wrote this) should stick to staying out of the way of the lens. If I had ten thumbs, they'd all be down. I didn't laugh once. "},{"Title":"Never again.","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After waking up at 330 in the morning and not being able to go to sleep, I decided that I may as well be entertained while I suffered from sleep deprivation. This movie was on HBO and I decided to watch it. What a mistake!Here is the plot (potential spoilers, if you even care)  a neurotic man with an addiction to candy (Josh Kornbluth) works as a temp for some ridiculous company. Suddenly, he is offered the chance to go perm, which seems to be the favorite catch-phrase of this movie. But with a secure job and a secure income within his grasp, Josh decides for whatever stupid reason that he doesn't want to do it. He hopelessly bungles several minor tasks and his laziness and lack of ambition fill me with contempt. His inability to send several very important letters within a given amount of time is supposed to be hilarious, but is merely stupid. Josh meets and deceives a lawyer woman and they wind up in bed together (obviously a fantasy of Josh's in real life, as such a thing would never happen). A bunch of other stuff happens, but it's too trite and inane to go into now.Despite the fact that this movie is billed as a comedy, I only laughed twice during it; the first time was the opening shot of Josh Kornbluth (my initial reaction was one of stifling fear) and the second was when he was in bed with the attractive woman (yeah, right). Josh Kornbluth is perhaps the most terrifying-looking person I have ever seen in my life. He is an unattractive, overweight, balding Jewish man who I am supposed to believe has sex with beautiful women. I do not at all sympathize with Josh's character. He is lazy and unmotivated and I just don't appreciate the failed attempts at humor. Skip it, even if your life depends upon it. "},{"Title":"Boooooorrrring","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I passed this one on the shelf a few times, looking at the myriad of huge positive quotes (with tiny names) on the front and wondering if I was missing something. The other night it was on one of the movie channels, and I tuned in. I missed nothing.I must admit that I only watched the first 30 minutes. Perhaps the movie becomes comedy gold after that. Given the slow, plodding pace and complete lack of laughter in the first 30, I seriously doubt it.The lead character starts the movie in classic I don't know how to start my movie style, with a long, tiresome monologue about how he doesn't want to get sued. It's not funny. It's not even remotely funny. Others have commented on the San Franclisco bit; ok, a small chuckle the first time he says it. Then he grinds it into the ground, smiling at the camera like it's the funniest thing ever written. Get over yourself. In fact, I think the talking to the camera bit was the reason I instantly disliked the film. Don't assume familiarity with your audience. Familiarity is _earned_, much like respect.From there you basically have a fat whiny guy talking in a very effeminate way about his dull life as a temp. I didn't realize he's Jewish; it's a discredit to Jewish comedians to call this Jewish humor. It's just unfunny humor. Just because you're Jewish doesn't mean you have a knack for the comedy. A WASP, Spalding Gray, does a better job of self-analytical humor than this guy, so obviously it's not about ethnicity.If one of the bits I had seen had worked, I might have stuck around. But some schlub going on about how much he loves the names of the women he works with, then listing them for five long minutes, doesn't make a great movie.This is an obvious attempt to capitalize on the popularity of Office Space. Don't let yourself become a victim of target marketing. Just say no to Haiku Tunnel.  "},{"Title":"NOT like Office Space","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is nothing like Office Space except in the premise.  Office Space was hilarious.  I would not recommend this movie to anyone, as I laughed not once during the entire film.  Mr. Cornbluth's self-indulgent tirades quickly become more annoying than 15 Jason Alexanders in the same room.  If you decide to see this movie, use a free rental or watch it at someone else's house so you can leave if necessary. "},{"Title":"Problematic","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Haiku Tunnel' was originally created as a performance piece and the film itself more or less replicates that experience, with Spalding Gray being the most pervasive influence here. (He's thanked in the credits.) The filmmakers, brothers Jacob and Josh Kornbluth, concentrate on Josh's days as a temporary secretary and the emotional turmoil he experiences when he goes full time for a law firm. Though it's a comedy and there are some clever observations about corporate life, it's plain that Josh Kornbluth is a very depressed individual, a fact he spends the entire film trying to rationalize. The problem is that he doesn't seem to want to escape from his depression; if being a temp allows him a freedom that ultimately leads to a void, then going full time constricts him to an impotence that causes him to disconnect. It's a cyclical problem he wants us to empathize with but it's nearly impossible given his whiny insistence that it's a viable lifestyle chosen of his free will. The Kornbluths (and their co-scenarist John Bellucci) concentrate so heavily on Josh's misery that whatever attention they give to the supporting cast is in the form of caricature and condescension; only June Lomena as another secretary shows any notion of individuality.      "},{"Title":"Talk About A Tunnel At the End of the Tunnel...","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  	Office work, especially in this era of computers, multi-functional copy machines, e-mail, voice mail, snail mail and `temps,' is territory ripe with satirical possibilities, a vein previously tapped in such films as `Clockwatchers' and `Office Space,' and very successfully.  This latest addition to the temp/humor pool, however, `Haiku Tunnel,' directed by Josh Kornbluth and Jacob Kornbluth, fails to live up to it's predecessors, and leaves the laughs somewhere outside the door, waiting for a chance to sneak in.  Unfortunately for the audience, that chance never comes; so what you get is a nice try, but as the man once said, no cigar.	As the narrator/star of the film, Josh Kornbluth (playing Josh Kornbluth), points out in the opening frames (in a monologue delivered directly into the camera), this story is pure fiction, and takes place in the fictional city of `San Franc'l'isco.'  It's an innovative, if not very imaginatively presented disclaimer, and not all that funny.  It is, however, a harbinger of what is to follow, all of which-- like the disclaimer-- just isn't all that funny.	Kornbluth plays Kornbluth, an aspiring novelist who supports himself working as a `temp.'  It's a job that suits him, and it gives him time to slip in some work on his novel from time to time.  But when he goes to work for a lawyer, Bob Shelby (Warren Keith), he does too good a job on the first day, and Shelby dispatches head secretary Marlina D'Amore (Helen Shumaker) to Kornbluth to persuade him to go `perm.'  The thought of working full time for the same company, though, initially strikes fear in the heart of Kornbluth, but he caves in and signs on for the position.  He's nervous about it, but at least now the other secretaries acknowledge his presence (which, of course, they would never do with a temp), and if things get too rough, he has seventeen important letters he's typed up-- that now just have to be mailed out-- to fall back on (he's been holding them back because the mailing is the easy part, and he needs that `something easy to do' in reserve, in case it all gets to be too much for him).  These are `important' letters, however, and by the end of the week, Kornbluth still has them in reserve, on his desk.  And it doesn't take a genius to figure out that when Shelby finds out about it, Kornbluth's days as the fair-haired boy are going to be over.  And quick.	The Brothers Kornbluth, who not only directed, but along with John Bellucci also wrote the screenplay for this film, should have taken a page out of the Ben Stiller Book of Comedy, where it says `If you play it straight, they will laugh.'  But, they didn't, and the audience won't.  Because in comedy, even looking at it as objectively as possible, when the main character (as well as most of the supporting characters, in this case) `Plays' funny-- as in, he `knows' he's being funny-- he never is.  And that's exactly what Kornbluth does here; so rather than being `funny,' he comes across as insincere and pretentious, a grievous error in judgment on the part of the Kornbluths, because by allowing it, they sabotaged their own movie. 	In trying to discern exactly why this movie doesn't work, it comes down to two basic reasons  The directing, which-- if not necessarily `bad'-- is at least careless; and secondly, the performances, beginning with that of Josh Kornbluth.  Quite simply, Kornbluth just seems too impressed with himself to be effective here.  Unlike Stiller, or even Steve Martin-- both of whom use self-deprecating humor very effectively-- Kornbluth apparently has an ego that simply will not allow putting himself in that light; he seems to have a need to let his audience know that he, the real Kornbluth, is in reality much more clever than Kornbluth the character.  And being unable to get past that does him in, as well as the film.  Rather than give the millions of office workers who may see this film someone to whom they can relate or with whom they can identify, Kornbluth affects a condescending manner that only serves to alienate the very people he is attempting to reach.  So what it all comes down to is a case of poor directing and unconvincing acting, and when you take into consideration that the screenplay itself was weak to begin with, with an inexplicably narrow focus (given the potential of the rich subject matter), it's easy to understand why this one just doesn't fly.	The one saving grace of the film is the performance by Warren Keith as Shelby, whose subtle delivery is convincing, and which-- in and of itself-- is fairly humorous.  The effectiveness of it is diminished, however, inasmuch as Keith has to share his scenes with Kornbluth, which somewhat automatically cancels out his positive contributions to the project. 	Shumaker and Sarah Overman (Julie Faustino) also manage to keep their heads above water with their respective performances, which are commendable, if not entirely memorable; they at least make their scenes watchable, and Overman even manages to elevate Kornbluth's performance, if only momentarily.  But it's still not enough to save the day or the film.	The supporting cast includes Amy Resnick (Mindy), Brian Thorstenson (Clifford), June Lomena (DaVonne), Joe Bellan (Jimmy the Mail Clerk), with a cameo appearance by a disheveled looking Harry Shearer, as the Orientation Leader-- a role that begs for an answer to the question, `What was he thinking when he agreed to this?'  In any work environment, there will forever be situations arising that one way or another will unavoidably become fodder for someone's comedic cannon, and the films depicting said situations will always be with us; the good ones (see paragraph one) may even become classics in their own right.  `Haiku Tunnel,' however, will doubtfully remain very long amongst them, for it's destiny lies elsewhere-- in a realm known only as  `Obscurity.'  I rate this one 1/10.                     	     	 "},{"Title":"The worst thing I've seen in years!","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My wife and I rented this movie because some people had drawn parallels between it and Office Space.  Blockbuster and IMDB even had it as an also recommended selection if you liked Office Space.Now, I've seen Office Space probably 15 or 20 times.  I love it.  It's probably one of my 10 favorite movies.  Witty, humorous, and featuring characters that remind me of people I've worked with over the years. Haiku Tunnel is similar to office Space in that they are both films.  That's where the similarity ends.  We sat through probably the first 50 minutes of HT, giving it the benefit of the doubt, hoping, nay, *praying* that it would get better.  It didn't.  We couldn't take it any more, and stopped the tape. Thank GOD it was a free rental.  I'd have been p***ed if we'd actually paid for it.  We should be reimbursed for having to sit through it.  Now, since we didn't see the end, perhaps it miraculously comes together and redeems itself.  I doubt it.Haiku Tunnel is so bad it's hard to believe it ever got produced.  The movie is SO unfunny it's painful.  Just mail the friggin letters already!!!  The premise is asinine.  The jokes are awful.  We got as far as the printer doesn't work scene and had to stop.  We couldn't take it anymore.  This film is an EMBARRASMENT for Josh Kornbluth.If you are a fan of Office Space......don't waste your time with this turd. 0/10  "}{"Title":"The exact opposite of funny","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Really, when it comes down to it, this movie is just not funny. Josh Kornbluth is the antithesis of funny, and yet he thinks he's hilarious. The plot about mailing the 17 letters was fine at first, until Josh's look at me, I'm wacky approach began infesting each and every scene. The Judas Priest joke may have been the least funny thing I have ever been privy to, and that is saying quite a bit, since it does have stiff competition from all the other jokes in the movie. And as for the incredible overuse of the Pixies' Debaser, I have just one thing to say What did the Pixies ever do to deserve a fate like this? What did anyone do to Josh Kornbluth to cause him to write/direct/produce/star in such a terrible movie? "},{"Title":"The only film I've ever walked out of","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this is almost all I need to say.  I feel obliged to explain my actions though.   I've basically never seen such an armature production, and I mean that in all senses of the word.  Although he physical camera work, boom MIC operation and other technical aspects of this film are laughable, unfortunately its not the only areas.  Unlike some classic independent films that have been saved by their scripts great characterization and plot, this unfortunately has an awful script, awful acting and worst of all, awful annoying characters.  It's a crime that for the every independent film that gets, distribution like Haiku Tunnel, there's a 101 other indie films that died silent deaths.     I don't know who the Kornbluth brothers know at Sony, but that can be my only explanation as to how this amateur family production ever got distribution.   I'm quite bemused as to why they picked this up.The ONLY part of this film that holds out any intrigue is its title.  However, the reason for that is even a let down.    I hope this review will save a few people that may be intrigued by this films title from going to watch it.   I've seen a lot of films in my time, and I'm very forgiving when in the cinema, but this was too much.   I'll never forget 'tunnel', for marking an important point in my life experience of cinema.  Shame it's such a low point.    "},{"Title":"The only film I've ever walked out of","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think this is almost all I need to say.  I feel obliged to explain my actions though.   I've basically never seen such an armateur production, and I mean that in all senses of the word.  Although the physical camera work, boom MIC operation and other technical aspects of this film are laughable, unfortunately its not the only areas.Unlike some classic independent films that have been saved by their scripts great characterization and plot, this unfortunately has an awful script, awful acting and worst of all, awful annoying characters.It's a crime that for the every independent film that gets, distribution like Haiku Tunnel, there's a 101 other indie films that died silent deaths. I don't know who the Kornbluth brothers know at Sony, but that can be my only explanation as to how this amateur family production ever got distribution.   I'm quite bemused as to why they picked this up.The ONLY part of this film that holds out any intrigue is its title. However, the reason for that is even a let down.    I hope this review will save a few people that may be intrigued by this films title from going to watch it.   I've seen a lot of films in my time, and I'm very forgiving when in the cinema, but this was too much.   I'll never forget 'tunnel', for marking an important point in my life experience of cinema.  Shame it's such a low point. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's hard to describe how terrible this film is, because usually when a film is bad, it becomes good and somewhat enjoyable just to make fun of. But Haiku Tunnel somehow managers to just be unbelievably un-fun from start to finish.I seriously wanted to like this film. I'm not saying this to be mean, but my date and I wasted 20 bucks and two hours. If you do choose to go, do it in a sort of anthropological sort of way. As in, how is this possible? Is this really a movie? "},{"Title":"Not good.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was hopeful about this movie, looking for some satiric entertainment about the inner life of office workers.  However, what I got was a rather self-indulgent film with nothing to say. I was looking at my watch 10 minutes into it!  "},{"Title":"This was quite possibly the least entertaining film ever.","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for Haiku Tunnel, I thought it looked like it would be pretty funny.  So I took a friend of mine to go see it -- and had to buy him dinner afterwards to make up for my cinematic blunder. SPOILERS! SPOILERS! SPOILERS! SPOILERS NEXT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Any film that starts off with a voice over narration (with the exception of the great Woody Allen) telling me what I am about to see, think and feel has already taken the fun out of it for me.  I like to go to a movie and figure things out for myself, not be told what I am about to see and how I should feel about it.  Let me experience it myself.  A lovable loser is a wonderful character - however, this loser (Josh) is far from lovable.  In fact, Josh has not one redeeming quality, NOT ONE!  And his boss that is supposed to be Satan seems like a very nice guy!  And then after almost an hour they toss the fact that he's writing a novel at us?  What?  Where did that come from? Then, he starts writing this novel on Post-It Notes and sticking them all over himself (which I guess was supposed to be funny) but later on he says he started the novel at his last temp job - which one is it?   Oh, and another thing - IT IS NOT FUNNY!  There is not one laugh out loud moment in this film!  Several members of the audience got up and left mid way through! The rest of us stayed and moaned and groaned to one another about how truly terrible it was!  The story was weak, the characters were underdeveloped and unlikeable and I don't know who backed this film, but they should be ashamed of themselves because it is quite possibly the worst excuse for a film that I have ever seen!  Do yourself a favor and don't go see it.  Don't rent it. Don't watch it on the Sundance Channel, if it happens to be on a plane, save yourself the headset rental.  It is pure torture. "},{"Title":"Holy Crap this movie was so bad that I now believe there never was a Jesus","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Seriously, this Josh Kornbluth character needs to go down. I don't know where you guys got the money to make this super ultra mega garbage crap, but if you stole it from me I will take serious revenge. Violent, messy, disrespectful, smelly revenge. Damn you Kornbluths!!!!! Damn you!!!!!!Here's a haiku for you ridiculously untalented, money wasting, thinking you're all funny and insightful when you are in fact useless, 2 hours of my life ruining hacksThis movie sucks. It sucks more than a baby calf at its mother's teet. It seriously is so bad that you will roll around in agony, willing to kill your whole family just to make it stop. I almost killed myself during this movie. Don't rent it even if it's free. As bad as I'm making it sound...it's way worse. They should test nuclear weapons on this movie. This movie proves there was no god as he would have surely stopped such a horrible atrocity. If you want to see a much better movie about the quirks of office life then just watch anything else. anything at all. Even a movie about gay pirates. If you want to see the best movie involving an office of any kind watch Die Hard. Die Hard rules. Die Hard should have stopped Kornbluth before so much irreparable damage was done to the world. Kornbluth, thou art my nemesis Grrrrr!!!!!!I know it's not your standard haiku, but I just had to get it all out.P.S. The formatting did't work and so my poem has been robbed of some of its luster. "},{"Title":"Painfully unfunny","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sometimes I use Netflix to catch up on movies I haven't seen in a long time; other times, I use it to take a peek at movies that someone's mentioned or told me about, but either I didn't have the interest or didn't know about them. Such was the case with Haiku Tunnel, a movie which was described to me as Office Space, only better. Since I thought Office Space was genius (well, the first two thirds of it, anyway; it has some trouble at the end), I was eager to see a movie that might have taken the formula a step further and gotten it completely right.I'm still eager to see that film, because Haiku Tunnel sure isn't it; if anything the film only reinforces my vague discomfort with word of mouth recommendations. Haiku is the story of one Josh Kornbluth (actor, director, writer, and orchestrator of this mess), a temp who decides against his better judgement to go perm at a law firm. Josh, as it turns out, is a pretty good temp, but a lousy perm worker. And that's pretty much the whole movie.Kornbluth tries really hard &#150; in fact way too hard &#150; to be funny. There are a few chuckles in the film, such as when the ice queen head secretary shows up, or passes by, the soundtrack plays wind blowing in the background. But a great deal of the film isn't even that clever; it's mostly Josh talking about how lazy and unmotivated he is. It's hard to sympathize with someone who has a semi-romantic relationship with his bed (not kidding there) and who looks like a human version of Jon Lovitz' cartoon character The Critic. Worse yet, Kornbluth's narration overexplains everything (and he makes the ghastly mistake of addressing the audience up front for nearly five minutes before the movie starts; apparently he skipped the class in film school where they explain how the beginning of a movie is supposed to catch people's interest); he leeches even the potential humor out of most of his situations, until you're left with about ninety minutes of someone explaining his own jokes, which isn't quite as much fun as it sounds.Haiku Tunnel is one you can definitely skip. I suppose some might find Kornbluth's attempts at humor engaging, but if you want to see a funny movie about the office, watch the first hour of Office Space; if you want to see a funny movie about unmotivated people, check out Slackers. If, however, you want to see someone who is woefully unfunny spend an hour and a half painfully trying to convince you otherwise, then by all means, give Haiku Tunnel a try. "},{"Title":"Problems in format conversion","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are a few good moments, but much of it is unwatchable, not just because it's neither funny nor moving, but also because the character is doing such horrible things.  I've seen Josh Kornbluth on the West Coast Live radio program where he is hilarious and amazing doing improv with host Sedge Thomson. What the movie lacks is his charm and wit in explaining all the bad things that he did -- on that basis they seem almost okay. But in film he doesn't really get to explain them for the most part -- instead we just look on in horror.  What the movie should have done to make up for this is add more material, but it didn't happen.  Let's hope the creators understand this before setting out to do Red Diaper Baby or Tax Law or whatever. "},{"Title":"Appreciation","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was pretty funny at times and dragged at other parts. I just started working as a temp for a law firm, and the depiction of the bosses, secretary, etc are hilarious.  I think this film can be appreciated more if you have ever been a temp or whatnot.  This movie relates to Office Space in the sense that it takes place at a corporate America business, but that's about it.  Critics just put the tag Office Space on it.  I don't think that Josh made this movie to try to imitate Office Space at all, just a personal experience of his that is humorous with cynical view. "}{"Title":"A monologue that doesn't translate well to film.","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The most telling bit of information in this film comes during the closing credits, when it tells us that this film was Based on the monologue 'Haiku Tunnel' by Josh Kornbluth. And that's how this film feels -- like a monologue, not like a drama. Kornbluth ignores the show, don't tell rule that I thought EVERY writer learns in their very first writing class. As a result, we are treated to needless voice-overs, and jarring cutaways from Josh Kornbluth the character to Josh Kornbluth the director, explaining the plot as if his audience is too stupid to think for themselves.The essence of drama is a threat to one's identity. We quickly grasp Josh's identity as a neurotic creative type in a stifling corporate world, and we're shown how going perm at the law firm constitutes a threat to that identity. His repeated failure to mail the 17 very important letters is an act of rebellion (sometimes conscious and sometimes not), to keep that identity from being submerged. But in the end, thanks to the intervention of his boss and co-workers, he succumbs to the corporate mindset.That's the plot in a nutshell. A great movie could have been made out of it. Instead, we get a lot of distracting asides regarding the quirks of temp workers and, lawyers, and legal secretaries. This is fine in a comedic monologue, but death to a film. It's not a terrible film, and it does have its funny moments, although I'll agree with the other viewers who said that it comes nowhere near Office Space. Kornbluth ought to try again, with a script written as a movie rather than a warmed-over monologue. Then we'll see whether or not he can actually give us a good film. "},{"Title":"Who would like this movie","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For anyone (like myself) who toiled as a support staffer in a law firm, this movie will hit home.  The Kornbluth's observations about lawyers, especially summer associates is right on point.  I've recommended this movie to all my law firm friends.  This movie is like an inside joke, some will get it, others won't.   "},{"Title":"Wannabe office humor, a real sleeper","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know what kind of person would think this movie was funny, but for me, this was a real sleeper.  I think I might have chuckled slightly once or twice during the film, but overall the humor was quite lame and the cast did nothing to help it along.  Forget this film and rent Office Space if you want real office humor.  I wasted five bucks renting this one... "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a VERY, VERY bad attempt to be like Office Space. For one, Josh's character is unbelievable, at best.  Second, there is no real plot other than Josh being assigned to mail out 17 letters ASAP and his failure to do so.  Third, his supporting cast were statues with no real value.This all begins with Josh talking to the audience for 10 minutes about his evil boss and his theories on work.  He inexplicably breaks up with a gf 10 rungs out of his class, then mopes about it the rest of the movie.  He then is assigned a job at a law firm and is offered to go perm (permanent). He suddenly feels trapped, as if he is committing to one place would wreck him, just like committing to his gf would wreck him. One hijinx after another, Josh must screw every simple task up, which becomes very weary to the viewer.  Unlike Office Space, this worker is just a loser, and you have little to no sympathy for him because he does it all himself.  There is very little actual humor in this, but more subtleties that cause the viewer to drift at times.This movie would have been better had it been more believable and adding more office humor in it, rather than just showing an unbelievable train wreck. For instance, give Josh an average girlfriend that stalks him occasionally and make him look paranoid at the office (his co-workers wouldn't believe he could get a stalker, which would lead to some actual humor).  Add more office humor - explore the characters at the office, their behaviors, and their habits (Office Space did this well).  Make him a millionaire or something by inheritance, and one condition of his trust is that he has to work 40 hour work weeks and he finds the most menial job he can.  He struggles just to get to work in the morning and his attitude on working hard would make it believable that the 17 envelopes is a CHORE to him.  Make the audience believe that the 17 letters is dependent on him losing his inheritance and the other office people want him gone so try to sabotage him at every possible time.  Sort of like Drew Carey meets Office Space meets Billy Madison.This movie had potential, but lost it about halfway through when it was evident there was no climax, only a screwed-up loser with a fear of commitment.  The humor was few and far between.   "},{"Title":"Haiku Krap!","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, maybe my one line summary is a little harsh for this small independent film. I must admit, the signs for question marks were right there from the beginning.  Whenever you see the credits and the same name keeps coming up over and over you quickly assertain that the film is one persons view and vision.  This case, Josh Kornbluth, who starred, wrote, directed, produced lighted, got coffees for crew members etc.The movie starts off on a good note.  Josh (whose character name is also Josh as to not confuse himself), speaks directly into the camera and introduces himself and his situation.  Josh is a temp who has just broken up with his girlfriend and his new assignment is at the law firm S&M.  Here we are introduced to virtually the entire cast, Bob the boss, Denise the 'head receptionist', Mindy, Clifford and DaVonne who also work at the firm and who spend more time in the lunchroom than at their desks.In just one day, Josh goes from temp to perm and immediately his devotion to the job slips.  Josh begins to show up to work later and later due to 'personal problems'.  Josh is given his first major task - that of typing 17 very important letters that are dictated on a cassette and given to him for same day processing.  Distractions abide.  The system crashes.  And Josh's attention then focus on using the company resources for the purposes of writing his own novel.Anyone that has ever worked in an office can relate to almost all of the characters in some kind of way.  The quirky boss that uses the speaker phone in your presence, the company mailman that wears a tie but moves at the speed of a parapalegic snail, the head receptionist that sees you arrive every morning and has a large jar of candy at her desk, and the systems individual that works in a dark corner surrounded by computers and always knows the problems and can fix them with the stroke of a keyboard.  On those levels, the film works.  It is the story that is hard to relate to.  Josh keeps finding excuses or distractions that don't allow him to finish the letters.  Even when given 'wiggle room, Josh still cannot meet a deadline. It is hard to relate to someone this dumb, especially since everything else in the movie (with the exception to a mis-identity that leads to a night in the hay for ole Josh), probably has us indentifying with someone we once worked with.I think Josh Kornbluth had a one joke idea and enough money to back the vision.  He is probably a very funny man to sit with and chat over a watercooler about office politics and who is doing what, when and to whom. However, when all his ideas were put in line resulting in 88 minutes of stories, they fail because of his attempts to take himself out of the office and to his personal life that is far less interesting.Kudos to the orientation man, played by Simpson's voice Harry Shearer and to my favorite character 'the bed' that steals the movie. "},{"Title":"If I had 10 thumbs, they'd all be down","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Have you ever been around a guy who thinks he's so funny, and you just keep thinking to yourself, I hope I'm at least smiling, because I'm looking right in his face? There's a great Woody Allen scene like this, and Woody Allen this guy isn't. In fact he's more like Gummo Marx, or perhaps the one-man comedy team of Abbott and Abbott. You get the picture. I'm just wondering how he got all the actors in the movie the day off from their day job at the mortuary. If your looking for a great office comedy, then rent the grand-daddy of them all, OFFICE SPACE. It's already a cult classic. If you howled with laughter at this one, like I've read some of you have, then rent Caddyshack 2 - it's right up your alley.  "},{"Title":"soooooo not office space","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the acting was so so bad, the story was worse, my friends and I rented it because between 4 people there are not many good comedies none of us had seen at blockbuster.  I think we turned it off half way through, probably a little less. although we were surprised that we stuck it out that along. AVOID AT ALL COSTS.  oh yeah, what kind of fat dude secretary who looks like jay sherman from the critic wears loud flourescent multicolored shirts to work in a law firm and then actually gets offered a job?  "},{"Title":"I felt like beating up Josh","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Josh was just like the loser kids we used to beat up in grammar school.  I stopped that stuff, but felt like doing it again while seeing this loser film, a loser film about a loser, another fat, homely, slob loser.  How these guys get their loser films financed is beyond me. And, how do they get anyone to pay to see the their loser films?  I got the DVD free at the library or I would take it back to Blockbuster and beat up the clerk.What a totally stupid nothing film about nothing, and with about 5 minutes of real content in the entire film.  Just perfect for the know-nothing taste of kids today, so it will probably make a lot of money off them. Arghhhhhhhhh! "}]