[{"Title":"Very good","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"56 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must say, I really enjoyed Orange County. It's not a truly important cinematic masterpiece, but what were you expecting--Gone With the Wind? This movie is a lot of fun and I never get sick of it. Jack Black plays the brother absolutely wonderfully. He cracked me up about 90 times throughout the movie.Overall, a very enjoyable, fun movie. Watch it if you want to kill some time. "},{"Title":"New age teen comedy that knocks it out of the park.","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County is a predictable, new age teen comedy. Then why is it so great?Southern California surfer-dude Shaun Brumbder is all about surfing and partying until one of his good friends dies in a surfing accident and Shaun begins to question the point of his life which is all surfing and partying. Then he finds a book that changes his life and he decides he wants to become a writer. The problem? He lives in the rich LA suburban community of Orange County, where people are more obsessed with pop culture and themselves than being happy and Shaun feels he needs to get out to go become a writer and study under his favorite author at Stanford University. (which is about 6 hours north of where he lives)Again, why is this great? First and foremost, we have the script. It's smart, but still wacky as a teen comedy needs to be. The characters aren't nitwits wander around aimlessly or purposely insult themselves by being complete morons. There's no pointless wandering for a car or bathing in urine. It knows what it is, a teen comedy, but it's smart enough to know it doesn't have to be grossly offensive or incredibly stupid to be funny. The story has a heart, and the wacky antics all support it.Next is the cast. Without the perfect cast this movie could've been a dud. The main character is played by Colin Hanks (son of Tom Hanks) in his first major starring role and he nails it. He plays the smart surfer-dude with a dream perfectly and he deals and reacts to his environment and the rest of the superb cast as he should. If you really watch you can find a little bit of his father in him, but mostly he is his own actor, and a good one at that. He's very natural playing a realistic character. His girlfriend is played by Schuyler Fisk (daughter of Sissy Spacek), and she's a very positive, caring California girl. Her character wasn't as strong as Hanks', but she was mainly meant to be more of his sidekick than counterpart. Jack Black was the reason I saw this movie in theaters, and he was as awesome as usual (up until recently, where's he has just been taking whatever is thrown at him seemingly) as the unmotivated stoner older brother Hanks' character Shaun doesn't want to be. He's the worst example in the world, and is ultimately part of Shaun's motivation to not become like him. Next are Catherine O'Hara and John Lithgow, who both have seemingly come into their prime closer to middle age. They play off of each other wonderfully as Shaun's selfish parents that live the rich LA life and feel like their son owes them something. Chevy Chase is great as the school principle even though the role is small, he gets a laugh or two as he is bound to do. The teacher Mr. Burke is played by Mike White who strangely hits home as a California high school teacher more into pop culture than teaching, and he also wrote the fantastic script. Also, he is just another character in the long line of people hold Shaun down. Leslie Mann and George Murdock have funny bit parts as Shaun's step-parents who are also completely out of touch with the world. Kevin Kline has a great bit part as the author who inspires Shaun to become a writer and tells him exactly what he wants to hear.After that, this is just quality film-making by good people. Jake Kasdan (son of Lawrence Kasdan) directed this and his style shines all the way through. I first became a fan of his after his work on the TV show Freaks and Geeks, which is rather similar to this movie in that it deals with the wackiness of teen life in a knowing way. The writer Mike White also wrote a few episodes of Freeks and Geeks, which if you haven't seen, I highly suggest you do as it just hit DVD. Kasdan knows where to put the laughs, but he also knows how to moderate them and not make it a wacky teen orgy fest like the American Pie movies which are motivated only by teen libidos rather than real ambitions. The movie has a good story, and it is well told. In the end, there is nothing groundbreaking in Orange County. It's a pretty straightforward teen movie with a realistic plot and great performances. With another American Pie-type cast with emphasis on the goofiness, this movie would've been a low-grade teen sex flick. Instead we have a real story about ambition and teen life with a few falls off of roofs and vases falling on heads. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Best comedy I've seen in ages.","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have laughed so hard or so frequently in so long, too long. Orange County is quite possibly one of the best comedies of the past few years. I absolutely love it. To be honest I had little faith in Jake Kasdan after Zero Effect (which had Zero Effect on me) but this movie shows he has a real sense of humor and he balances it perfectly with outrageous characters and an untypically good-natured comedy plot.Shaun Brumner (Colin Hanks in a wacky performance) is refused entry to Stanford University because his dunderheaded College Counsellor mailed them the wrong the transcripts. He recruits his slobbish brother (an even wackier Jack Black) and his girlfriend to help him in increasingly desperate and far-fetched methods of convincing Stanford to reconsider. It may sound like a dumb story but the characters and situations surrounding it provoke the maximum amount of laughter.The two leads are particularly impressive and show natural comic genius that makes me beg for more from these characters. Keep a look out for loads of cameos from Chevy Chase, Harold Ramis, Ben Stiller and Kevin Kline. And it's loads better than that crappy O.C. TV show.The DVD is in 1.781 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5.1 sound. The extras are great with a commentary from Kasdan, deleted scenes which actually should have stayed in the movie and loads of TV spots with scenes especially created. You must get this. Everybody needs to laugh and laugh you will.  "},{"Title":"It's a lot better than you might think it is.","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw Orange County as a trailer, I thought it was just another teen movie. So I rented it and was surprised. It actually was pretty good. The movie had big and minor names and a sensible plot. Shaun Brumder was a likeable character and was very much like a modern day Holden Caulfield.It was laugh out loud hilarious with a different kind of comedy because it was ACTUALLY FUNNY.Overall, Orange County is a great movie if your tired and need a laugh.Or if you're a big fan of Jack Black or Ben Stiller. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County is a good movie. Not bad, not neccesarily great, but a good hour and a half of entertainment. It's got charm and sophistication. It's also got two young actors that need to be in more movies Colin Hanks, son of Tom Hanks, and Schuyler Fisk, Sissy Spacek's daughter. These two young actors have wonderful moments, and they play it straight. Jack Black is zany, and the other comic actors have good cameos Chevy Chase, Harold Ramis, and an unbilled Kevin Kline as Marcus Skinner. Mike White's script is coming-of-age crossed with teeanage comedy. Also, the director, Jake Kasdan, son of Lawrence Kasdan, is perfect in setting up the story. All in all, after seeing this movie, I felt I had had a good time watching a movie. Go rent it. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"brilliant cast with laugh after laugh","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With an amazing cast, dialogue that makes us really laugh, and a brilliant soundtrack, I can't believe this movie isn't rated higher!  It's close to perfect - Colin Hanks, Schuyler Fisk, John Lithgow, Catherine O'Hara and Jack Black... what can you say???  Then there's the Chevy cameo and Kevin Kline!  Please watch it again and upgrade your vote... "},{"Title":"I had low expectations and was surprised","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I feel that I should explain 2 things before I give my opinion of this movie 1) I don't expect much from a MTV production and 2) I went to see this movie just to see Colin Hanks, because of his role as Alex Whitman in Roswell.I was surprised and impressed with Colin Hanks, and Schuyler Fisk who I had not seen in anything.  Both of whom played characters that actually had some depth.  They actually wanted to go to college not just get laid or marry someone rich.I found the movie light and funny, full of great cameosIf you are expecting to see a lot of Jack Black you may be disappointed. He only has a supporting role.  But hilariously funny as usual.I also wish that they had kept Colin's hair off of his face, like in some of the beach scenes.  The whole bangs thing just, just&#133;. I just didn't like it.Worth the rental fee for the cameos, Jack Black, some off color jokes and some of the lines the supporting actors have.DVD has some great deleted scenes and explains why some of the ads showed things that were not in the movie.  "},{"Title":"Dude!","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I came home from a hard day of work, and to tell the truth, I needed a melt down. That's maybe the only reason why I enjoyed this movie. Because I seriously had my doubts renting it, but I think that Jack Black is a very funny actor. All I needed was a good laugh and I got it. True, this is one of those Dude, where's my brain? movies. Sometimes you just need those though. The people I work with told me that this was a pretty stupid movie, and it is. But I think people shouldn't be in a serious mood for this movie. For an intelligent comedy or a good movie kind of day, no. This is not the movie for you, but if you need a meltdown after a hard day, then by all means give this movie a chance. It's really not that bad, and you get more than a few laughs. But still, if I were Colin Hank's character, I think I still would've wanted to go to Standford. D 7/10 "},{"Title":"A likeable, well-acted comedy","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County is not as funny as American Pie, but that's all right.  The movie has its share of ridiculous, over-the-top gags (A dean of admissions high on ecstasy, for example), but it's far more interested in its characters than its jokes, a refreshing change of pace for this type of movie.  The material's supported by some very good performances,  especially from leads Colin Hanks and Jack Black.Hanks plays Shaun, a high school senior who desperately wants to escape his horrible upper middle class life in Orange County for literary pursuits under his favorite writer, Marcus Skinner, who is a professor at Stanford University.  But his guidance counselor (Lily Tomlin) botches his application, leaving Shaun relying on the assistance of his stoner brother Lance (Black) and his selfish father (John Lithgow).You have no doubt heard that Colin Hanks is the son of famous acting father Tom.  Even if connections got him the job, you cannot deny that he puts in a strong lead performance (Even if it does have some echoes of his dad's likeable everyman persona).  Comedy stars like Catherine O'Hara, Chevy Chase, Garry Marshall, all put it nice small pieces, but it is Jack Black who owns most of the funniest moments in the film.  His mere presence in a scene can make it funny; often he brings out laughs with a look or a eyebrow twitch.The film gets a little sappy and formulaic as it heads toward its conclusion; Shaun's reaction when he meets his hero is spot-on, but their conversation about his story feels wrong; and the inevitable ending is what you pretty much expect as soon as that initial rejection letter arrives at Shaun's door.  Professor Skinner put it best; My one complaint - You need an ending.Orange County needed a stronger, more unusual ending to compliment the offbeat, but very enjoyable vibe the rest of the of the movie gives off.  Still, I found myself completely entertained until the end, and left really appreciating the fine writing and acting, and even wishing the movie was a little longer.  And that doesn't happen too often. "},{"Title":"Hollow Peel","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie suffers from what many modern (post 2000) slacker comedies are stricken with the Anything Goes syndrome. There are few bounds in this independent film directed by Jake Son of Lawrence Kasdan, featuring cameos from Chevy Chase, Lily Tomlin and Lawrence's own stock actor, Kevin Kline. The story centers on a young man from... yep, Orange County, California, who spends his careless youth surfing and partying; then reads a book that changes his life and, along with a dream to become a writer, really wants to attend Stanford University to meet the book's author who works there. Along the way this desire (i.e. the plot) is outshined by the wacky side-characters, including two Beavis and Buttheadish surfer pals; a drunk mother (Catherine O'Hara) married to a crippled old man; a selfish father (John Lithgow) married to a gorgeous young trophy; and a stoner brother played by Jack Black (who's not in the movie as much as is promoted) - all vying to outdo each other on screen. When the main character - played by bland Colin Hanks, son of Tom - finally arrives at the college of his dreams, within ten minutes he's accidentally given the dean of admissions (a portly Harold Ramis) enough X to blind a horse, and to top it off, his zany drugged-out brother (using every stoner cliché in the book including the usual WOW!) burns the admissions building to the ground. Nothing really matters at this point, and yet we have another (drawn-out and totally useless) half-an-hour to go. All the things that should have been peripheral eccentricities, which end up leaping to the foreground of every scene, are symptoms of that disease I already mentioned Anything Goes... Which can be, as in this case, fatal. That is, without that one cure, substance... Something this movie has very little of. "}{"Title":"THE YEAR'S FIRST MUST-SEE COMEDY","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***ORANGE COUNTY (2001) ***1/2 Colin Hanks, Jack Black, Schuyler Fisk, Catherine O' Hara, John Lithgow, George Murdock, Lillian Hurst, Carly Pope, Leslie Mann, Jane Adams, Garry Marshall, Dana Ivey, Mike White.  (Cameos Lily Tomlin, Chevy Chase, Harold Ramis, Ben Stiller, Kevin Kline)  (Dir Jake Kasdan)Nepotism runs rampant - and guiltily so - as does a smorgasbord of big-time cameos by an incredibly eclectic assortment of onscreen talent in this hysterically funny comedy, the first of the new year and easily so far the first must-see.First things first yes the film stars Tom Hanks' son Colin (best known for his stint on tv's Roswell and in one of his dad's Band of Brothers episodes), Sissy Spacek's daughter Schuyler and is directed by filmmaker Lawrence Kasdan's son Jake but that shouldn't be a mitigating factor since all three have established their careers already and acquit themselves beautifully here in this rambunctiously outrageous comedy.Colin (who has some uncanny characteristics if not his spitting image of his dad) stars as Sean Brumder,  a beleaguered high school senior who's life is in turnaround in the titular zone of California's L.A. community where he discovers that surfing the good life isn't all that it's cracked up to be (especially after one of his good friends drowns in a surfing accident in a tsunami of Perfect Storm dimensions!) Sean's wake-up call comes about when he unearths (literally) a paperback copy of Straight Jacket a Catcher in The Rye-ish novel about the teenage condition that he absorbs whole-heartedly to the conclusion that becoming a writer will be his salvation. Sean makes it his life's work to get the hell out of the weighted down idiocy and primping caricatures of his current existence in high school with its share of bitchy cheerleaders (i.e. the Gina Gershon lite yet totally sexy hottie Pope);  burn-outs and airheaded faculty members (White, who wrote the witty screenplays, co-stars as Sean's literature teacher who believe Shakespeare adaptations to include Gladiator among other mistakes. His solace and key to escape is applying to Stanford University that should be aced with his impeccable transcripts he enlists his guidance counselor (Tomlin in a dithering comic display of forgetfulness) who unbeknownst to him fails to submit his resume correctly. Sean's homelife only adds to his misery.  His older brother Lance (the always welcome breath of anarchy, Black having a ball in sloth here), a perpetually stoned sloven couch potato and his besotted, slattern mom Cindy (the wonderful O' Hara) who is divorced from his money-hungry dad Bud (Lithgow as an indifferent insufferable stuffed shirt) and married to the elderly invalid Bob Beugler (Murdock).  The only supportive one he can rely on is his girlfriend Ashley (Fisk who shares her mom's freckles and sweet optimism), an environmentalist granola and sandals type neohippie who wants to study in one of the community colleges instead, causing some unwarranted grief for Sean to overcome as well. When Sean discovers he's been turned down by Stanford due to his paperwork insufficiently forwarded he attempts several times to rectify the job and each time with escalating daisy chain of horrifyingly funny and outlandish sequence of events largely due to the well meaning but idiotic Lance.The film works on a layered balance of clever dialogue, an engaging lead, a vastly talented ensemble of characters that must be seen to be believed, and a who's who of comic talent shining brightly in this highly engaging comedy of errors.  Hanks shares his pop for gift in becoming apoplectic and channels him with his high voice in panic mode and on occasion resembles him in odd angles here and there.  Black showcases his heir to the throne of slobs-with-hearts-of-gold as Lance, arguably the funniest stoner since Sean Penn's Spicoli in Fast Times at Ridgemont High with his unkempt hair, Nicholsonian eyebrows at full tilt and the body of Belushi via an Old Testament prophet in this latest incarnation of Gen X seediness.  The laughs are plentiful and often come out of nowhere. White's screenplay is sneaky in its attacks and one liners (Lithgow calling his ex Coyote Ugly in one quick breath established a slew of laughter in the audience I attended) and Kasdan's assured yet unassuming camerawork allows slapstick on the peripheral - often out-of-focus- to eventually take over the proceedings at hand. It helps that both White and Kasdan collaborated before on the late, greatly lamented tv sitcom Freaks & Geeks. A cash crop in a new year is a promising sign for comedy to come down the pike in quite some time.  "},{"Title":"A young intelligent boy who dreams of getting into Stanford","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must say out of all the comedies I have ever seen in my life Orange County was by far the best one! I could not stop laughing the whole time, the acting in this movie is phenomenal I feel all the actors did such a great job on their part in the movie. The movie starts out with a young but very intelligent guy who is about to be a high school graduate but he doesn't care about school at this point nothing but hanging out with his friends and partying until Shaun discovers a book on the beach written by an author named Marcus Skinner that moves something deep inside him that encourages him to want to become this professional writer Shaun then makes it his mission to get into Stanford and to meet Marcus Skinner in person. Shaun has so many personal issues among his terrible dysfunctional family that causes so much chaos throughout the movie. His brother is played by the famous Jack black who is the person who truly makes the movie so interesting and funny. Shaun has a girlfriend that tries to help him along the way to get into Stanford but somehow terrible things keep happening but if you will stay tuned you will fall in love with this movie, it has great humor and it will be a movie that you will be talking about for years to come don't miss out on this one! I don't want to put any spoilers in here so there is a lot of detail left out but there is enough in here to show you what the main plot is in the movie, hope anyone that watches will enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of My All Time Favorite Comedies; A Classic","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" How this movie has an average rating of 6.1 at the time of me writing this review is beyond me. The semi-serious base story of Shaun, a high schooler trying to get into Stanford is a good enough drama on its own, but then you ad the social commentary (albeit exaggerated...maybe)on the southern California mindset with an all star cast including Jack Black Lily Tomlin and Chevy Chase the movie becomes outrageously funny. I think Colin Hanks is an excellent actor (I have no idea why he has all but disappeared in the last 10 years), and does a bang up job of being the one kid in school who actually cares about his education all the while being pulled away by his numb-skull surfer buddies. Another of the cast who seems to have disappeared is Schuylar Fisk who plays Shaun's girlfriend Ashley. Ashley is the overly positive sweetheart girlfriend who will support Shaun through thick and thin. This is honestly one of Jack Black's funniest performances. He plays Shaun's druggie dead beat brother and when he gets mixed up in Shaun's quest for Stanford, hilarity compounds! Even 10 years after the movie was released I still laugh out loud watching this! "},{"Title":"Charming and unconventional - sort of like orange itself","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shaun Brumder (Colin Hanks) is an abnormally bright child. A kid whose schoolwork comes naturally to him and grades were never something to sweat over. But instead of trying to lead an ambitious life, Shaun chooses to spend his days surfing and hanging out with his pals. But when his best friend Lonny is killed in a surfing accident, Shaun contemplates if this direction is the best one to pursue. He later discovers a novel, written by a man named Marcus Skinner, on the beach one day, reads it cover to cover, and loves every minute of it. Upon reading it a dozen more times, and practicing writing similar stories on his own, he realizes that he has a talent for writing and ultimately that's what he wants to become.Shaun's homelife is a rather strange one. His parents are divorced, with his mother (Catherine O'Hara) being a sensitive, needy woman and his father (John Lithgow) a selfish and unruly cad. Shaun's brother is Lance (Jack Black), a portly stoner who is rarely seen fully clothed. Lance continues to offer advice to Shaun, which he will inherently disregard as rambling with no meaning, yet this isn't one of those stories where the dopey character may actually be smarter than we believe. He's just dumb.Our hero's dream, however, is to get accepted to Stanford and major in journalism. His girlfriend, the neighborhood activist Ashley (Schuyler Fisk) is all support, but his chances seemingly plummet downward when his guidance counselor sends the wrong transcript to Stanford. Instead of the bright and dedicated student they should receive, the school accepts some ne'er-do-well stoner who applied on a whim.Orange County follows Shaun as he tries in every which way to get accepted to Stanford and pursue a life of intellect and creativity. One thing that becomes the top priority on his list is escaping the inherently listless and seemingly mundane town of Orange County, where nobody takes anything with an ounce of seriousness and everyone seems to be self-indulgent and careless.This is a film with a big agenda, a clear heart, but an often misunderstood soul, mainly because its headliner, Jack Black, doesn't deliver the laughs you would expect. Orange County is not an energetic, high-octane romp, but a sweet and endearing character study that is equal parts sly comedy and equal parts dramatic and deep. A scene comes early on in the film where Shaun is wasting away in a class and his teacher is asking the students if they know anyone who would be interested in speaking to the school about personal experiences. Shaun proposes a writer who has just received a high honor, but is quickly one-upped by another classmate who has connections to Brittney Spears. This scene illustrates so discretely and subtly how motivated and turned on we get as a society by popularity and publicity rather than true talent and admiration.Colin Hanks, an actor still searching for that breakout role, handles the task here beautifully, even with the challenge and notable burden of carrying a lion's weight of a film on his back. He's no idiot. His character rarely misses a beat and is a calming and simple pleasure to endure. So is his brother, despite his slow, uninspiring persona. Orange County has an indescribable beauty and charm to its screenplay, one that offers an experience that is fresh and viable, and definitely unconventional.Starring Colin Hanks, Jack Black, Schuyler Fisk, Catherine O'Hara, John Lithgow, and Lily Tomlin. Directed by Jake Kasdan. "},{"Title":"The start of a new breed of Coming of Age tales.","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Where as this isn't an original Coming of Age story, Orange County brings about a dynamic story line, that transforms the classic Coming of Age tale, into a new breed that similar movies follow in it's footsteps such as Sex Drive and I Love You Beth Cooper.With an intricate set of characters, including a very hairy Jack Black, and a dilemma that has even the main character worried whats not to love about Orange County.Had me laughing, and truly enthralled in the characters and what scheme they were going to come up with next.Not only does this movie have a developed story line but it is filled with an all star cast such as Colin Hanks and Jack Black, with some special appearances from John Lithgow (3rd Rock from the Sun) and Chevy Chase (Caddyshack).Like I said before truly a new comical breed or the Coming of Age tale. "},{"Title":"Orange County is decent, but Jack Black's wardrobe isn't.","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I doubt that anyone had real high hopes for this year's first teen flick -- mainly due to the mentioning of MTV in the company credits -- but it was actually pretty decent. Sure, Jack Black is just an obnoxious John Belushi/Chris Farley imitator, but he DID deliver a few laughs -- and a lot of cringes as he walks around the house wearing nothing but his tighty-whities in search of a urine sample. There is an obvious relation between Colin Hanks' acting and his father's, but I just hope he'll get an opportunity to show the true extent of his talent in a serious drama. I've always been a fan of Kevin Kline's (especially in one of my favorite comedies, A Fish Called Wanda) and he made a nice cameo appearance in Orange County. Another hilarious cameo is made by the genius of modern comedy, Harold Ramis (director Caddyshack, Groundhog Day). The screenplay is nothing new, but hey... what did you expect? I suppose the main thing that helped me overcome the many flaws of Orange County is the fact that it never thought it was greater than it really was. Many of this year's movies (i.e. Spider-Man) believe themselves to be ingenious works of filmmaking, when they are really nothing but aimless and pointless. Orange County is aimless and pointless, also, but it never pretends to be anything more. And in a day and age where Scooby-Doo labels itself a comedic masterpiece, Orange County is a fun and goofy romp, and a surprising breath of fresh air.Overall rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"I Hid My Face in Shame as I Left the Theater","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This flick confirmed many lingering suspicions, and none too pleasant  1) Jack Black is a great comedic character actor who can easily be strangled by a poor script (he's at his best when he can bounce off of comedy writers like David Cross and Bob Odenkirk);  2)anything produced by MTV pictures is destined to suck;  3) an all-star cast (John Lithgow, Kevin Kline, Catherine O'Hara, Harold Ramis, Chevy Chase, Lily Tomlin) should be a signal that the material can't stand on its own.What else can we expect from a parent company whose idea of music television is softcore porn (_Undressed_) and _the Real World_ in a Winnebago (_Road Rules_)?This is one of those rare cases where if you've seen the commercials you haven't seen the movie.  You know how ads nowadays tend to give away all of the jokes?  Not this one.  And for two reasons  1) there are very few jokes, and 2) most scenes in the ads aren't even in the movie (I'm this guy...I'm not getting into your college..., You have to make love to the camera, like 'Hey Stanford, what's up? You want some of this? You know you do', etc. -- not in the movie!)The ad campaign makes you think that this is a comedic romp about a kid trying to get into college, and the slacker brother who helps along the way. The two could have been a great team, Colin Hanks as the straight man, Jack Black as the character he is.  But this was not a comedy.  This was heart-warming pablum masquerading as entertainment.Everything comes together in the end in the most predictable of ways. Everyone learns a valuable lesson, the sick are healed, the heavens part, and the soundtrack is on sale at your local record store.  And that's what really matters, now isn't it?  I won't give anything away though, because the plot will reveal itself immediately.You need to know this, though  the movie was written by Mike White.  At first you might think, _Chuck and Buck_...critical praise...independent film.  But he also wrote _Dawson's Creek_ and the film _Dead Man on Campus_.  And it shows.And as bizarre as this is, the song Butterfly by Crazy Town, was featured three times with no explanation.  First you have a scene break and suddenly there are these teen movie cheerleaders doing a choreographed dance to the song, all looking into the camera like a music video as if to say, I want you now, 15 year old in the audience.  I was put into this movie to distract you from this films many faults.Later, Colin's girlfriend is singing the song to herself with her headphones on, in a scene that was only put in the movie to introduce a dog (following the formulaic nature of the film, the producers must have said, people loved the dog in _There's Something About Mary_... we need a crazy dog too).And lastly Colin meets a new girl who invites him to the obligatory college party. Suddenly Butterfly begins to play and she and her friends go nuts screaming, it's our song!  They proceed to do the same choreographed dance as the cheerleaders, looking seductively into the camera.  And you watch this and ask yourself why?  What does this have to do with the movie? It's clearly an attempt to sell this song as the lead single of the film.I'm thinking of writing Jack Black to get my $6 back.  He got $2 million for this pile of garbage.  He can afford it. "},{"Title":"ORANGE COUNTY ROCKS!!!!!!!!!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen the movie Orange County,brace your self,4 times!I saw it the day it came out,the next day(saturday),and the next day on Sunday twice!It may sound obsessive but I loved that movie.It has a great cast,plot,screenplay,characters,and outline.It stars my all time favorite actor the son of the wonderful Tom Hanks,Colin Hanks,also jack black,catherine o` hara,john lithgow,and schuyler fisk.It also has many camio`s by Ben Stiller,Kevin Kline,Chevy Chase,and lily tomlin.It is a light hearted movie with so many great laughs that will leave you on the floor and cracking-up.It does not have those gross jokes only one or two.The acting is very good and by the end of the movie you will love all the characters.I hope that you will enjoy this movie and not put in down like all the critics have.ORANGE COUNTY ROCKS!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Very likable","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Finally, a movie that rivals The Breakfast Club for watchability! Wonderful script and great acting!  Jack Black is fun to watch and this script allows him to take full advantage of the zany character.  Go into watching this movie for the pure entertainment (read laughter) value -- after all that's what movies are for. "},{"Title":"A comedy with heart","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not usually a fan of MTV movies(and I absolutely hate the MTV Movie Awards). On the bright side they've managed to make three fantastic movies-Election, School Of Rock, and Orange County.Colin Hanks the son of Tom Hanks gives a riveting performance as Shuan Braumder who is a character almost all people can relate to as he strives for a better future as he embarks on a mission to get accepted into Stanford University to become an author while dealing with his hilariously dysfunctional family and the angst of teenhood.Ornage County is emotionally inspiring, hilarious and features great performances from Catherine O'Hara, John Lithgow, Schuyler Fisk, and Jack Black. A near perfect movie that should not be missed. "}{"Title":"Great movie despite the awful stuff at the beginning","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Orange County is an amazing teen flick. It's very riveting and spirit lifting. I mostly liked it to see the uncredited cameo of Kevin Kline playing Marcus Skinner. When Shaun (Colin Hanks) picked up Marcus's book, I got excitedly struck when Kevin's voice said Read me. I was shocked. I thought of the great times that I had when I was in high school. In situations where it's involved with drugs, it made me think of Alice in Wonderland because many people who took drugs think that it's something you watch when you take them. In a Disney UK opening of a VHS, a voice mentioned it as Where nothing is as it seems. I also didn't realize that Schuyler Fisk is the daughter of Sissy Spacek and Jack Fisk. I had to find it funny when Don Durkett took the pain medicine and acted like he was woozy. I'm not so much into Romeo and Juliet. 2 of my 7 men made uncredited cameo appearances. Kevin of course as I mentioned earlier played Marcus Skinner and Ben Stiller played a firefighter. On the back of the DVD I brought home it wrote Martin Skinner. That's a typing error. In scenes where Shaun met Marcus, I had to pretend to be him (Shaun) and say stuff like My hands are numb. My legs are shaking. And my heart is racing. I say that because that was how I felt when I met Kevin at age 16. It's sort of a mixture of I think of random stuff and I think of the wonderful times I've had with him. The only thing I would change for this is to make Marcus a bigger role and Kevin's name on the credits of any kind. Then at least I would enjoy it more. But that would've been a spoiler alert so I'm pleased that it's uncredited. I imagined myself seeing it on the big screen in 2002 and I would've sat and enjoyed the movie. Then I get surprised and shocked that he makes a cameo and people would ask Is that Kevin Kline? If I did, I would've never see him as anything but as Phoebus. Now I see him as more than that. Throughout the course of the film, I kept hoping that Shaun would get into Stanford. Then at the end of it, I realized the difference and said No. Let him stay in Orange County so that he can spend time with is friends and Ashley. This is amazing. "},{"Title":"The County of Jack Black","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Orange County (2002) Dir Jake Kasdan / Cast Colin Hanks, Schuyler Fisk, Jack Black, Catherine O'Hara, John Lithgow A place or happening for the good of inspiration as Colin Hanks discovers a book in the sand that spellbinds him into pursuing a career in writing. He applies at Stanford but the counsellor sent the wrong transcript thus leading to the standard road adventure to set the record straight. The screenplay is simplistic but director Jake Kasdan plays up screwball references. This is his second film, his first being Zero Effect. Hanks does a superb job at mirroring his frustration at family, school and the yearning to succeed. Schuyler Fisk uses blackmail to assist Hanks. It is obvious that she is set up as the potential girlfriend by end credits, and her dog rescue scene is totally unnecessary. Jack Black is hilarious as Hanks's drug addict brother who means well but often makes bad situations worse. Catherine O'Hara plays his alcoholic mother who further complicates Hanks's dream of emotional peace. John Lithgow plays his wealthy father who divorced his wife and married a much younger woman. Strong theme regarding inspiration reflected here as Hanks draws upon personal issues with his family to visualize his work. In the end one can appreciate the people in their life because, as reflected here, they are the ones that create life's most noticeable plot turns. Score 6 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Under-rated Comedy","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The reason I think this movie tends to be under-rated is because of the title and the fact that slacker surfing culture is the sub-strata of the story.Orange County could have been better (and perhaps taken more seriously) if the character of Shaun Brumder had been developed more fully 1.) Why did he acquire an attraction, nay obsession, with writing? 2.) What fueled and motivated him? 3.) Just what kind of story was Orange County (auto-biography? fiction based on a true story?, something else)?The fact that Shaun's character is not fully-developed is revealed most immediately during the important and excellent scene with him and Mr. Skinner (Kevin Klein). Mr. Skinner describes what he sees as the lesson or moral of Shaun's story and asks, Is that what you were aiming for? Shaun looks at him somewhat blankly and doesn't know how to respond.Besides the fleshing-out of what makes Shaun tick, another positive alteration in the script and direction would have been to have given Schuyler Fisk (as girlfriend Ashley) a larger part, allowing her to interact intimately, meaningfully and intensely with Shaun, forcing him to identify those things and people in life that mean the most to him. Fisk's acting ability is definitely equal to the task.I laughed out loud at least six times during this movie My loudest coming when a single phrase was uttered by Shaun's surfer friend as he sees a towering, mammoth wave curling over him, ready to crash, and ultimately, kill him.Don't get me wrong Although I think Orange County could have been better by writing a more in-depth character around Shaun, it is still a well-acted, cohesive, seamless comedy that compels us to think twice about our ambitions and how they may conflict with the relationships we have established and should honor more.Jack Black is as funny as ever. Kevin Klein's character is potent and profound enough to base a sequel on, perhaps, as Shaun is in the midst of his writing career (and Mr. Skinner has writer's block).The inclusion of the character Bob in Orange County, I take exception to. His character showed the only real black humor in the movie and I consider his part a show of triteness and viciousness on the part of the screenwriter. These kinds of relationships do happen, though; an attractive lady marrying an old man for his wealth.., but it disturbed me none-the-less.John Lithgow, as Shaun's father, was commanding and superbly-casted. Catherine O'Hara, as Shaun's mom, did a spectacular job as a sometimes-functional human being.If the characters in Orange County lacked a sense of sobriety and searing self-honesty most of the time, there was some rectification by the solidifying, coalescing, grounding scene between Shaun and Prof. Skinner. Maybe more importantly, Skinner compels Shaun to make the right decision in his life, a hard one at that To admit that everything he needs is already inside of him. In just a few short words, Shaun gets the education he had so-dearly sought. A thoughtful and potential ending. Make no mistake. This is not a surfing hijinx movie. "},{"Title":"Good comedy but Colin Hanks may not be up to it","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Jake Kasdan and writer Mike White create a very broad comedy about Shaun Brumder (Colin Hanks)'s desperate need to get into Stanford. The incompetent guidance counselor mistakenly sends in the wrong transcript, and Shaun is promptly rejected. This leads a series of crazy adventure to change the rejection.Dopey haired Colin Hanks may not be up to playing in this outlandish comedy. The school is chalk full of stereotypes. But Colin seems to be too vanilla white to hold the screen.Shaun's girlfriend Ashley (Schuyler Fisk) and his drugged-out loser brother Lance (Jack Black) are there to help him out. At times it feels like an inside joke for California kids. Of course Ashley is an over the top animal lover. And Jack Black is completely a 2-Dimensional druggie. At least Jack Black would hook up with Mike White for The School of Rock 1 year later. "},{"Title":"A Fair Entertainer...","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Orange County' is A Fair Entertainer, that offers some genuine laughs in the goings-on. Also, the performances, by all the actors, are perfect. 'Orange County' Synopsis A guidance counselor mistakenly sends out the wrong transcripts to Stanford University under the name of an over- achieving high schooler.Mike White's Screenplay is Funny in parts. But, I felt, the culmination of this comedy seemed uneven. It's very clichéd and hardly leaves any impact. Jake Kasdan's Direction is passable. Cinematography is good. Editing is average. Performance-Wise Colin Hanks delivers a very natural performance. Jack Black is excellent as his good-for-nothing brother. Catherine O'Hara & John Lithgow are efficient. Schuyler Fisk is sincere. Kevin Kline, Chevy Chase & Ben Stiller appear in brief cameos. On the whole, A Fair Comedy. "},{"Title":"ruined by the 'comedy'","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Generally, I don't enjoy comedy films. Slapstick is lost on me and I don't buy into OTT and/or unlikely plot devices. It was, as always, the comedy aspect of this movie that ruined it for me. The premise of an aspiring writer endeavouring to be accepted to his dream university after being rejected isn't bad and I was definitely optimistic at the outset. However, most of the events leading to his rejection (his adviser sent the wrong transcript) and inability to change that (his brother burning down the university) aren't particularly plausible or realistic. I found the frustration / unbelievably dynamic quite awkward most of the time too. Thee somewhat trite realisation that he didn't have to leave home at the end of the movie didn't ring true for me either. This movie was saved from being really bad by some pretty funny Jack Black moments. I didn't think there was much else here, though. In its favour, I suppose it is easy enough to get through. "},{"Title":"Orange County","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Orange County is a movie about a kid trying to figure out what he wants to do with his life. After the passing of one of his friends he abandons his old easy going surfer life style stereo typical of where he is from (orange county) and dedicates his life to writing. His goal was to go to Stanford and escape the dysfunctional home and town he grew up in. The movie starts out kind of stupid, but Jack Black was kind of funny in his same old roll as a fat crazy guy. The main character and his crazy day sort of reminded me of a mix of the catcher in the rye and Ferris Bueller's day off. For some reason I just enjoyed watching the movie and it seemed like a good length, with a good beginning, middle, and end.http//thp-moviereviews.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not Another American Pie !","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At first it looks just like any high school comedy you've ever watched especially during the 2000s as followings of the new godfather of the genre (American Pie &#x96; 1999) which I despise. But afterwards you'd find out that it's totally something else.. something better as a comedy with a great message.. Yes great ! Can you imagine waiting for something great in any contemporary high school comedy ? At this one you can.Maybe it's the most marvelous story for that kind of movies, a rare exceptional one without the same idiot work about some idiot students which is full of the usual quantity of bad taste, the ordinary amount of sex jokes and the regular irregular images of young Americans ! It is one funny movie indeed which will live longer than its likes not only because its solid atmosphere or smart script but basically for its main motif. It's about a middle class disintegrated family with tones of problems and one talented kid who wants to get away from all of this to make his own separate career as a writer, however he must get through that journey to discover one hell of a neglected fact about how he needs his family and his family needs him as everyone wanting the other to cure oneself, so he must run to his home not out of it ! I believe that the creative writer can't create honestly when he gets out of his original experiences, or his basic cases that he can't escape from them. So the clever meaning which (Orange County) simply poses is that the talented author is the one who creates from his people and for them. In fact the way of the movie to present this was plainly and soberly.Despite whatever looked as indecent or trite in dealing with its characters, it was unlike nearly all the kind's comedies, having some rationality that could proficiently keep the humanity of the characters and their sick pathetic conditions with the ability to mock at their sad ironic features or acts in the same time, but without losing the beautiful deep message or being that busy all the time of making only gross laughs.I loved all the cast as maybe the best ever for a small nice movie like this. I must refer to (Kevin Kline). He did such unforgettable job even it was a 4 or 5 minutes appearance as the real mentor who came with the golden answer for the errant hero late at his journey, to discover the truth and then to choose.. to make the last decision.It's not the Odessa ! But also it's not -God Forbid&#x96; another American Pie ! It's one commercial light comedy with expressly good message too. And if you ask me that is truly scarce nowadays ! "},{"Title":"Orange County does exactly what it's trying to do","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Orange County is definitely off-pudding for its teen-comedy genre placement. It still belongs there, but there is a bit more to it. Combining goofy slapstick, irony, and some actual insight with very few gaps, Orange County manages to appeal to more than just one type of movie audience. Shaun, full of angst, intelligence, and most of all, difference, is one that is easy to relate to, creating some balance with the rest of the cast. He finally wakes up to the fact that he might actually have a purpose late in his high school career, and suddenly sells his surfboard and sets toward his goal of being a writer. The only way Shaun feels he can become a writer is by going to Stanford University. Orange County follows Shaun making attempts to put his name on Stanford's acceptance list after his transcript is switched with a student of a similar name. His alcoholic mom, junkie brother, and brainless friends are the only thing stopping him, creating scene after scene of disaster. There are definitely many lower-I.Q. moments, and a lot of time Orange County lacks realism, but the movie doesn't care. Some great lines delivered by Mike White, Jack Black, and Chevy Chase make up for some of the teen-comedy moments. The exaggerated characters are not only funny, but they help to prove the point that Orange County clearly makes (and that i don't want to ruin for you). "},{"Title":"A funny and sweet movie....sometimes also very stupid!","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Orange County looked like a terrible movie. Generally Mtv movies aren't very good, but this was a pleasant surprise. The acting was pretty good, and the writing was surprisingly funny.The plot of the film is pretty simple. Shaun (colin Hanks)decides to straighten up and fly right after his friend dies in a surfing accident. He gets good grades and tries to get into Stanford. When his transcript is accidentally switched with someone else's, he has to figure out a way to get in, so after all else fails, his brother Lance (Jack Black) drives him to Stanford and chaos ensues. In all it's stupidity it actually does produce quite a lot of laughs. I even found myself laughing at some of the stupid jokes, often because of excellent delivery. And even beneath it's silly exterior, it has a big heart and relatable situations. Catherine O'Hara and John Lithgow play the separated parents that try to get back together. Shaun's brother Lance is the stoner, who tries to help. The characters are over exaggerated, but relatable.This was a thoroughly enjoyable film with a great back-up cast full of veteran actors and comedians including Garry Marshall, Harold Ramis, Lily Tomlin, Chevy Chase, Kevin Kline, Ben Stiller and many others.My rating *** out of ****. 82 mins. PG-13 for drug use and some nudity. "}{"Title":"A film like no other...","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not gonna say that Orange County is a great film because it isn't. But it is an absolutely awesome film and one of my all time favourites. The characters are hilarious, the situations great, and the overall message of the film terrific.What I loved most about this film was how it is (in some ways) a very realistic coming of age comedy that strangely reflected my own life. There's been times when I've felt exactly like the main character and his actions are exactly what I wished I'd have done.If your a serious film watcher, give this one a miss, but if you want a easily enjoyable film experience go and watch Orange County. "},{"Title":"Forgettable and not very consistent, but a reasonably funny teen comedy","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" By the time I watched this film, I was aware of Jack Black's role in it, and was also familiar the songs, Defy You by The Offspring and The One by Foo Fighters, two songs included in the soundtrack. For those reasons, I figured the film was worth watching, so I watched it for the first time earlier this year. While it didn't turn out to be as good as I may have hoped for, I still laughed. Basically, it was the same when I watched it for the second time, just a couple nights ago.Shaun Brumder is a teenager who lives in Orange County, California. While at the beach one day, he finds a book left in the sand called Straight Jacket. After reading it, he decides that he wants to become an author, so he hopes to leave town and go to Stanford University after graduating from high school, where he can study with Marcus Skinner, the author of the novel he found a copy of at the beach. Unfortunately, the guidance counselor mixes up the transcripts, and Shaun does not make it into Stanford. Still determined, he struggles to get in, only to experience one mishap after another, sometimes caused by members of his embarrassing family (an alcoholic mother, a stoner brother, and a severely senile stepfather)! Orange County is a raunchy, silly, and often tasteless comedy, a kind of film which often comes from Hollywood nowadays, but also a kind which many detest. However, if this type of comedy usually appeals to you, then you could find that there are a good number of laughs to be had in this film, even if most of them are not that memorable. Jack Black as Lance Brumder is a big part of the humour in the film, doing some insane things, like accidentally setting a university building on fire, though he's certainly not responsible for ALL the laughs. I'm sure those who should stay as far away from this crude teen comedy as possible know who they are, but for viewers with a sick sense of humour, it could be fun, even if it's a tad forgettable. "},{"Title":"Napoleon Dynamite Lives in Orange County","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't remember the geographical location of Napoleon Dynamite and his family. But if you've seen that film, and liked it, you'll feel right at home in this neighborhood. And if you look down the street, you can see where Ferris Bueller lives.It's the same type of sensibilities between the three movies...youngsters are given an education in the way of the world by coming of age into a bizarre and seemingly out of control society, surrounded by kooks, where they learn to rely on themselves and make life what they want it to be.There are plenty of good laughs here. I was fortunate enough to see it on cable (Comedy Central) where a lot of the raunch, I suspect, has been edited out. So that's why I only gave it a 7, not wanting to give too high a rating to a movie that has been so heavily changed. But in its edited for TV form, it's not bad.The real shocker, and joy, comes only after you realize who the main players are, the son of Tom Hanks (you immediately feel he's familiar but don't know why until you see his father's face in his) and the daughter of Sissy Spacek. That's the great think about IMDb, learning those factoids that add so much to watching a film.So, if you're in the mood for a laugh and see Orange County on offerings on TV, watch it. You'll enjoy taking a trip through this familiar neighborhood and meeting some likable characters along the way. "},{"Title":"Silly, Sentimental Satire about a high school graduate . . .","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching director Jake Kasdan's take on teenage comedies in the PG-13 rated Orange County reminded me of those contemplative coming-of-age youth yarns John Hughes cranked out in the 1980s with Molly Ringwald and Matthew Broderick. This silly, sentimental satire about a high school graduate who dreams about attending Stanford University in sunny California, so he can study creative writing under an author he idolizes amounts to a contrived, half-squeezed comedy of errors. Refreshingly, Orange County relies less on gross-out body fluids buffoonery and more on crazy character flaws for its mirth. Unfortunately, Zero Effect director Jake Kasdan (son of The Big Chill helmer Lawrence Kasdan) and his wacky writer Mike White of Chuck and Buck fare better as comedians than as storytellers. When they serve up their laugh-out -loud jokes, they deliver them with crackerjack comic timing. On the other hand, their tale about a young writer who wants to move away from insulated Orange County, California, with its liberal lifestyles to seek greater things for himself and the resolution of conflicts in his far-out, dysfunctional family life qualifies as the typical pulp of a Walt Disney potboiler.Everything that can go wrong for goal-oriented Vista Del Mar High School class president Shaun Brumder (Tom Hanks' son Colin of Whatever It Takes) in Orange County does. Although he is a straight-A student, all Shaun lives for is surfing the waves with buds Chad (R.J. Knoll of Turbulence) and Arlo (Kyle Howard of House Arrest) until one of their pals perishes when a wave of tidal proportions washes him away. This tragedy prompts Shaun to take stock of his life. He sells his surfboard and takes up writing. One day at the beach, Shaun literally unearths a copy of Marcus Skinner's novel Straitjacket (no such book exists; it's a plot gimmick) and reads it repeatedly until he has every line memorized. When he discovers Skinner (Kevin Kline in a cameo) teaches creative writing at Stanford, Shaun asks his flaky high school counselor (Lily Tomlin at her hilarious best) to mail his scores to the university. Incredibly, she mixes up Shaun's A-plus transcript with another student's F- minus transcript. Naturally, Stanford rejects him. Nothing Shaun's animal activist girlfriend Ashley (Schuyler Fisk, Sissy Spacek's daughter of Snow Day) can do helps. Eventually, Shaun's black sheep, ten-toed sloth of a brother Lance (Jack Black of High Fidelity) comes to his rescue. Lance piles Ashley and Shaun into his truck, and they recklessly careen off to Stanford in a last ditch effort to crash the admissions office. Instead, pyromaniac Lance burns it down. Colin Hanks could easily follow in his father's footsteps. He makes a believable, ordinary, fall guy whose world tumbles down around him despite his best efforts, but somewhat manages to triumph. Nevertheless, heroic as the younger Hanks is, he cannot compete with subversive comic genius of Jack Black who swipes every scene as slobby Lance. Had the story been as ripe as the ridiculous gags, Orange County might have been a fresher farce. "},{"Title":"Charming,Fun and well worth your time......","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Orange County is a film that has probably been easily passed over, the story of a rich kid trying to get into Stanford probably isn't going to win you over. And the story *is* only half the movie. The other half is about the characters, the family surrounding protagonist Shaun (played by Colin Hanks, who is great and in my opinion under-rated) and his friends and girlfriend.Let me just tell you one thing this movie is funny. This movie is a comedy. But all of the characters and the actors who play them bring such diverse talents to the table it becomes a real ensemble piece.Most notably Catherine O'Hara and John Lithgow give hilarious performances as the alcoholic neurotic mother and overworked and helpless corporate father. Jack Black is probably, as always, the show stealer as Shaun's Brother Lance, whose good intentions always manage to shine through even though in reality he's a drug crazed lunatic;but a lovable one at that. Schyler Fisk and Colin Hanks play their parts wonderfully, and even though they are the 'straight' characters in the film they are still a joy to watch.Although secretly I'm a huge fan of Shaun's surfer buds, those guys are hilarious, if you've already seen the movie you'll know what I mean.If you haven't, well then you should!!!Orange County is a great movie, okay so it's not going to change the face of film comedy and probably isn't going to receive a cult following. But I could watch this film over and over and still laugh at every gag. The actors do a great job gliding through each one so effortlessly you feel like your watching a real dysfunctional family, but you also feel like you want to know them; something that is difficult to achieve.Bottom Line? See this movie. "},{"Title":"Well, duh!","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wanted to like Orange County, I really did. Any film featuring Lily Tomlin, John Lithgow and/or Jack Black is worth a look, but...To be honest, you'd be better off watching 9 to 5, Cliffhanger or even (dare I say) Mars Attacks to see these fine actors at work in something halfway decent. Orange County is just another post-modern take on the films of Frank Capra, despite the best efforts of its talented cast. Colin Hanks and Schuyler Fisk do a good job in their roles, although Fisk is in danger of getting typecast as a sunny, slightly kooky love interest. Quite a few veteran actors get little cameos in the film, but this merely elevates it to Curio level rather than conferring any real status.Writer Mike White creates some lovely sympathetic characters and comes up with some absurdly comic moments in Orange County, but the film is merely a train wreck in reverse and the viewer is forced to watch it laboriously reassemble itself in its last half hour. Everything comes good in the end. The hero learns a valuable lesson about life, his divorced parents are reunited, the vicious stray dog becomes a friendly puppy, the pain-wracked vegetable in the wheelchair manages a coherent sentence and everyone has a good old laugh. Despite all the drug and urine jokes, mild sexual content and abuse of the disabled, I still felt like I'd watched a 90-minute episode of The Brady Bunch. This is the second film that I've sat through that was scripted by Mike White (the other was pointless Aniston vehicle The Good Girl) and it will probably be my last. He is truly the AntiBlack. "},{"Title":"great entertainment movie","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't say that this is a Oscar nomination movie, but it was a very entertaining movie. Personally, I found it entertaining to compare the mannerisms and acting styles of Collin Hanks with those of his fathers' (Tom Hanks). He can't be considered as great of an actor as his father, but I can't think of any kids that excell beyond parents in a situation like this.I think that the movie was well done and well written. While many people notice that the infamous JACK BLACK was part of the cast, he was a supporting role. Not to say he wasn't great, but he was part of a greater cause. I say this because the supporting characters did an unbelievable job as a big part of the movie revolved around them. This movie isn't for everyone, but most intelligent people people can appreciate the story and characters "},{"Title":"Very Watchable","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Jack Black, Jack Black, Jack Black!! Its just all Jack Black! And not in a bad way! This is one of my favourite films of all time, its funny, charming, dramatic, and all in excess.Jack Black as the druggie was hilarious he got just the right balance of being stupid and then looking like an actually druggie. Colin Hanks was great, he sometimes expresses his dads ways of acting (Tom Hanks) but it doesn't bother me and i don't know why he isn't a very very big star.Also a nice little cameo from Ben Stiller. Watchi this for a laugh, and also a cry. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well it looks like another typical teen movie but actually its not. Under the regular teeny style story there is some deep messages about friendship, love, appreciation, and never giving up on dreams. The characters are well drawn and the cast is very well selected. The colors are great and the general atmospher is joyfull. The events are pacey in a good way so don't worry as you wont get bored at all.What make this movie great is that for example we oftenly hear things like ''Life is worthless if you're not going to do what you like'' but the movie make you live the experience and actually give these words a real thought and find out yourself if they are actually true or not. Its much better if you watch this one with friends or family. I recommend this for young people and trust me whatever your taste is you will like it. "},{"Title":"Jack Black is a kick-ass...","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I bought this DVD actually for a reason of Jack Black and short presence of Ben Stiller. Same reason I've bought Evil Woman. I enjoy performance of JB in almost every movie, so i was very wondering about new fresh flavor he'll add to this one. Did I like the story line? No, not at all! After plugging in the DVD and watching first 10 minutes of this movie, I was worried that the whole movie would be only about the youngsters and they're first kissing, holding hands, touching nipples, walking under moonlight etc. I try to spare my time and to avoid such crap. So, gladly JB got more space in this picture than I've expected, which is positive. He's presence placed it in comedy genre, without him Hanks-Junior wouldn't make it even watchable. So I'll give an 5, to make it 10 they need much more than JB presence, but also good script and fun that keep's you laugh even on next day. "}{"Title":"Good Overall Movie","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was more of a movie for kids, but I would not let my kids watch it because it contained drug and sexual innuendo. I liked it though. It is one that you can watch once, and say you've watched it. Jack Black plays the typical comic relief, and his part does not really come out until the end. Colin Hanks played the main roll well. I thought he and Jack Black did well as a team, when it came to the funny parts. In my opinion, the two of them should have played more of a roll as brother throughout the movie, rather in just bits and pieces. Then Cathorine O'Hara played a wonderful role as the girlfriend. Her acting pulls this movie together. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can relate as an aspiring writer much like the main character of this movie. Being originally from Washington DC, I've wished to relocate within SoCal. Thinking the weather and culture will change the way I write, not to mention the celebrated commerce of the entertainment industry, which would be a profound way to network without the long distance travel. Although all of my inspirations come from this swampy, humid, brisk environment all of my encouragements have come from this Shit Hole.Great... Movie!!!Thanks!! "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie begins slowly but once it gets going the sitcom works very well. The movie tells a story about a guy that doesn't get into college because somebody elses papers are sent there by mistake as his papers. From this incident begins his quest to get into that college. Movie includes good characters by Jack Black, John Lithgow and some others + some nice cameos. The story and message of the movie are good. I thought the message was that you don't need to get to a fancy school to be able to be what you want to be. But somebody understood the message like this Life is wonderfully complex, and regardless of what anyone tells you, there is no easy formula to having a good or happy life. "},{"Title":"Better Than Van Wilder","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I Have to admit, when my friends sat me down to watch this movie, I was expecting another Van Wilder, Road Trip, same-old=garbage teen movie. I was wrong... ish...First off, it had nothing to do with getting a chick, a score of chicks, or making trouble for authority figures/friends/schoolmates. It's about a guy that wants to get into college. Admirable.Secondly, Colin Hanks did a wonderful job. Add freaking John Litgow, Catherine O'Hara and Lily Tomlin, and you've got yourself a great movie right there.I expected Jack Black to play his usual idiotic character, and in that, I was right. Not that parts of it weren't amusing, just that he didn't really do anything that wasn't expected.All in all, an alright little movie. If you're wanting a teen movie, but don't want to sit through Van Wilder/She's All That clones over and over again, this would be the movie I recommend. "},{"Title":"funny and absurd","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is another one of those movies I rented after I saw School of Rock and discovered Jack Black is an amazing comic talent. This is a funny movie, and of course the presence of Black makes it even funnier. Movies don't all need to have some deep meaning in order to be good and this one's just plain funny and absurd. Almost every character in the film is lovable in his or her own right. It has it's moments of gross humor but it is mild in comparison to, let's say, the American Pie movies. It also stars John Lithgow, Catherine O'Hara and has some cameos from other famous people. Colin Hanks and Schuyler Fisk make a cute couple and there are many funny surprises. Not for the whole family although I suppose teenagers will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Tasty Flick","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great movie, one of the best i've ever seen. If you ever went to high school, you can relate to at least some aspect of this movie. If you haven't gone to high school, it's still a damn good movie. One of Jack Black's better roles i think, though i wish we could have seen more of him on screen. Off the soundtrack, you can find some tasty licks from the likes of the Offspring with Defy You and The Red Hot Chili Peppers Pretty Little Ditty making appearances. If you enjoyed this movie, you probably are like me and have odd taste in film. In which case, I also recommend Anger Management, School Of Rock, Animal House, Spies Like Us,Rocky Horror Picture Show and Requeim For a Dream. While not all of these movies are even in the same genre, they are all movies worth watching. enjoy! "},{"Title":"A Hilarious morality tale","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shaun Brumder is a local surfer kid from Orange County who dreams of going to Stanford to become a writer and to get away from his dysfunctional family household. Except Shaun runs into one complication after another starting when his application is rejected after his dim-witted guidance counselor sends the wrong application. So, Shaun goes to great lengths with a little help from his girlfriend Ashley and his drugged-out loser brother Lance to get into Stanford any way they see fit.Colin Hanks, the son of Tom Hanks does a good job playing a likable looser, but the main comedy comes from Jack Black. Jack Black plays Lance and he does some incredibly funny things throughout the movie. Watch for a cameo by Ben Stiller. "},{"Title":"Nothing Great, But Good","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Orange County is about a boy desperate to get into Stanford University where he believe is the only place that could make him a professional writer after inspire by the book written by the professor there; and also to get away from his family.The movie has many up coming star including Colin Hanks, Jack Black and Kyle Howard as the main attraction.If you ask me, I would say that this movie is ain't that funny but of charming and that what make it watch able otherwise this is a very average Californian teenage movieRecommendation Charming teen movie but it ain't funny so it not really workRating 6/10 (Grade C-) "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie Ever","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is probably the funniest movie I have ever seen. The only reason I couldn't give it a 10 is because the plot is not worthy of that high of a rating. The plot is actually pretty good for a teenage comedy, even if it is not very realistic. The only character who is not funny is the main character's girlfriend, Ashley, but all the others are hilarious, especially Catherine O'Hara as the alcoholic mother, Jack Black as the loser brother, and Lily Tomlin as the inept guidance counselor. I would recommend this to people who liked Jack Black's character in Saving Silverman. I can't guarantee that you'll like this movie enough to buy it, but it's impossible to not laugh at this movie, as even my parents ended up watching the whole thing and liking it. "},{"Title":"Film is somewhere between average and classic, but Jack Black is Fantastic","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you read a summary of the plot you would think it this film was a pile of dodo doo doo, but it is well funny and although the storyline is not great and predictable in parts its a great comedy. I don't think I would have liked this film half as much if Jack Black hadn't been in it, I am a big fan of his, and he is definitely the best thing about the film. The other actors are pretty good, they all play their parts well, especially the parents; John Lithgow (from 3rd rock from the sun) is wicked and Catherine O'Hara backs him up well. Overall the film is greatly average but the comedy makes it well worth watching at least once, especially when Lance (Jack Black) and the girl he just slept with walk out the door of the building they just set alight, wearing only underwear and fucked off their heads, where Lance proceeds to talk rubbish to Ben Stiller (playing a cameo fireman).OK script, very well filmed with some very funny acting performances  "}{"Title":"Maybe I'd watch it again.","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's hard for me to tell if I found this movie good or bad. I wouldn't call it an excellent movie, but I wouldn't call it bad or average either. There was some very good aspects to this movie in my opinion, but the bad parts ruined most of the movie. So here's what I found good and what I found bad.I'll start by naming the aspects I found good in this movie. First, well, it's supposed to be a comedy, and I can't say I ever thought it was stupid or un-funny. Sure, it's not Monty Python. The jokes were sometimes a bit awkward, but generally it was pretty funny. Jack Black was specially funny in it. His character might have not been perfect, but he really brought him to life. I knew it was a teen movie and that it was labeled as an MTV film so I didn't expect too much from it. Anyone who saw this movie should have known it wasn't going to be a masterpiece. Personally, I found it very refreshing compared to most of the popular movies. For once the characters weren't a group of dumb teenagers trying to find a girl to sleep with or partying all the time. I also kind of liked the fact that this movie tells you that you don't need to go to college with intellectuals to become smart or to be successful in your life. I think that in a way, the movie's message was that being pretentious won't lead someone anywhere..But this leads me to one of the MAJOR disadvantage of this movie. It takes itself WAY too seriously and tries to pass messages. By example, through Jack Black's character, there's a serious anti-drug message that people tried to pass. By example, when they set the building on fire. For someone who notices these things easily, it can be very annoying and it can be seen as preachy, specially since it's supposed to be a carefree comedy.What's really strange is that even though it took itself very seriously, the movie was far from realistic. Even though I said I liked the message it seems to convey, I think this message is delivered in a very awkward way. The characters could have been developed a lot more, and the events of the movie aren't realistic at all. Since the movie takes itself seriously and tried to pass messages, there shouldn't have been such questionable elements. By example, there's Jack Black's character. He's always doped and completely selfish and loud at the begining of the movie. That's what was funny. After the second half of the movie, he becomes nice and wants to help his brother. That just seemed unlikely. The fact that the parents go back together is also pretty unlikely.. One of these elements alone would have been tolerable, since they're all possible.. But there was just so many things that were far fetched in the movie that it was impossible to think it was realistic. If the movie really wanted to be absurd and funny and unrealistic, it shouldn't have tried to convey such a serious message.. I'm not saying that an absurd movie can't transmit a message to their viewers, but in the case of a teen movie like that, it's very hard.. "},{"Title":"Good messages and yet another hilarious performance from Jack Black.","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ORANGE COUNTY (2002)THE GOOD--Anyone who enjoys Jack Black's spice of comedy will no doubt enjoy yet another one of his energetic and involving performances presented in this film. Black is constantly outrageous and he is so full of life and talent that he lights up the screen. Colin Hanks also gives a strong performance, reminiscent of his father, though its Black who is the comedic centre of things. Orange County doesn't just rely on Black to do the comedy though, it has some great one-liners and visual gags, as well as characters who might sound clichéd (the drunken mom, the rich dad, the various stoners) but who are turned into funny and entertaining characters. At one point in the film Marcus Skinner says to Shaun 'you love your characters, it comes across in your work.' The same is true for the writer of this film.--Like Shaun, I am an aspiring writer (actually, writer/director of films, but hey, same diff) so I sympathised and reflected with his character during his struggle to become a great writer. I liked how they showed his dreams affecting the rest of his life and the people closest to him, and how it was recognised that it is very hard to become a successful selling writer in today's modern world. I also loved seeing the somewhat inspiring notion of how you don't need college or university to be a success, you can make it own your own. Very cool!THE BAD--The film has a good plot at the beginning, but that slowly spirals downward as the storyline lessens and lessens. Basically, by the last half of the film we're left to watch characters running around the Stanford campus having arguments or discussions, there isn't a hell of a lot to watch. Though this is enjoyable to an extent, I was left with the feeling that the writer had a terrific beginning and end planned out, but didn't take much notice to the middle section of his script.--Cheese, cheese and more cheese is common in teenage films, and this one actually doesn't have very much of it. Orange County is for the most part realistic and hardly ever over-the-top, save one exception. This is about the second-to-last scene where Shaun decides something very important, and a 'we-saved-the-summer-camp' cheer follows it. It's a nauseatingly corny reaction to a crucial decision that should've been handled more seriously.RATING7/10 - Jack Black continues his trademark comedy extravaganza and anyone will be entertained by him. Orange County is most worth a look, however, for aspiring writers who enjoy insight into the business and what it means to follow your dreams. And that almost sounds as corny as one of the last scenes in the film&#133;IF YOU LIKED THIS MOVIE I RECOMMENDAdaptation (9/10) Can't Hardly Wait (7/10) High Fidelity (8/10) School of Rock (8/10) Wonder Boys (7/10) "},{"Title":"Jack black is the man","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like most other films of this genre its not got a lot going for it, unless you have one actor which is without a doubt one of the funniest men about at this time, jack black, this film really has nothing going for it the topic isn't really interesting, its not taking the viewer anywhere, and the acting really isn't that great its average, but what makes this film a much better than average film is jack black who plays Shaun's brother (Colin hanks). At every turn he makes you laugh, he plays a a college reject who is either high or drunk most of the time. If there is any reason to watch the film he is it, when he is on screen its hard not to laugh with his absurd dressing style (nothing almost) and ability to move with such stupidity that it's hard not to laugh.This really isn't one of the best films i have seen, but it is definitely worth a watch just to see jack black throw himself about on the screen, it should be about 5/10, but you can't help but give it a 7/10 for the sheer comedy of it. "},{"Title":"Attack of the Killer Celeb Kids","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    Tom Hanks' son dates Sissy Spacek's daughter in the 150th (and not very good at that) filming of Am I Leaving Home and Friends for College?  (see American Graffiti, Risky Business, ad nauseum)  Every celebrity in the history of Hollywood has a bit role in this movie, but Catherine O'Hara steals what show there is as ditzy mom.  They even have Jack Black playing out of character as the drunken older brother.  A generous 6/10  "},{"Title":"Good, Funny, Light, Refreshing","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like this movie. Watch it, try it. It's light and refreshing. Hanks is a solid young actor. It has a breezy, west coast feel. I live in New York and it makes me want to move out west to the Left Coast. Just like Tao of Steve. It's kinda hokey and campy and cheesy in some parts. The cinematography is really good. See for your self. It's stunningly photographed. The natural lighting is beautiful. Jack Black is great as always. There's surfing, beautiful California sunshine, beaches, hot young girls, hot older women, nice cars. Coming of age, adult/youth themes. Hanks'girlfriend in the film is a cute redhead. California Dreamin...  "},{"Title":"An easy way to beat an hour...","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was not a very exciting or original movie, but good enough to spend 80 minutes with...It is always difficult to write a good review of a domedy, but this one was neither original or hilarioulsy funny. The actors are doing a decent job, and the manuscript is quite average.. "},{"Title":"A mildly funny movie that is more often not funny","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County seem to be a movie that tries to pander to everyone, but ending up satisfying nobody.  It tries to be a satire, but it is interrupted too frequently by slapsticks.  Then it tries to be sentimental or inspirational, only to be followed more gags and bad jokes.  Ultimately, it is not funny enough in either way for it to succeed.Some things that was funny were portrayals of odd characters and the satires nature of the film.  The discussion between Shaun Brunder's (Colin Hanks) and the writer and the revelation of his short story is quite touching.Shaun's brother Lance (Jack Black), is just plain annoying.  It seems as if his whole purpose in this movie is to unintentionally sabotage anything anyone is trying to do.  I presume Shaun having lived with his brother his whole life, would know better than be in proximity of him in which there will be a remote chance of him screwing things up.Much of the story defies logic, like the concept of giving up the chance to give up study under a famous writer and going to the equivalent of 13th grade just to be with some high school sweetheart, the family who doesn't even know what college is.  I mean these are not Beverly Hillbillies, and he is only going to college a few hours away, not permanantly relocation to another country.  Also, the sudden turnaround of a surfer bum who somehow in a year has a cumulative GPA of 3.5 and SAT score of 1530 baffles me.  Even if it is just the character tha has changed, it wasn't portrayed as a like scenario.Much of the other charicatures seems also obviously set up purely for gags, like the mom who gets drunk right before and during the visit by a school board member.  I thought schools likes people who overcame disadvantaged childhood like Shaun, but they make it look like Stanford only wants children of foreign leaders.Other scenarios are set up so clumsily that you knew it was coming a mile away, like the urine sample on the table, the handling over of the bottle of asprin found in Lance's jacket (even when Lance handed his sweater to Shaun's girlfriend, its like, a drug mixup is coming up.)To sum it up, it is probably better than the rest of the teen movies, but it is still ho-hum for the rest of the crowd.  "},{"Title":"**1/2 out of 5","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When a teen from Orange County wants to turn his life around and become a writer he will do whatever it takes to get into Stanford, but everything seems to go wrong for him along the way. What we see here is one sincere teen surrounded by nothing but obnoxious inept characters who can not all truly be as stupid as they are portrayed, we see an alcoholic mom, a money hungry father, a lowlife brother, two stoner friends, an aging step father who doesn't know where he is most of the time, a confused guidance counsellor and an animal loving girlfriend. All the characters are played to such a high degree of slapstick that by the time the film takes a walk on the serious side we are left for no reason to care about what happens to any of these people, leaving the view with very few moments of true emotional value. Colin Hanks doesn't need to worry about making any Forest Gumps or Green Miles because by the look of things he has no intentions in following in daddy's (Tom Hanks) footsteps. There are a number of cameos from some big stars like Lili Tomlin, Chevey Chase, John Lithgow and Kevin Kline (the only serious character to be seen). Although everything is made to the poorest standards of teen movies Jack Black is absolutely hilarious (I think this guy could make the dead burst into hysterical laughter) and simply steals the show as the drugged out loser of a brother who only wants to help but ruins everything. It's surprising that Black never started his career on Saturday Night Live because he is one of today's greatest comedic talents and he has much more to offer than unfunny hacks like Jimmy Fallon who only get by on their looks. In the end the only thing the film has to offer are the great scenes with Jack Black (and trust me there are far to few of them) and most of them were already shown during the trailer so what could have been the feel good hit of the summer doesn't feel good at all.    "},{"Title":"Like a slow, unfunny Risky Business","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had to watch this movie in two sittings, because I was so bored during the first 45 minutes I fell asleep.The characters are grating. The lead, Shaun, is so clueless he believes a guidance counselor when it comes to deciding how many colleges he will apply to (haven't we all learned that lesson, yet?). As a result, he applies to only one school, and through the counselor's ineptitude, gets rejected.Meanwhile, his brother (Jack Black, sort of a drugusing Bluto from Animal House), his unstable mom, his Type A dad and various other unappealing characters serve various roles. Only Shaun's girlfriend seems both intelligent and sensitive.Ultimately, the movie just isn't funny. The viewer never cares about the main plot question Can Shaun get into college? There are a ton of cameos, and that's the most interesting thing about this movie. I have no idea why so many actors agreed to be in cameos. Doesn't seem like the movie was worthy of it.I gave it a 4. "},{"Title":"Pedestrian Film with some funny bits, great Cameos","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jack Black was  funny, also good to see Ben Stiller still doing cameo's like in Happy Gilmore. However this film lacked any real unique storyline. Was a collection of other stories somewhat chaoticly stuck together. Worth seeing for Jack Black alone, a few belly laughs. "}{"Title":"** 1/2 out of ****","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Standard teen movie is well acted with a few funny moments, but basically falls into most of the same trappings.  Colin Hanks plays his part well, as does most of the cast.  While Jack Black is funny at times, his character is for the most part an attempt to simply capitalize on his fame, and he takes over a little too much.  Overall there is some entertainment value but nothing really special in this film. "},{"Title":"FUNNY!!!!!!!1","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ok i admit when i first saw this movie i was like eh that was it, i was so wrong, i watched it again and it was so funny!!! Jack Black was great, he is great in all his movies but i think he did the best with this one. If you haven't seen it, go out and rent it!!! "},{"Title":"Could be worse..could be better.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really can't think of one word to sum this movie up correctly.  When I try, all I can think of are gurgled ummhrrmmmgurrr sounds.What I liked about this movie... It's refreshing to see a teen movie that doesn't rely completely on gross-out gags to get its chuckles.  It had a nice little story, and though it wasn't executed terribly well, the idea was there...it had potential.  Colin Hanks, Tom Hanks' cute-as-a-button son is fun to watch, and it was such a blast seeing Schuyler Fisk again (the last time I saw her was in the Baby-Sitters Club Movie!).  Jack Black is a terrific comedian.  All of the cameos were fun to pick.Then there are the don't-likes.  Largely, this movie is un-funny, which isn't good..cos er, it's supposed to be a comedy.  Most of the jokes were few and far apart ,they seemed forced, and the only time the audience really laughed was when Jack Black had screentime.  It's like Coca-Cola without the fizz, for want of a better, less-lame analogy!  It just doesn't have any bite...I'm afraid I cannot heartily recommend this film to anyone except fans of Jack Black or the other actors, and it got a 5 out of 10 from me.  Save it for a rental.   "},{"Title":"Is this another typical teen flick?","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't think it is.  Even though there are a few cliches from past teen flicks surfacing here, Orange County is not the same boring teen trash that has plagued our theater screens over the past five to ten years.  Orange County is really about a teenager obsessed with trying to achieve one goal in his life but not realizing that he shouldn't be trying to pursue that goal.  Even though the situations that happen to hinder the hero are unlikely to happen on this side of the screen, we can understand that many of us who are in college right now aren't at our first choice of school.  Jake Kasdan and Mike White did an exceptional job in creating a funny film to illustrate that point.  I was laughing very hard during some parts of this film.  Colin Hanks and Jack Black did well as the hero and the hero's brother respectively.  The best parts of them movie is in the scenes they shared.  Jack Black stole the scenes with his brand of comedy.  The assorted cast of famous faces also made this worth watching (Ben Stiller did well as a fatigued fireman and Harold Ramis was funny as the stoned dean of admissions).  Overall, this is a funny effort but it isn't as good as Kasdan's last effort (the great Zero Effect).  On the other hand, I do recommend this film to anyone who wants to try and relentlessly pursue one goal and not look at the rest of the world around them.  I give this film a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good, but the only thing that kept it funny was Jack Black","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love Jack Black movies, so i went to see this movie but it wasn't as good as other movies he's been in. (Saving Silverman, Bongwater)****Spoiler****The story is that Shaun Brumder is struggling to get into Stanford University, but his family keeps getting in the way. So his brother (Jack Black) helps him out by driving to Stanford and demanding to get in. But his brother just makes it worse for him by burning down the building and getting the dean high on some drug. Then he realizes that he doesn't have to go to collage to become a writer so he stays at orange county.****End of Spoiler****The movie itself was kind of boring, but Jack Black does his best lighten up the movie. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Ack!  More garbage! - 3 of 10","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not Jack Black nor all the rest of the talent represented in this film could save it from the dung heap.  Jack has one or two funny scenes, but not enough to make this film enjoyable.  I cringed more and more as the movie progressed.  What it needed was more of Jack's antics and less of the crappy plot.  Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Funny but better if you live in Orange County","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County is a fairly entertaining movie but if you grew up in Orange County or have visited often then you'll agree its just darn halarious. The movie is exactly what life is like here for most family's growing up and the movies quite an acurate satire. "},{"Title":"A coming out party for kids of stars","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is nothing remotely original about this `escape from my home town' teen flick.  It has been done numerous times in both dramatic and comedic forms.  However, given the state of the market currently, where the industry attempts to draw teenage audiences with disgusting body fluid humor, liberal profanity and gratuitous sex, this film is a breath of fresh air.  Amazingly, without any of these `required' elements, this film (which was produced for next to nothing), did fairly well at the box office.Shaun (Colin Hanks) is a kid from Orange County, CA, who loves to surf and hang out with his friends.  He has secretly been achieving high grades between waves and after discovering a book on the beach, he decides he wants to be a writer and go to the elite Stanford University.  When his guidance counselor (Lily Tomlin) sends in the wrong transcript, he is rejected.  So, he takes a road trip with his brother (Jack Black) and his girlfriend (Schuyler Fisk) to set the admissions department straight.The comedy is mostly good clean fun, harmless and goofy.  The film is more notable as a coming out vehicle for kids of stars.  Colin Hanks is the son of Tom Hanks and Schuyler Fisk is Sissy Spacek's daughter.  The cast abounds with cameos of comics and other notables from the last four decades with appearances by John Lithgow, Harold Ramis, Chevy Chase, Lily Tomlin, Kevin Kline, Ben Stiller and renowned director Garry Marshall (`Happy Days', `Laverne and Shirley', `Mork and Mindy', `Murphy Brown', `Pretty Woman').Colin Hanks plays the role of the serious kid in an absurd world.  He spends much of the film being Jack Black's straight man.  He proves himself to be a solid actor, though time will tell if he can transcend the incredulous teen roles.  Black provides the film with most of its comic horsepower, stealing every scene in which he appears with his sheer outrageousness.  Fisk is fairly bland as Shaun's animal rights activist girlfriend.   All the veterans lend a comic hand to deliver a chuckle or two from the sidelines.This is not a memorable film, but at least it is inoffensive.  It has some silly situations and Black provides a guffaw or two.  I rated it a 7/10.  Not bad for a teen date flick.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I will admit, I underestimated Orange County. I recently rented it thinking Okay, this is an MTV Production...it can't be TOO good. Surprisingly enough, Colin Hanks did a great job in the movie! But I wouldn't want to leave out Jack Black, Catherine O'Hara or John Lithgow. From now on I'll try to be a bit more open minded when it comes to MTV Productions.  "},{"Title":"Waste of money and time","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie made me sick to my stomach. I wasted $5 for this garbage. It wasnt funny at all, it had no point, no surprise ending, very predictable, just stupid, stupid, stupid. Please DO NOT waste time and money on this, you will regret. ITS NOT FUNNY AT ALL!! "}{"Title":"Loudest my wife and I have laughed in a long time","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The scene where the university president comes to the insane household is a daffy and screamingly funny variation on the similar situation in  You Can't take It With You.  So there's not a really strong ending..so what? By that time we laughed so hard it didn't matter..and how else would it end anyway? We see a lot of movies, and a lot of genres, and the best parts of this  one are as good  as many that are better known . If it  doesn't make you laugh, put a mirror under your nose to see if you're still breathing. "},{"Title":"Colin Hanks did a great job!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just wanted to say that Colin Hanks was extremely impressive in Orange County. This was the first movie I have seen him in and I was a little hesitant of his acting abilities figuring that just because he was Tom Hanks' son that he got the role. But he held his own in a great way and was extremely funny. I give his performance a 10. And the movie was funny, too! "},{"Title":"above average but still not great","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `Orange County' is a cut above the average teen comedy (though just barely) thanks to one all-important aspect the unusual nature of its youthful protagonist.  In most films of this genre, the main character is almost invariably a young man whose aspirations rise no higher than that of getting laid, hanging ten with his buddies, or partaking of every illegal narcotic known to mankind.  Shaun Brumder, however, has loftier goals.  His main dream is to gain acceptance into Stanford University where he will be able to study under the renowned Martin Skinner, a successful author whose work has inspired Shaun to want to become a writer himself.  The only problem is that all the dysfunctional people in Shaun's life seem to be conspiring to keep his dreams from ever becoming a reality.  Whether it be his incompetent college guidance counselor, his `illiterate' English teacher, his alcoholic mother, his insensitive father, his maniacal, perpetually wasted brother, or his empty-headed, directionless surf buddies, Shaun seems surrounded by people who, whether consciously or unconsciously, seem determined to bring him down to their level.  The humor of the film, therefore, arises from the tension that develops between all these youth comedy clichés and stereotypes and the central hero who can't help but appeal to our own understanding and sympathy.Young Colin Hanks makes Shaun into a very likable central character, a rock of sanity in this sea of swirling madness.  Jack Black, as Shaun's brother, shows once again that nobody does a better job than he at impersonating the dumb slob loser, following in the honorable footsteps of `Animal House's John Belushi.  Schuyler Fisk provides warmth and charm as Shaun's understanding girlfriend, the one levelheaded person in Shaun's coterie of family members, friends and acquaintances.  And Catherine O'Hara and John Lithgow hit comic high notes as Shaun's crazy, mixed up parents.  Harold Ramis, Lily Tomlin, Chevy Chase, Kevin Kline and a host of other big name stars make effective cameo appearances in the film.At times one wishes that writer Mike White and director Jake Kasdan had aspired to create a richer, subtler comedy than the one they've ultimately come up with.  Shaun's story might have been more interesting had the filmmakers not always been so eager to go for the broad caricature, the tired pratfall, the easy laugh.  `Orange County' may be better than most films of its ilk, but that really isn't saying much in the long run.  It's ultimately, when all is said and done, a pretty dumbed-down little comedy.  Still, given what one might be led to expect from its advertising, `Orange County' also has its moments of unanticipated appeal and charm.   "},{"Title":"lacking","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though Jack Black shines in all his films, this film lacks enough comedic power to be rendered funny and thus it goes as the way most people would label it, this film is aptly called upon as it sucks!, sorry Jake Kasdan, but maybe you should try not to slip while following in your father's footsteps. "},{"Title":"It's All in the Expectations","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As the Gin Blossoms once said If You Don't Expect Too Much, You Might Not Be Let DownI thought this one might be fun, but was also prepared for the possibility that it might reek to high heaven.I was pleasantly surprised.Orange County tells the story of Shaun Brumder, an aspiring writer and reformed surf bum (played by Colin Hanks), who is determined to get into Stanford and study under his hero writer Marcus Skinner.Shaun is convinced that the only way to become a great writer is to escape the mind-numbing stupidity, pettiness, self-interest and general disarray that surrounds him in Orange County.  However, due to a mistake by his guidance counselor (Lilly Tomlin) who sends in the wrong transcript, Shaun is turned down by Stanford.What follows are several increasingly desperate attempts at getting admitted to Stanford, with each attempt horribly, although unintentionally, mangled by members of Shaun's family.  In the end, however, Shaun realizes that he doesn't need to escape Orange County to be a great writer, because his greatest inspirations (his friends and family) are right there at home.Ahhhhhhhhh.Jack Black, who has a tendency to be a little bit over the top for my taste, was absolutely hilarious as the drugged-out wastoid older brother.  Shaun's parents (especially his mom, played by Catherine O'Hara) and his surfer pals are also pretty gosh-darn funny.  The only character I could really do without is the overly-earnest Schuyler Fisk as Shaun's girlfriend.  Ugh.Overall, this was pretty good stuff. "},{"Title":"Dig Jables in his Undies","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Considering how bad this film could have been, I consider Orange County to be a real triumph.  It combines solid performances, likeable characters, gross-out humor, brainy dialogue, an excellent soundtrack, and Jack Black sans trousers.  That may be enough for most people, seeing a doped-out Black frantically vacuuming his room wearing nothing but his skivvies.  It was certainly most of the initial appeal for ME, being the huge Tenacious D fan that I am.  An added bonus is an appealing lead performance by Colin Hanks, son of the legendary Tom Hanks.  I was very pleased to see that the younger Hanks sports the same easy-going, everyman persona as his dad.  He carries the film on his slight shoulders very easily, aided immensely with a predictable but smart script and a very able-bodied cast.  I definately have to recommend this one.   "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie isn't too bad.  Colin Hanks gives a very cool performance as the overachiever, whose transcript is mistakenly wrongly sent to the college of his dreams.  It's up to him, his girlfriend, and his idiot brother to go get the right information to Stanford.  The actors give credible performances for their roles.  The script is actually good and enough laughs to make me happy.Overall the movie kept me watching from beginning to end and the performances were great.  Rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"musical selection complaint...","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If i have to hear that damn Crazytown Butterfly song ever again in my life, I'd be too soon. If you've seen this movie, I think you should understand. There are many other good songs on this soundtrack but all I got to hear was the same song about 3 or 4 times! argh.  "},{"Title":"American what ?","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This little gem was an unexpected find with cameos a plenty ranging from Ben Stiller to Kevin Kline.  An extremely funny 'coming of age' piece that in my opinion outranks the likes of American Pie etc if not just for the hilarious and sometimes surreal humour, but the entire cast of characters and the talented writing that brought each of them to life.  No 2D bit parts here, a great feelgood movie that had me laughing all the way to the credits.  "},{"Title":"Jack Black steals the show!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County, directed by Jake Kasdan (son of famous director Lawrence Kasdan), and starring Colin Hanks (son of famous actor Tom Hanks), Schuyler Fisk (daughter of famous actress Sissy Spacek), and Jack Black is a great movie.  It's not the funniest movie, but it's cool and funny.  The best part in the movie is when Jack Black is in his underwear.  If you like Jack Black, then, check out Orange County.B+ ****1/2 (out of ****** stars) 10/13 "}{"Title":"not super funny, but an all around good film","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this wasn't exactly the funniest film ive ever seen, but i think it did really good, simply because it makes u feel good. There were a few funny parts yes, but i think the movie is successful not for the laughs of it, but just for the plot line itself. "},{"Title":"It's not just a movie, it's a state of grace","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What's to say, about the comedy that never stops. Yes, it's not like the comedic masterpiece The Royal Tenebaums or the dim-witted comedy Dude,Where's my Car. But if you combine them both what do you get? This comedy.A comedy about a teenager going through what teenagers normally go through. Where this teenager (Colin Hanks)hopes to become a writer. Like, a certain character in the story you meet later. When Stanford doesn't except him (from having the wrong transcript sent in) he stops at nothing to get in. With the help of his brother (Jack Black) and his loving/devoting girlfriend (Sissy Spacek's daughter).So, watch this comedy that never lets go of its sense of humor. And enjoy the ride, which many actors and actresses do to (snap,snap,wink,wink,nudge,nudge,say no more, say no more).Well, like the movie says, It's not just a place, it's a state of mind. "},{"Title":"Not as clever as LEGALLY BLONDE, but not as painful as some of the other attempts...","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ORANGE COUNTY / (2002) CBy Wes AlexanderFrom a film that stars Jack Black, the son of Tom Hanks, the daughter of Sissy Spacek, Catherine O'Hara, John Lithgow, Harold Ramis, Gary Marshall, Lily Tomlin, Kevin Kline, and Chevy Chase, you'd expect a little effort. No such luck.ORANGE COUNTY is about a high school student named Shaun Brumder (Colin Hanks). He used to be a surfer without a care in the world. Until one day he finds a book buried in the sand, written by Marcus Skinner (Kline). This book changes his life forever. He gives up surfing and concentrates on his grades. He has plans to go to Stanford University and he's sure he'll get in. He sends in his application and gets a letter back. He wasn't accepted. But, the fault doesn't lie with his grades; it lies with the school secretary Mrs. Cobb (Tomlin). She sent the wrong transcript. Shaun's girlfriend Ashley (Schuyler Fisk) is very supportive. Shaun's brother, Lance (Black) decides that he is going to drive him and Ashley up to Stanford to talk to Don Durkett (Ramis) to try and change his mind about not letting Shaun in. Of course, this leads up to a series of bad events involving part of Stanford catching on fire and the fight/break up between Shaun and Ashley. Shaun leaves behind his drunken mother (O'Hara) and his money hungry father (Lithgow). The two are divorced. His father refuses to pay the money for him to get into Stanford and his mother is well&#133; a drunk. The two finally, somehow, end up together and this serves for the movies best scenes.It's a real shame about ORANGE COUNTY. The cast is excellent, but the screenplay by Michael White offers very few laughs. The movie relies on marijuana and urine jokes. Jokes we've seen so many times before in these types of movies. LEGALLY BLONDE (also about college) was fresh and funny, but ORANGE COUNTY is flat and predictable. I don't think that Colin Hanks is ready to take on a lead role just yet. He was fine in GET OVER IT, but he's not prepared for this. He may be the son of one of the greatest working actors, but that doesn't mean squat if you can't act.I should be happy though, at least this film offers some good moral values. But the message is presented in such a crude, careless way; it just gets muddled and jumbled in an irritating manor.   "},{"Title":"Funny, feel-good movie","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This flick has a nice pace to it, with enough laughs spaced out evenly to keep things interesting.  I love the actors in it - especially Lithgow as the father.  The ending is inspiring and leaves you with a satisfied feeling. "},{"Title":"Not worth ANYTHING...","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie with my boyfriend, my friend, his friend, and his friend's girlfriend, granted its not made for teens, but we're all up in age (all above 16 except for friend's girlfriend), and we HATED IT.  Sure, there was SOME funny parts, and like everyone else was saying, Jack Black was the best part, but I don't see where the movie went, I mean really!!!  The whole thing was an insane family, a nutty councelor who sent the wrong transcript to the college the kid (Shaun) wanted to get into, he and his flock of idiots running around trying to get him in, him getting in and then turning it down,  what kind of idiocy was that?  These new movies are really getting stupid and this just proves it...my rating?  Don't get me started!!! "},{"Title":"What would it be without JACK BLACK?","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That is a question I keep wondering, and I guess the only answer I can come up with is nothing. Jack Black pretty much makes this film worthwhile and without him in it, I doubt i'd even want to see it. Colin Hanks is actually good as the average smart kid and he definately is a good actor.The cameos were definately unexpected, but I enjoyed them. I don't dislike ORANGE COUNTY, I just would like to see less of it, and more of Jack Black, who obviously stole the entire show.Thank You for reading my comment. Take Care. "},{"Title":"Not another teen movie... thank god!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I saw the ads for the new movie Orange County, I thought, not another teen comedy. Fortunately, Orange County is not another teen comedy. This is not American Pie 3. It's well-written, tender and, for a change, flat-out funny. It also introduces movie audiences to the second generation of the Hanks family, as in Colin Hanks, son of Tom.When children of famous actors become actors themselves, it's tempting to make comparisons. In the case of Colin Hanks, it's damn near impossible not to notice the similarities. His mannerisms and speaking patterns are almost identical, not to mention the physical resemblance. But any doubt of Hanks' lineage is completely erased every time his character grows exasperated with the incompetence of those around him. Like his father did so many times, in early films like The Money Pit, Hanks plays a normal guy who's frequently pushed over-the-edge by a farcical calamity. When Shaun explodes into a comedic I-can't-believe-everyone-around-me-is-so-stupid rage, it's not only funny, it feels very familiar. The movie's director also knows what it feels like to follow in his father's footsteps. Jake Kasdan is the son of Lawrence Kasdan, who directed The Big Chill and co-wrote an obscure little sequel called The Empire Strikes Back (which, if you're scoring at home, qualifies him for god status). The younger Kasdan, who's just 26, is already an old pro at the family business.He assembles a talented cast of great comedy actors. Jack Black, plays Shaun's stoned-out embarrassment of a brother. Black has become the go-to guy when casting directors are looking for a wacky supporting player and he comes through again here. (If he keeps it up, Black will assume the Belushi mantle of portly sidekicks, a mantle last carried by the late, great Chris Farley.) John Lithgow and Catherine O'Hara get laughs with a nimble ease as Shaun's divorced parents. There are also a host of celebrity cameos which I won't spoil. Kasdan additionally gives us a nice Beach Boys-styled soundtrack to compliment the California surfing motif.Orange County is a sweet coming of age movie that evokes memories of film's like The Graduate. It's a movie about a young man's journey to find his place in the world. It's a journey you won't mind taking.  "},{"Title":"Only if you like Jack Black","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you are not a fan of Jack Black, don't even bother seeing this film.  I live in Orange County and was hoping to get some glimpses of my home turf, but while watching it I realized that none of the scenes take place in Orange County!  The one saving grace for this movie was Jack Black.  I think he's hilarious and every scene the dude is in is very funny.  Too bad he's not in more of the movie.  Good thing I saw a matinee.  "},{"Title":"Nothing great, but has certain qualities that make it rise above the typical teen flick","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Almost every comment I've read boasts this movie's lack of gross-out gags.  OK, so it isn't jam-packed with crude/sexual sight gags, but it does open with a lot of gags that are silly and idiotic.  Even the ones that made me laugh also made me think, That's pitiful.  For example, there's one gag where the girlfriend (Schuyler Fisk) blackmails the head cheerleader (who has connections to people in Stanford) into helping get her boyfriend (Colin Hanks) into Stanford.  First she threatens to mention the time she made out with a geeky boy at a Halloween party.  Then the time she made out with two guys at her former boyfriend's funeral.  To top if off, she mentions the night at the Prom when she threw up in the bathroom and made out with the butch-looking security guard.  And yes, they showed it.  I laughed--while cringing a little--but I couldn't help but think to myself, That's going too far.  And I swear to God, the next director who includes a dog-humps-leg gag is going to be shot!  And I have to feel sorry for the people of (the real) Orange County.  I've never been there, but I'm pretty sure not every resident is either a stoner, a surfer or a ditz.  Obviously, Jake Kasdan didn't do much research.  And your Dad directed Raiders of the Lost Ark?  Just kidding. What I do have to admire is that it's one of the few comedies that gets better as it goes along, rather than starting with tons of laughs and sagging towards the end.  And--this is one quality that almost NO other teen comedy has--the adult characters are well-developed!  Many directors tend to overlook the grown-ups in these movies, and choose to portray them as either overprotective grumps or bumbling idiots.  The adult characters are flawed, but not in an over-the-top fashion.  However, I thought the subplot involving the Mom (Catherine O'Hara) marrying an old, handicapped man was forced.  I know a lot of women like older men, but that's pertaining to guys like Sean Connery or men with a lot of money (like Anna-Nicole Smith's former husband).  I don't see what she found in him.  But the Dad (John Lithgow) falling for a floozie half his age (Leslie Mann) should strike true to a lot of children of divorced parents.  There's a scene where Mom and Dad talk about how much they hate their lives and their current mates, and eventually end up hooking up again.  Most directors would've probably cut that scene out, wanting to focus solely on the characters under 18, but not in this case.  Good job, Jake!The veteran adult actors contribute greatly to the cast.  Lithgow is the funniest of the lot, and has the funniest line  Why do you wanna become a writer?  You're not oppressed; you're not gay!  O'Hara is also a hoot, and steals a few scenes.  Other great talents include Lily Tomlin, Chevy Chase, Harold Ramis, Garry Marshall and Kevin Kline.  There's one surprise cameo, which I will leave a surprise.  Hint  Just like the two main stars, this person's also a second-generation actor.  Yep, this film is filled with second-generation talent--behind and in front of the camera.  The director is Jake Kasdan, son of Lawrence Kasdan.  Colin Hanks is the son of Tom Hanks.  Schuyler Fisk is the daughter of Sissy Spacek.  I criticized Hanks for his last two lame-o flicks  Whatever It Takes and Get Over It.  Well, this time he actually has a good character to work with--not playing the school geek--and this is one film that will probably make his Dad somewhat proud.  Schuyler Fisk is another very talented actress, who carries her Mom's name well (Well, technically not her name, but you know what I mean).  Both Hanks and Fisk have promising careers ahead of them.  And they make a cute couple in this film.  Hanks is a good-looking boy and Fisk is a pretty girl, but they don't look like models pulled off the cover of Seventeen.  Jack Black has a couple funny scenes, but this is the one film where he actually doesn't upstage everyone.  Usually, Black is like the life of the party--he brings out the bulk of the laughs in almost every film he's been in.  But I do have to say, I was cracking up soooo loud when Black started walking around in his undies.   I wouldn't quite recommend this film, but I admire it for what it is.  All in all, it's a heartfelt film with a great message--especially for all you aspiring writers out there, me included.  One more rewrite and this could've been a solid comedy.  My score  6 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"not another teen movie","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County could have been a flat retread of most teen flicks, but in fact it was fresh and hilariously funny.  Ben Stiller's cameo was perfect because the comedy reminded me a lot of There's Something About Mary. This flick is definitely going to make Jack Black a star because he stole the show.  Definitely check it out. "}{"Title":"Good But Not Great (can't think of any cheesy orange puns)","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The application process of college can be quite frustrating, quite disheartening, and quite funny, all at the same time.  Although there have been many comedies set at and around college, Orange County is the first that I know of to focus on the circumstances surrounding a horribly misguided application to Stanford University.  Though the film's not really worth seeing more than once, there are some inspired supporting performances that lead to some funny moments.What drove me to see this movie was Jack Black (OK, technically my best friend drove me to see the movie but I wanted to see it because of Jack Black), and even though he was quite unflattering (to say the least) in his underwear (he does spend a rather disturbing amount of screen time half-naked), he had some great lines and simple, but funny physical comedy. As always, he's great as an arrogant, stupid, but loyal deadbeat/criminal fool with good intentions, this time being to help his younger brother get into Stanford, which rejected him after being sent the wrong transcript. Though Black was pretty funny, the best performance was from Catherine O'Hara, who is hilarious as a neurotic, alcoholic mother who doesn't want her college-bound son (played satisfactorily with a bit of overacting by Colin Hanks) to leave the nest.  The ultimate overexaggeration of everything my own parents tell me (for the record, I'm graduating from high school this year), I couldn't help but burst out laughing at her every line.Though these two supporting performances (although receiving top billing, Black wasn't in the film as much as I expected) are the main reason to see the film, there is some excellent writing and sly wit in the non-slapstick sequences as well (though not as much as I would've liked); for those who live in the area, there are lots of home-grown in-jokes (since I live in Northern California, I only got a couple, but from what I've heard there are quite a few).  An unexpected appearance by John Lithgow as the harsh rich father who wants his son to inherit the business, not go off to Stanford and study writing, and a really funny cameo by writer Mike White (or, as I knew him, Buck from Chuck & Buck) as a valley English teacher are additional reasons to enjoy the film.Unfortunately, though there were more parts than I expected that were really funny, just as much of the film isn't that funny.  It's better than typical teen fare, but not by much (references to two of the younger brother's apparent homosexuality, for example, don't work).  Also, although the film focuses on the younger brother, the most interesting characters are the supporting ones; Colin Hanks, as mentioned earlier, overacts a little bit, and Schuyler Fisk, as his girlfriend, is similarly unremarkable. Finally, the turnaround at the ending is, while heartwarming in a twisted way, a bit of a let-down, all the more so because it seemed like there was no other way to end the movie.  That being said though, its still the 2nd best movie MTV has ever backed (but did they really have to put in so many references to that Butterfly song to sell the soundtrack?). "},{"Title":"Not very enjoyable.","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the acting talent seemed competent in the movie, and plot was pretty much developed; it wasn't very enjoyable.Of course there were one or two sight-gags and 'haha I remember thats how college/high school was' but other than that it wasn't very funny or enlightening.Perhaps I was supposed to laugh at the drugged out brother, or the two stupid friends, or the slutty cheerleader. Sorry.Ok well I did laugh at the slutty cheerleader. "},{"Title":"Actually has a Message...","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Go figure, a dumb movie with a point. Perhaps I am being too harsh, but I really didn't expect it to be all that good. I was wrong. Don't get me wrong, it'll do ok and it wont win any award, but it had an important message that I related too.  It was also really short and didn't drag on forever.  I actually liked it, although I won't own when it comes out. Once was enough. "},{"Title":"Underwhelming describes it best","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a perfectly pleasant little film, but I can describe it best with the word underwhelming.  The film was very short and had lots of potential, but for some reason failed to make the most of the many interesting cameos and most importantly, Jack Black.  Black was barely used in the film, yet he so easily could have stolen the show.  In fact two moments from the trailer that were shockingly cut from the final edit of the film (Black telling Hanks you've got to make love to them- how's it going, Stanford? and Black playing tug of war with a mangy dog over a hot dog) looked better than anything that remained in the film.  A lot of comic talent was sadly wasted, but nonetheless it was a pleasant and mildly entertaining way to spend an hour and twenty minutes.  Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Jackish Blackish","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went and saw Orange County last night. With high expectations I went to the theatre and sat in my seat waiting for the previews to end and for JB to appear on the big screen. After watching this movie I thought ah it was ok. Aside from being ok I thought this movie allowed Jack Black to be himself. This movie allowed JB to show off his real comedic ways as Shallow Hal scarecly did. Overall the movie was ok. In the end JB made it a great film and oh yeah where was KG? KG should have made a cameo. TENACIOUS D will be the movie of the year! "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie!!!","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County was a very good movie. It was one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. The movie was funny and kept anyone laughing. I think the movie and characters combined deserve 2 thumbs up. This movie reminded me of School days. I loved the part of where the guy tries to get back into the college. It was well worth my money and I would recommend anyone to go and see this movie.   "},{"Title":"Movie Falls A Little Short on the Laughs","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***The trailers for this film are very misleading. If you go to this movie expecting to see a who lotta Jack Black, then you will be disappointed. He is barely in the movie at all and, as a result, there are not as many laughs as you might expect. This is not a bad movie but it follows a familiar formula a bright teen feels trapped in his own city own because his own parents (among others) simply do not understand him. So he tries to find a way out. Blah! Blah! Blah! Nothing too exceptional here. Collin Hanks gives an okay performance and Jack Black is pretty darn funny when he is on screen. Outside of that, not much else worth mentioning. "},{"Title":"Don't Judge it by the Trailer!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie against my better judgement, mostly because I really like Jake Kasden, and refused to  believe that such a smart director would make some crappy Not Another Teen Movie type movie.  And I was so right, it hurts. It's unfortunate that the marketing for this movie is so lousy, because it's a really solid, well-told story with a great cast- and yes, I too cried nepotism when I saw Colin Hanks' name on the poster, but I'll be damned if he wasn't completely lovable.  Oh, there are some antics that might border on wacky, but Orange County's heart is in the right place, and it feels a lot more like Zero Effect (Kasden's first movie) than, say, American Pie/Corky Romano/other stupid popcorn flick. So, GO SEE IT!  It's not going to change your life, but it's highly entertaining, endearing, blah, blah, blah.  It'd be a shame to see it do poorly because of shoddy advertising and a misleading trailer.  It's really good.  I swear. "},{"Title":"Do Not See this Movie if you are looking for humor","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The only humor I found for this movie was mostly in the trailer and in Jack Black's character.  The movie is very much the whole MTV films wanting to represent pop culture and giving it a bad name. It was sad to see a young actor (Colin Hanks), whose father (Tom Hanks) is an amazing actor, get such a bad role. I hope he can salvage his career from this and not be stuck doing MTV films until he is 30.  "},{"Title":"A true joy!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Colin Hanks is spectacular. Catherine O'Hara has NEVER been funnier. Jack Black's character (or maybe just Jack Black) is sometimes a bit obvious, but completely believable. I saw four movies this week and Orange County is the ONLY one I sat entirely through. The auditorium was sparcely seated, only about four people, and when I passed the Concession Extortionist going out, she said, Was that you howling in there? Why, yes. It was. The last time I laughed like that was when the boys inhaled helium and sang John Denver in My Best Friend's Wedding. Orange County is a delightful film. "}{"Title":"Funny","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie last weekend and was surprised by the number of different hysterical situations. This movie is going to win no awards and Tom Hanks' son could have been better played by a different actor, but if you are looking for a fun simple movie where thinking is not required, this may be the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went in this movie expecting a decent teen comedy with funny antics by Jack Black. And guess what, that is exactly what it is. My buddy and I both agreed this movie had it's moments but really is not worth seeing again. My friend had said it was like a start to careers. Colin Hanks really puts emotion and innocence in his role that makes it worth watching (then again he learned from the best). I'm only 14 and I've seen a lot of movies and this is just a comedy you pick up on a Friday night in the video store. Nothing more. "},{"Title":"'Orange County' Not Your Typical Teen Fare","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After recently seeing `Not Another Teen Movie,' I was understandably a little leery of seeing another teen movie. But last weekend when `Orange County' came out, I figured that since nothing much else was in theaters, then I'd might as well take my chances. Good move by me.`Orange County' opens with our hero, Shaun Brumder (Colin Hanks) acting, as he would describe it, as a typical Orange County teenage guy-going surfing. Calamity strikes, however, one day when he and his buddies try to surf a tsunami, thus causing the death of one of his friends. While reflecting upon this terrible twist of fate, Shaun comes across a book that will change his life-instead of wanting to surf for the rest of his life, he will be a writer, but the thing is, he can only become the writer he wants to be by attending StanfordShaun is a talented writer and a bright guy (1520 on his SAT's), so his guidance counselor (Lily Tomlin) tells him that he should only apply to Stanford where he will be a lock to get in. But in a perverse twist of fate, she sends in the wrong transcript, which lists his SAT as 900. But all is not lost. Perhaps he can convince a regent of the university of his worthiness, so Shaun invites his seemingly last chance to his home. Big mistake. At best, the Brumder family is.dysfunctional. With an alcoholic, hysterical, scene-stealing mother (Catherine O'Hara) and a perpetually drunk, drugged-out, and scantily clad brother (Jack Black), the impression that he will make will turn out to be quite negative.With seemingly nowhere else to turn, he goes to his absentee, yet well-off father (John Lithgow), who is preoccupied in HIS world and predictably turns Shaun down. Now Shaun is grasping at straws when he resorts to making a last-ditch trip to Stanford in hopes of convincing the admissions director of his worthiness of admission. Accompanying Shaun on this noble `quest' are Ashley (Schuyler Fisk), his animal-loving and devoted girlfriend along with his brother. What ensues is best described as a melee of confusion and destruction.As every other critic has found issue to mention as if he/she was the first to break the news, are the famous parents of the two stars and the director so I guess that I'll follow the trend. Colin Hanks (Son of Tom), Schuyler Fisk (daughter of Sissy Spacek) and director Jake Kasden (son of the famous director Lawrence Kasden) all have served their families well in their roles. Hanks is able to pull off a nerdy well-grounded youth in search of his dream; Fisk is excellent as an animal/cause-loving activist; and Kasden just lets everything flow along with little, if any turbulence.But the actor that I really want to talk about is Jack Black. If he can be a movie star, then so can everyone else. To start with, he looks as if he has been lost in the Boundary Waters for several years and has only now made it back to civilization. And in `Orange County' he has the (painful) distinction of revolting the audience in multiple appearances clad only in his underwear. Despite all this going against him, Black turns in a hilarious performance every time he is on screen. Not quite at a gut-ripping level of humor, but impressive nonetheless. Another performance to watch for is Catherine O'Hara's presence whenever she is onscreen. Personally, I cannot think of anyone else better suited at playing a neurotic mother than Ms. O'Hara.`Orange County' marks a dramatic change from the recent teen films that were skewered in `Teen Movie.' Instead of a focus on prom, sex, and sports, `Orange County' chooses to focus on what most high school students are stressing about-going to college (for an insightful look at the process, be sure to read Sarah Voskuil's columns on the College Search Saga). It magnifies the fear of a clerical error causing a rejection to one of your desired colleges. I am confident that this will not befall me, after all, the Guidance Office here at Lourdes seems to be extremely competent.In the end, `Orange County' marked a renaissance from the dire straits that teen movies have entered in the past five years. Here's to hoping that this is a permanent shift in quality rather than an aberration. I would give it a high percent, but its weak ending doomed it to a lower rating of 90 out of 100.  "},{"Title":"My true assessment","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  18 comments on IMDB so far praising this film. Hmm- must really be a winner. This film is worse than the thought of being vomited on by a baby. I am a major Jack Black fan, and he wasn't given a role in this film- he was given a potential career death sentence as a mindless doper clown. The rest of the cast has to fill the assignments of being vile, uninteresting putrid examples of dysfunctional Americans (or at least Southern Californians). Catherine O'Hara in the past has put me off with her oddness as well as really made me laugh with the same oddness (see Beetlejuice). Here she's a haggard bag of barf. John Lithgow- for someone who started his film career as something of an ingenue, he consistently (3rd Rock excepted) has taken more and more cartoonish roles. This film role is actually somewhat nominal in that sense- at least he appears as an acceptable (in So. Calif)  normal money-driven cold father- nominal also for the region.... The rest of the cast? Names aren't important- being entertained by a film is and this film ain't doing that folks. Old reliable TV vet actor George Murdock portrays a drooling wheelchair bound rich hubby for O'Hara's shallow gal. (He isn't going to ever get another honorable job in this town again!) It was so bad my seat was squirming to get the hell out of the theatre (which afforded me the only potential pleasure of the evening). Save your bucks, save your eyes, don't wait for cable or video. Watch something as disgusting as Erasurehead and have a nice evening with that! "},{"Title":"Best Teen Film Since American Pie","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm sure you see the title of this review, and you might laugh, since American Pie is about as highly regarded as any of the Porky's Trilogy.  However, what I mean by the title is that Orange County, like American Pie, is a well-written, well-meaning film of a slowly dying genre.  Thanks to the keen directing by Jake Kasdan, Orange County becomes the cream rising to the top of a series of films that have all been extremely hit or miss (mostly miss).Shaun Brumder is a wonderful character, a young man who undergoes a scholastic, mature transformation.  He is brought to life by Collin Hanks, who is on his way to becoming a truly great actor like his father, Tom.  Of course, Jack Black as Shaun's drugged-out older brother Lance, steals the show.  Black is a marvel of comedic talent, both physical and verbally.  He is everything that John Belushi and Chris Farley could have been if their lives had not been so sadly ended.The rest of the cast, including the delightful Catherine O'Hara, the always great John Lithgow, the illuminescent Schuyler Fisk as Shaun's loving and environmentally conscientious girlfriend, and writer/director/actor Harold Ramis as a high Stanford Dean of Admissions, are terrific and well cast.Orange County was a surprise...I didn't expect much, except out Jack Black, but came away with the feeling of satisfaction that you just don't get as much at the movies any more.Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Just another teen movie... maybe not...","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Without being a great film, this flick is entertaining with some funny parts, thanks to Jack Black. I don't usually care for these kind of characters, but Mr. Black make me laugh in this one! Other than him, let's point out the performance of Schuyler Fisk (Sissy Spacek's daughter). She's pretty good in the role of Shaun's girlfriend. As for Colin Hanks, he doesn't shine, but he doesn't give a bad performance either. Maybe with time (some will say lots of it), he'll be as great as is father (Tom Hanks).See this one as a matinee, don't pay full fare, sit back and relax. No big laughs but not a bad way to spend 80 minutes.Look for cameos by Ben Stiller, Lily Tomlin, Chevy Chase, Kevin Kline and more.Out of 100, I gave it 71. That's good for ** stars out of ****.Seen in Toronto, at the Famous Players Uptown Cinemas, on January 14th, 2002.  "},{"Title":"Not another teen movie.","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Is Orange County an academy award contender? No. Is it a teen movie filled with sophmoric  humor? No. It is in the middle as i see it. It is a movie based on the lives of teens but is not centered around high school or college. This film reminds me greatly of Rushmore. It is a little less educated and looks a little more to the teenage boy humor. Colin Hanks is the least funny character in this film and that is why I like it. Because of such a great supporting cast, (Jack Black, Catherine O'Hara, John Lithgow,...) he is able to develop his character without having to resort to doing unnatural things with a pie. Jack Black very much carries the sophmoric comedy of this film. Although I believe he should be utilized more. In the end Orange County is not a great story. It is also not another teen movie. However it does pass for being a good way to spend your time. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was funny beyond words. Jack Black is amazing....hilarious as usual. Colin Hanks is the next Tom Hanks, haha. butseriously, He's great!. It was so funny, and so inspiring (well, asinspiring as it could be). Everyone fits so perfectly in this movie....and one thing I would like to point out. Lily Tomlin's character is themost true to life counselor I have ever seen in a movie. I, too, am inhigh school, and my counselor is EXACTLY like her. Do you go tothis school? and telling not to worry about something, then acouple days later saying WHAT? You didnt do that? That moment of the movie totally struck me....  Congratulations, MTV, you finally made a decent movie! "},{"Title":"A fun film in the tradition of ANIMAL HOUSE","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ORANGE COUNTY  **+_  Comedy / Dir Jake Kasdan Colin Hanks, Catherine O'Hara, Jack BlackShaun Brumder (Hanks) is a high school senior denied admission to Stanford because of a clerical error by his Guidance Counselor. This sets into motion several ANIMAL HOUSE style hijinks and a road trip instigated primarily by Shaun's drugged out brother (Black). While ORANGE COUNTY is not earthshakingly important, it is funny. It does not get overly gross as teen movies go. With strange characters all around him, Shaun Brumder keeps a level head and provide a good role model. Colin Hanks (Tom's son) turns in an excellent performance for his first film. Many famous comics make cameo appearances in bit parts. I found it quite enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Children of the Glitterati, Unite!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Here's a great example of what happens if you take children of the Hollywood elite (director Jake Kasdan is the son of writer/producter/director Lawrence Kasdan, stars Colin Hanks is Tom's son and Schuyler Fisk is Sissy Spacek's daughter) and throw 'em together with Jack Black in an MTV Production. UGH. Jack Black at times is quite funny (although he has done faaaaaar better), certainly.  Harold Ramis on X was initially humorous too.  Thin story, great actors in sad roles (Lithgow, O'Hara, Kline), it goes on.Don't waste your time, money or brain cells. "}{"Title":"A great beginning... (SPOILERS)","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just saw Orange County yesterday and enjoyed the first half of the film. Very funny, with several great moments. But (unfortunately) the entire film seems to come undone halfway through the film. The stars aside (Collin Hanks, et al...) were amazing in their parts -- I'm sure we can only expect great things from these young talents. Unfortunately, the film seems to have one major failing It has not decided whether or not it is a comedy or a drama. Is it about a young man and who is a motivated by his LOVE for his dream to be a writer, OR if it is about a man who is motivated by ANGER and FRUSTRATION trying to escape his family in order to find himself? In the first half, the film seems to be motivated by his love  (which seems like a much lighter and more enjoyable motivation) for this dream of being a writer and studying under his hero. At that point the film becomes a question of whether or not he will actually succeed in attaining his dream. The logical dramatic arc for the comedy aspect of this film would have been that he struggles against those who think they are helping him -- his friends, family, and even college admissions administrators who do not know his true merits. The climax of the film could have been when he makes an impassioned plea before everyone. Perhaps a moment such as when Jimmy Stewart's character from MISTER SMITH GOES TO WASHINGTON, gives an impassioned plea  before Congress, could have been made by the main character. This is, after all, a story about one young man's journey about fighting for his dream. BUT that never happened. Perhaps this proposed story arc would have been too formulaic for the writer, but it may have sustained the enjoyable comedy-of--errors feel of the film that it so desperately needed to sustain to keep the audience laughing. As it were, the film failed to sustain its comedic core because it forgot about its original comedic set-up and theme and opted for a second theme which is less laughs and more sentimental. This second theme was about a young man's discovery about the truth that one does not have to escape one's past in order to be who he is and to achieve one's dreams. This second theme was so serious it became the death of the comedy of this film. Because there was no understandable setup for this new direction of the film, the audience of the film quickly became silent for the second half. Kudos to the young director and his cast. Kudos for the screenwriter on his first half of the film. Unfortunately, this film may have operated better if it has been broken in two with the first half sustained as a comedy-of-errors. And the second half made more into a sentimental drama about the trials and tribulations of  a young man coming-of-age. This is surprising and saddening to see that this film did not meet the outrageous expectations to which is promised by the commercial advertisements. Yet it still shows the emerging gifts of quite a few promising young talents. Best of luck on future endeavors. "},{"Title":"THANK GOD FOR JACK BLACK!! *spoilers*","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jack Black was so freaking funny in this movie that at times, I could barely breathe.  Too bad he wasn't in every scene...I found myself waiting for the brother to come back...wondering when funny brother would have more lines....not a good sign.This movie felt kinda slow (except black of course).  What is the prime motivation of our main character? The motivation came across as Rich boy can't wait another semester to re-apply to college.  Not really much urgency there. Okay, we get it, he thinks all of his friends are shallow and not deep like him.  He thinks that going to Stanford will somehow change his world.  And maybe it will....it's understandable that an 18 year old would be so impressionable.  But this kid just wasn't down and out enough to overcome many obstacles.  Halfway through the movie, his girlfriend sums up all of his problems in a quick speech, that just about drains all urgency. She makes so much sense, that well DUH. What else is there left to do?  The moral of the story came IN THE MIDDLE OF THE MOVIE. There should have been more of ACT 2 with more ridiculous obstacles that lead up to the FIRE scene (which was hilarious, thanks to Black and the other actress). That scene would have been the last pivotal straw that begins act 3. If they edited more obstacles out, well, that's too bad. For some reason, teen movies are cut down because they assume their audience has a short attention span. (She's All That - same thing).  Film makers would do their audience a favor if they DEVELOPED THE STORY MORE and gave their audience the benefit of the doubt.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not your average teen movie","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Even though this movie might get bad reviews, I love it! I've always loved the movies MTV puts out and this one is a winner! And though it might have your some of your average teen movie characters, it's not like all the others. A great breakthrough movie performance by Colin Hanks and a hilarious comedic performance by Jack Black! Orange County- not just a place, but a funny movie too. "},{"Title":"A View From the Inside","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK..as a 18 year old guy who was born and raised in Orange County, I was at first very skeptical of a movie based on my culture.  The truth of the matter is that most of the events in the movie are so close to the reality of living here that it is scary for me to watch.  It could almost be a documentary(exept for the stuff about surfing..no one talks like that or uses those terms)  The families are that crazy, the schools are that weird, and everyone is in their own world out here... If I didn't live here I don't think I would have enjoyed it as much, I saw this movie with a good majority of my senior class and the reason we found it so funny is because we could yell out and add our own little parts during the movie about things that only people who live here would ever understand, by the way...909 Rules!  See, I bet no one has any clue what that means or that I am making fun of certain people by saying it...it was just little things like that which made the movie so much fun for us all to watch. A few things i didn't like were one, the language...no one here talks like that, no one says Surfs up  or Cutting Waves unless they want to get beat.  No one wears wife beaters and cut off sleeve shirts to the beach unless they are from Riverside<(see I did it again, no one knows what I'm talking about)  And no one just hangs out at the beach all the time unless it is summer or near summer, you can't go there in like November when it is overcast, because the it is too freakin' cold.  Plus-no one ever says they live in Orange County.  You live in Newport, or Costa Mesa, or Corona, or Irvine...not the general area known as Orange County, and if you are talking to people out of state, ou tell them you live in Southern California...I don't even think I heard anyone mention Orange County until this movie came out. I liked this movie and I feel sorry for anyone who saw it who doesn't live in the coastal area of Orange County because you missed like half the fun of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Stupid-funny, good but short.  Seems like a lot was cut.","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie was good, but it seemed as if a lot was cut in order to get a PG-13 rating versus an R rating.  The movie was short, and it seemed as though certain sub-plots were not fully developed.  Also, pretty much nothing that I saw in comercials or trailers was in the movie.  I hope that there is a Directors cut or an unrated version that will come out once the dvd is released that will have the missing material included.  "},{"Title":"Great for anyone who had trouble applying to college","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A really, really funny movie made by MTV in 2002.Colin Hanks lives in Orange County with his lunatic family, and gives up his surfer screw-around lifestyle to become a writer at Stanford University. He applies to only one school, Stanford, on the urging of his guidance counsellor. You don't need any other schools, not even a safety school. Why, you're scared? She sends in the wrong transcript by mistake, of some loser with a  D average and combined SAT of 900, and he gets rejected. So he tries to get in by meeting a Stanford trustee, but his entire family due to pure bad luck spoils all his chances. His only recourse is to drive over, and talk it over with the Dean of Admissions. What makes this movie so funny is how Colin Hanks (Tom Hanks's son) is the straight man, while every single person he's surrounded by is incredibly nutty and neurotic. It's got the same charm as Seinfeld, as each person gets a moment to steal the show. Jack Black is his druggie brother, John Lithgow is his obsessive father, Catherine O'Hara (Home alone) is the neurotic mother.Aside from that, there are a bunch of cameos, from Ivan Reitman to Ben Stiller to Chevy Chase and Kevin Kline. It's made by MTV, and surprisingly good. The soundtrack is nicely done, with a Offspring Music video tie-in. This movie may just top all its MTV movie successors in humor. I laughed, and took my parents to see it with me. Screwball humor may be a good definition.If you've had any sort of trouble getting into college, this is <B>IT</ B>. THE movie for you to see. I can't tell you how well I was able to identify with the character, and how well the movie actually defined all the characters to give them a bit more depth. "},{"Title":"the mom is hilarious","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  don't feel like typing much about the movie.  It was OK, but wasted a lot of time being sentimental when it could've been funnier.  The scene when the old people visit and all the quirky family comes out of the woodworks is very funny, but other than that, it's just....okay.  Oh, and the alcoholic-depressed mother is played brilliantly and hilariously by Catherine O'Hara. "},{"Title":"Since when is Stanford Ivy League?","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm just annoyed that with great films like Gosford Park and The Brotherhood of the Wolf opening this weekend, my theater chooses this tripe as the only new movie to open this weekend. So it has Tom Hanks' precious little boy in it. It still looks just like 18 other off to college movies I've seen advertised in the last six months that create no feel for what University life is really like. This really stinks. "},{"Title":"We All Live in Our Own Orange County","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I usually try and avoid MTV films, but something about Orange County brought me to the theatre today. I must say I was pleasantly surprised and really enjoyed it. It's no Oscar winner, but does deliver one hilarious laugh after another. Jack Black (Shallow Hal) is really establishing himself as a comedic actor and new actor Colin Hanks does a pretty good job as the lead character. I think we all can relate to the dilemma of finding one's place in the world and dealing with family troubles. I highly recommend this film for anybody who wants to laugh for a few hours. Laughing is good therapy for any lost soul. There are a few cameos by established actors so be on the lookout, but the real gem of the film is Jack Black and his deadbeat character.  I give this film 10/10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Not Horrid, but nothing special","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First off, let me point out that I saw this at a press screening, so I can't be sure I saw the final cut. What I did see, however, was maybe 10 to 15 minutes of good movie stuffed in an hour-and-a-half long film. Orange County isn't nearly as bad as the majority of teen movies out today, but that isn't a saying a lot - and that's about all there is to say for it.I can sum of the good aspects of this movie in two words Jack Black. He's very good at what he does, a kind of goofball in his own world kind  of character, and he excels at it here. He steals every scene he's in, and perhaps the best scene in the film is between Black and Ben Stiller, in an inexplicable cameo. Not to put too fine a point on it, but Black reminds me a bit of John Belushi - not quite the same, but with the same comic mentality. He just needs better vehicles than this.Colin Hanks isn't bad, but no one else really shines. I'm gonna go ahead and assume that the majority of bigger names in this film (Catherine O'Hara, John Lithgow, Lily Tomlin, Harold Ramis, and -say it ain't so- Kevin Kline) appear as a favor to Lawrence Kasdan, director Jake's father. They all seem out of place, especially Kline, and O'Hara's over the top caricature of a drunken gold-digger is too odd for words.The direction itself is not bad - the film moves along at a brisk pace, and avoids some of the normal pitfalls of the stupid teen comedy cookie-cutter. All the same, the story itself borders on the utterly ridiculous - it was pointed out to me that the end of the movie works out in such a way that the lead character(Hanks) actually manages to hurt his chances of achieving his dream, largely because certain elements of this movie apparently exist in fantasy-world, where the right choice is always the one accompanied by cheap sentimentality. This is a shame, because with a little work and a different ending, this actually could've turned out to be an interesting film. "}{"Title":"Ending Tanks Great Film","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For the first two thirds of its length, this film is very good to great. Then it seems as if they were too bored, too tired or too rushed to actually think up and write an ending. Could have been way better- "},{"Title":"For the love of all that is good, avoid this one at all costs!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This year at the movies is not starting out with a bang, but with a thud. Orange County opens the 2002 season with what will promise to be one of the worst of the year. This extremely unfunny film clocks in at 80 minutes, but feels twice as long. The jokes fall flat, the acting is pretty bad, the characters aren't that great, and the script is just terrible. You can't ever expect too much from MTV Films, but having Jack Black (Shallow Hal) made it look a little promising to be at least a little funny. Even his comic timing and offbeat sense of comic delivery couldn't save this stinker. Colin Hanks (son of Tom) does OK in the lead role, but can't carry the movie himself. At times he seems unsure what he's supposed to be doing, which may not completely be his fault. Catherine O'Hara (the mom from Home Alone) plays a good drunken, emotionally unstable mom, but that's about it. Chevy Chase, Kevin Kline, Harold Ramis, Lily Tomlin, and Ben Stiller all make cameos, but should remember not to put this on their resume. Definitely skip this one in the theater and on video. It's not worth the time or effort even if it was free.   "},{"Title":"Ouch!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As many you will surely have guessed, this movie is terrible. You have your standard jokes here, the cup of bodily fluid, hot cheerleaders, and a lame rap-rock laden soundtrack. One question I think Chevy Chase plays two roles, one of which is a frat-boy, Kip I think. Can anyone confirm this? "},{"Title":"Why Orange County?","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a waste of a perfectly good title! As a lifetime resident of Orange County, I was thrilled when I saw the previews for this movie back in November. Orange County is such a creepy, dystopic place to live and is therefore ripe with comedic material. It was like a gift that a movie should finally be made about all of its pathos.Then I saw Orange County. It could have been anywhere, but it especially seemed like suburban LA. It came as little surprise that the film indeed was ALL shot in Los Angeles, near Pasadena. I'm assuming it must have been budget restraints, but if they are going to go to the trouble to make a film eponymous to a particular place, then why the hell is it not shot in THAT place?!Apart from the obvious location problems, the characters are far too stereotypical. The whole surfer thing is just not funny anymore and is a cheap out when trying to poke fun at California. The only thing that made me keep watching was Jack Black, who quite frankly would be funny even on webcam. Most of the film, in fact, seemed like a trailer for his talents and also a means of launching Colin Hanks onto the scene. Apart from the cameos and Black, however, the comedy was surprisingly trite, especially coming from the writer of Chuck and Buck, who could have delved so beautifully into the dark, comedic potential of the totalitarian state that IS Orange County.I do recommend this film to people on the East Coast who are looking for a one-dimensional rip on California, as it is just one homogenous mix of surfers and potheads at that distance. But for anyone who has ever even stepped foot in the real Orange County, don't expect the biting and complex social satire that it could be. It's just another teen movie, perhaps a cut above.So why Orange County? I guess it just sounds better than Torrance. "},{"Title":"Worthwhile, if only for Jack Black (spoiler)","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  here is my modestly spoiler filled review of Orange CountyEarly today I was killing time between classes at school, the University of Michigan-Flint, and noticed a crude flier saying it was redeemable for a free showing of Orange County for tonight.  Being the ever skeptical self that I am I called the theater to get the skinny and sure as heck it was legit.  So I grabbed my wife for a cheap night out on the town.I wasn't looking forward to Orange County, well maybe DVD rental and I was wishing the free movie was Black Hawk Down (stayed up till 5 in the morning reading the book on Sunday and have the Moby song from the trailer playing in my head over and over...) Anyways free is free.  Our lead hero is a stoned surfer turned writer and seeking admission at Stanford.  The main story line is in the trailer so I don't have to go into that.  In the end he learns what I tragically found out myself, that College sucks so he might as well stay at home and go to community college.   I must say this though, when is Jack Black going to get a lead role?! Every second he is on the scene is pure stellar.    Sort of like Lochlyn Munro in Dead Man on Campus. Though this is a lot better movie than that one.  Ben Stiller has a timley performance in a bit role.I liked it, just glad I didn't pay for it.  It was nice to see a movie with a teen ager seeking college and not just sex and drugs which seem to inundate recent movies.p.s. Hollywood  MORE JACK BLACK "},{"Title":"I didn't care...","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't imagine anybody hating this movie; then again, I can't imagine anyone liking it either. I watched it, I left, and I was unfazed. The writing doesn't draw attention to itself, nor does the directing, and, aside from occasional moments from Jack Black, the acting isn't that remarkable either.Orange County is occasionally funny but never builds to a comic climax, and the plot does depend on the audience not knowing that Shaun Brumder could just re-apply for the spring, get in fine, and not burn down any buildings or get anyone hooked on drugs. But it's not even spectacularly dumb; it is basically inert, unremarkable, and entirely predictable. I can't imagine recommending this movie to any one; in fact, I think I've begun to forget it already... "},{"Title":"Shockingly funny, clever, and original!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I fear that this movie is being promoted all wrong.  I went to a free sneak preview, thinking that it was just going to be another stupid teen comedy- and on some level it sort of is- but it's so much more.  Little quirky things happen throughout the movie- and a cavalcade of stars pop up in cameos Lily Tomlin (as a guilty guidance counselor), Chevy Chase (as the principal), Kevin Kline (as an author).  Catherine O'Hara (who is always GREAT) shines as Colin Hanks' drunken mother.  Sissy Spacek's daughter Schyler Fisk is great as the girlfriend (a scene where a dog she saves from getting hit on the PCHighway bites her face is both alarming and hilarious; it had to have been unscripted and unplanned).  Jack Black has a very small role, but is hilarious.  Mike White (of Chuck And Buck fame) wrote this, and has a small role as a teacher... this is NOT just another dumb teen movie. I even got a few 80's John Hughes twinges from this.  This is a great movie with heart- don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time. I am a big fan of teen films such as this and the American Pie series. I was laughing at every joke in this movie. This movie did not do well at the box office considering what an all-star cast this movie has. It should have done better.Basically, this film is about Shaun Brumder. He has an extremely dysfunctional family and he has a goal to get into Stanford. But, when his college counselor accidentally sent in the wrong application, things will get complicated.The acting is excellent. Colin Hanks did a great job as the only normal person in his family. Jack Black definitely did a great job as the druggie brother. Everyone else in this outstanding all-star cast did an excellent job.This movie cracked me up. Most of the jokes were original. The funniest scene happened to be a scene that has Jack Black and some firefighter that's not.Overall, this is a hilarious film, one of the best comedies of this decade. I rate this film 10/10. "},{"Title":"And The Oscar goes too.... Spacek, Hanks,Lithgow, Jack Black?????","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie reminds me a lot of the woman that i went to see this movie with. Every time I see Orange County come onto the television sett I laugh I get nervous and I cry. The storyline goes as follows, Shaun Brumner aka Colin Hanks applies to Stanford after reading a book that he finds on the beach wash ashore, he soon realizes that not getting into Stanford ruined his life and that he is doomed a life hopelessly in is dreaded home town of Orange County California. Jack Black plays his drugged up dazed and confused brother Lance who helps Shaun along side his girlfriend,(Spacek) to drive to help Shaun explain his situation of getting into Stanford. The overall dynamic of the movie and overall tone for being released in 2002 around the time I started college made it a sentimental film for me to watch. My girlfriend a month later had broken up with me and at times I had felt like Shaun from this movie. Hanks gets a little stir crazy at points but the entire movie and actors help bring him down to earth. The cast all has its funny parts and some embarrassing moments arise, along with the soundtrack featuring The Offspring The Foo fighters and Crazyland this makes for an unbelievably good evening of laughter and tears that will remind me of when i started on my life's journey. "},{"Title":"Story of my life","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well to be honest my life is pretty far off from this movie but there's so much that I can relate to. The characters are great and they're so real. You can really understand the plight of the protagonist. You see him grow through the movie from a surfer with no direction in life to someone who will do anything to achieve his goal. Jack Black is great but he's not alone in this movie. Even though 90% of the cast aren't big names they really did a great job in this movie. This is one of my all time favorite movies for so many reasons. When I saw that this had a 6.1 rating on IMDb I just had to write a quick review. While it's hard for me to explain how great this movie is I advise anyone who hasn't seen it to give it a chance as more than just a teen movie. "}{"Title":"Very underrated movie","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is amazing.I find it so because of it's honesty. It's almost like a book brought to life. It is funny as well and all that,but I think people are missing something deeper. The story, and lesson of the movie. It is great, the characters are honest portrayals, of a certain type of people that reside in America.Now I can take the argument that in the movie, the character was a rich white kid,but it was not really about that. If all preppy kids were as real as the character of Shaun is, the world would be a better place.A very good portrayal of both moral, story and humor "},{"Title":"So what's not to like?","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie, for some reason, doesn't get a lot of respect. It was flawed, sure. Maybe it was a bit clichéd. But it was a great movie, and doesn't deserve the lambasting it's gotten.Shaun Brumder (Colin Hanks) finds a book on the beach. He likes it so much he decides to become a writer. He wants to study at Stanford, where the book's writer is a professor. But the guidance counselor (Lily Tomlin, who's hilarious in this) switches his transcripts with someone else's. What follows are the steps Shaun takes to try to get in despite this obstacle, and the obstacles he encounters because of his family.People seem to want to find a conspiracy here because of the director and cast... Jake Kasdan is Lawrence Kasdan's son, Colin Hanks is Tom Hanks's son, of course, and Schuyler Fisk is Sissy Spacek's daughter. All actually do very well here, and Fisk has proved her mettle as a comic actress much more forcefully in Not Another Teen Movie (another underrated comedy... but c'est la vie). Some people hold the soundtrack in contempt for trying too hard to be commercial... as if Brian Wilson (solo), Phantom Planet, or Social Distortion are commercial. Newsbreak, people look past Butterfly (which seems to be part of an important plot point, which I will explain later), and you may find the movie has an excellent soundtrack.The standout performance here is definitely Jack Black's; every move he makes and line he utters is amusing. Does it ever get old that they keep focusing on this fat layabout loser who spends every day recovering from the night before? Not really. I guess it depends on where your tastes lie, but I thought he was funny in this from beginning to end.The cast is terrific. Catherine O'Hara, John Lithgow, Harold Ramis, Garry Marshall, Kevin Kline, Ben Stiller, Chevy Chase, even Ernest Borgnine as Bob, the old man Shaun's mom married after getting a divorce (think Anna Nicole Smith)... they're all very good. And there was more subtlety than I think people noticed the first time around. Case in point the use of the song Butterfly. Early in the movie, Shaun sees some cheerleader types perform an obviously choreographed dance to this song (which does have one saving grace the hook is a sample from an old Red Hot Chili Peppers song). Later on, when Shaun is at Stanford, he sees a bunch of cheerleader types doing the same dance. Keep this in mind, and Shaun's reaction the next time you watch it. It's a big turning point in the movie.The bottom line is that this is a sweet-natured farce about a young man with big dreams who feels he needs to get away from his current life to realize them. It's a classic story, but in this case, it's mixed with the almost slapstick antics of his family and friends. There are big laughs and a great feel-good (if not entirely plausible) ending. And there's a depth here that some people just don't see. So come on, I beg you, if you didn't like this movie, watch it again, but make sure you leave your prejudices at the door. I won't guarantee that you'll love it, but I can't imagine that you won't laugh a few times. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is so sad that this movie has a rating of 6.1 at the moment i'm writing this. This by far one of the best comedies ever produced with excellent dialogues, very funny lines, amazing cast and a very promising soundtrack. The characters of the family are all so funny. They are all so different from each other which is the foundation of this movie. Never ever do I remember laughing that much with a comedy, they are not in a crude form such as an american pie movie but for some people it may seem that are a lot better. Personally this is my best comedy and I highly recommend it to anyone who hasn't seen it yet. You don't know what you have been missing out if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Nuthin' too special","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have a real problem with teen movies these days--and I have authority to, since it was only a couple of years ago I was a teen--but, being a fan of Jake Kasdan's Zero Effect, Mike White's Chuck and Buck, The Good Girl, and, later, School of Rock and always a fan of Jack Black, I decided to check this one out. It was getting pretty good reviews--could a teen movie actually be good? It's not bad, I'll tell you that. I had to hand it to them for having a really spectacular soundtrack (especially the Brian Wilson selections, considering it's a freakin' teen movie!) and entertaining cameos. The story is one of those that work for movies to get the plot going, but it hasn't been enough years for me to laugh at the calamities of applying to college, dealing with stupid teachers, the inanity of high school jerks, etc. I also consider myself a writer and tried to relate with the aspiring writer main character, but could not find much similarities, (any struggling writer will tell you a line like, I've been writing ever since. I'm nonstop! is quite enraging. Or maybe that's just me). Jack Black and Catherine O' Hara have several funny lines. Mike White himself was funny as well. Lily Tomlin's clueless guidance counselor, again, while true-to-life, makes my head hurt too much for me to laugh.Of course, it seems one can never escape teen movie clichés (WHY?). The main character has a hot, supportive girlfriend, an expensive car, and two wealthy parents. Don't you hate that? I didn't have sh*t in high school. I was just the fat geek who didn't have a car, a license, a girlfriend until college. And it wasn't sunny California either. It was cold-ass Michigan. I don't know why there aren't more true-to-life teen movies (Ghost World is a great movie, but I'd rather not refer to that as just a teen movie). I guess my own bitterness about high school should not affect my review of this film, but it was how I felt when I watched it.Oh well. It kept me entertained. You might also. B- "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County was another hilarious offering brought to us compliments of the one and only mike white (I'm sure there is more than one Mike White in the world, but seriously...how many of them write screenplays).This dude is right on when it comes to humor and it didn't hurt a damn bit that Jack Black was in the flick. The half-nude cartwheel over the bed had to be one of the highpoints in the film for me. I wonder if that was improv. Hmmm...I'm going to have to watch the commentary now. Another thing that attributed to the humor in this flick was john lithgow. I don't know who to give more credit to the cast or the writer. I'll have to go with the writer on this one. I gave this film a 10 because there was rarely a moment when i wasn't laughing. And isn't that what a comedy is supposed to do?  "},{"Title":"Really funny","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"        Orange County was really funny. Jack Black was hilarious in this film. I loved him in it. Every time I saw him, he always made me laugh. I loved when he was tapping his stomach and then doing a cartwheel over the bed. That was so funny and also when he came out of the burning school and when he was walking funny, that just made me laugh. Colin Hanks also played really well as he is the son of my favorite actor Tom Hanks. This is probably Jack Black's funniest movie. I haven't actually seen this movie in a while and I would gladly like to rent this again. I hope Jack Black will make another goofy movie like this one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Life Changing Movie","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I believe that this is one of the best teen movies ever made. I watched this movie everyday for the whole summer, so much that my boyfriend and I can't even use the DVD anymore.What I find so intriguing about this movie is that they start out making it seem like Seans family is just a bunch of screw ups, but as the movie progresses you find out that each character has so much depth and that what you see of someone on the outside may not be what they are on the inside, (ex. when Jack Black gives Ashley his coat, his parents really do care about him and do so much to help him get in at the end.)This movie changed my life so much, but only if you take the time to REALLY watch it. The part when Sean meets Prof. Marcus Skinner is the best scene ever.Let's get lit and jump off the roof! "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a total waste of time. No real humor involved with this. This movie is a hour and a half of pure awful comedy. Jack Black gave himself a horrible image with this movie. This movie is not even worth renting. If you are ready to waste your time with a bad film, go right ahead, but for true movie lovers, spend your money on something else! "},{"Title":"Comedy that can't decide what it is","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County could have come out a lot better if it didn't take itself so seriously.  It attempts to actually teach a moral lesson and make you believe in the dilemma of its main character, but its weird obsessions with certain odd themes (hispanic maids?!) and nonsensical plot points leave you wishing it would just stick to pure comedy.While I don't like picking apart hard to believe aspects of plots in comedies, some portions of this movie just left me scratching my head1) The curious overuse of Crazytown's Butterfly as background music.  I understand it was a trendy song in 2001, but it appeared prominently in not one, not two, but THREE separate scenes of the movie -- including one where a Stanford airhead announces, It's our song!!  This song's record label must have paid someone off well.2) I'm supposed to take this aspiring writer wants to get into Stanford so badly that he goes there himself theme seriously.  However, once he gets there, he obnoxiously shows up uninvited (late at night, no less) at the doorstep of the Dean of Admissions.  They never explained why this couldn't wait until the next morning.  Why would someone serious about getting into that school almost surely kill his chances of getting in by portraying himself as some sort of freaky stalker?3) I don't get this whole thing with the hispanic maids.  It wasn't funny, and I guess we were supposed to learn that rich people in Orange County can't take care of their own families and basic needs, so they pay their hispanic maids to take care of their kids and hold their lives together.  It wasn't funny, and it really did nothing for the plot.4) The sex scene with Jack Black was disturbing.  To me, he came off as a slovenly pervert, and no woman in her right mind would jump his bones when he climbed in the window and dropped his pants.  To think that Jack Black naked makes a woman drool in uncontrollable lust stretches ANY for of imagination.These are just some examples of scenes that either made no sense, or just didn't fit.The thing that bothered me the most is that the whole plot itself didn't make sense.  If the high school sent the wrong transcript, it would be the school's responsibility to clear up the error with the colleges it sent the erroneous transcripts to.  An admissions mistake is not uncorrectable, and could obviously be fixed if it was simply due to a transcript error.  This whole trip wouldn't have been necessary, nor the right way to go about things.Yes, yes, I'm analyzing this a bit more than it deserves.  I've seen many comedies which, while admitting to not being entirely serious, don't leave you scratching your head asking, Why'd they do that? "},{"Title":"lame","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the movie is based on a teen that is assurred a spot on the stanford university acceptance list, but his guidance counselor has made a mistake by mixing the transripts with another students name, and therefore he his rejected by stanford. the whole movie is based on him trying to staighten out the whole mess. once he finally gets everything fixed he decides to not go to stanford. there are SOME funny parts, but mostly the movie is a lame attempt to give some bad actors a job. the movie is for the under 22 crowd, that enjoys watching a bunch of nothing, like drinking, partying, and senseless pranks and accidents. "}{"Title":"I'm not gonna dress this up in fancy words...I hate it!","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow, what a pile of crap and here I thought it would be good, I wonder where I got that from? Maybe coz Jack Black is in it, and as usual he is very good, but man the film is complete shit, boring, cliched, and every other negative word you can think of. Well i'm disappointed because it has a rather good cast, but it's wasted in this mess.Believe me don't see this, maybe the most unintelligent movie i've seen in a long time! "},{"Title":"Less than I would have expected","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OVERALL MOVIE RATING ** stars. An okay movie.ORANGE COUNTY REVIEWI was disappointed that it wasn't as I was expecting. The trailer for this movie make it look a lot better than it actually turned out to be. The one thing that saved this movie was Jack Black and his character. he did a really good job playing Hanks' brother, a pothead.Hanks did a good job with his character too I guess, I mean, I can't blame him for the bad writing in this movie. On the topic of bad, I really hated the music in this. I really hated how they had to play this horrible music between almost every scene. It got really old.Orange County is about a guy who was told he would get into college, but due to a clarical error (the women sent in the wrong admission), he was rejected. He and his brother are determined to get him into the college he was wanted. but it extremely important to Hanks character for fear that if he doesn't he will end up like his brother, a slob with no job, not intending to rhyme.Don't get me wrong, the scenes with Jack Black are good, but for the most part this movie had nothing to offer aside from bad music, bad writing, and not a lot of comedy, not any that actually made you laugh. "},{"Title":"Jack Black in his underwear and ...","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  2 old people visiting the Brumder house hold were the only funny things about this.  I don't think this was a very good comedy.  It just didn't have enough laughs and Colin Hanks is no lead actor.  And the ending was so corny, like an episode from Dawson's Creek.FINAL VERDICT  Not funny enough to bother watching. "},{"Title":"'wonder boys' stuck in 'american pie'","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie sure gave me a bunch of laughs. primarily caused by it's hilarious self-pretence in a sad attempt of being 'deep'. the movie can't seem to decide weather it's a movie for teens with brains included or not. for intelligent teens orange county features too much pee pee poo poo humour, and a plot way too simple, and the brainless model probably doesn't get it. luckily jack black's character does drugs and the two surfer guys are also there to keep the giant of mind interested.techically speaking the movie is only mediocre despite the odd few better-looking shots. same words could be used to describe the directing. the dialogue isn't great, and the soundtrack is awful.with time it becomes clearer and clearer to the viewer that that the only thing that holds it self together throughout the movie is the acting work. all of the actors fit in the movie fine, even the 'cameos' this time. the female actors schuyler fisk and catherine o'hara are stealing the show, great work. o'hara and lithgow are trying to pull an 'american beauty', o'hara is great but lithgow's no kevin spacey let me tell you.as i said, the movie misses it's target audience nicely by trying to be witty and unwitty at the same time. i guess fans of old-time comedy (animal house, the graduate etc.) may find some nice references and stuff here, but personally i couldn't care less, i'd rather just watch those films instead.great cast, dumb film.3/10 "},{"Title":"Waste of time and money","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don't rent this movie if you wana have a good time. You know a movie is not so great when you keep checking to see what time it is. I rented it for Jack Black...he was ok in it, but the whole dude, burn out thing is played out. The characters are cheap versions of ones you've seen in better movies, nothing really exciting happens, it's not very funny at all--it's just a dissapointment. Don't waste your money. Sallow Hall I felt was 10 times better. Waste your money on that instead. "},{"Title":"Very, very bad","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This takes the cake so far for the worst 2002 theatrical release that I've yet seen. It's one of those movies that can't decide if it wants to be an exploitative teen comedy along the lines of American Pie or a poignant teen movie along the lines of some other title that I can't come up with at this time of night. I suppose those two sub-genres could mix quite well, but screenwriter Mike White has no clue how. He populates his movie with cartoony characters who do have a basis in reality, but he emphasizes the cartoonishness of them too much. Catherine O'Hara, for instance, is an alcoholic, but would any mother really behave as she does in front of important regents from Stanford? One character is supposed to be insanely into helping animals, but this point only comes up once in a while and it has no pay off. A wild little dog that is picked up rips up a car seat, but then vanishes for the rest of the film. I know, why should I want a cliched scene of the dog ripping up expensive crap or something, but why even have a nutty dog if he never gets to go nutty?Now, I don't want to be too mean, but sometimes I can't help it Colin Hanks, son of Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson, turns in a truly execrable performance in this film. I know, plenty will jump right on the I-hate-Tom Hanks bandwagon, but I'm not going for such a cheap shot. Tom Hanks is, if nothing else, at least a competent actor. But Colin mugs in the worst way. His whining gets annoying instantly, and I wanted to smack him for most of the film.On the other hand, we have Jack Black. I, for one, am a Jack Black fan. Sure, he hasn't acted in the best movies, but I think he's consistently funny. He's hilarious when he lands the right material, like, for example, High Fidelity. He's actually not bad at all here. He's generally funny. Unfortunately, he's barely in the film. I think he crosses the line here from being a lovable scamp to a criminal maniac, though, which isn't beneficial for the movie. Sure, I can laugh at the stoner Jack Black, but can I laugh at the Jack Black who burns down the Stanford Admissions Office?The director of this film, Jake Kasdan, debuted with the excellent and offbeat The Zero Effect. I reel at the thought of such a huge backstep as Orange County. 4/10.  "},{"Title":"damn","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You have to be an artist to understand what the heck is going on in this movie. It's like discovering yourself, what you want for the future, but all placed in the wrong place and in the wrong time. I'm not an artist, so actually, I didn't like it at all. Trash it. "},{"Title":"Predictable, Stupid MTV Produced Trash for the Tattooed, Nose Ring Crowd","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first stupid premise is that official transcripts and SAT scores can be confused by a guidance counselour, which is bull cause each of those official documents is stamped with all the student's vitals. Maybe they should have settled for someone important confusing student names in their written recommendations. Second, is that after failing to get into Stamford, our would be writer goes ballistic. If you want to be a writer, who says you have to go to college at all? He pesters his rich dad to give Stamford a donation so they'll let him in. Dummy, if you dad is rich and you want to just write, that's heaven!    Not that the twit seem to have one original idea. Colin Hanks, Mr. Wooden Oscar's misbegotten brat, is utterly weak and silly. His character was a surfer partier who got deep after one of his useless friends drowns trying to surf a hurricaine wave. His deepness seems to be the stock Hollywood black and hispanic loving, Babs Streisand approved leftist politics and vapid banter that's supposed to establish his deep soul. Of course his parents and all adults, except for minorities, are jerks. His girlfriend is a monomaniac over all the poor suffering animals. If I knew before I rented it that MTV produced this movie for their dumbass audience, I wouldn't be commenting on it cause I never would have rented it. Avoid it! "},{"Title":"Unfunny opressively dumb","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All right the chick that played shawn's girlfriend is hot.  That's the only good thing about this movie.  All the actors look like they're terribly embarassed in they're poorly developed characters. Too much crass humor for a PG-13.  I don't mind vulgarity if the jokes are actually funny.  But this movie runs and hides behind all the worn out cliches of the teen/runaway genre.  Shawn's disfunctioal family is played for laughs that never elicited a smile from me.  Drunkeness, drugs, neglecting children, and so on is a serious issue and too many movies seem determined to erode even basic family values.  My dad is a recovering alcoholic and there is nothing funny about it in the least. I have a great sense of humore but not for worn out tedium such as this.  "},{"Title":"So funny I Laughed my pants off!!!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great! I just love it! it's about a boy who wants to become a writer. he wants to go to Stanford, but it seems destiny has other things planned for him... so he tries to do everything to get into Stanford anyway and a lot of funny things happen during his adventures. his wacky old brother ( Jack Black)is awesome in this movie! he's like totally wasted and very confused all the time... but he's really funny! this is a movie you can see over and over again, and it's just as good to rent at a blockbuster store as seeing it on the big screen, so if you ever consider to see this movie, just do it!!  "}{"Title":"RIDICULOUS.......DONT WASTE YOUR TIME WITH THIS CRAP.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I went to video store and rented Orange County because Jack Black was in it.  I hadn't heard much about it and decided to give it a try.  I was pleased to see the likes of John Lithgow, Catherine O'Hara and Chevy Chase slated to have small roles in the film.  The joy only went as far as the opening credits.  This movie is BAD.  The writing is terrible (trys hard to follow the same teen genre crap as American Pie and 10 Things I hate about you).  Both of these movies were at least entertaining somewhat.  The latter being a very fun movie in my opinion.  But where those movies succeeded in bringing out the comedy of being a teen in America this fails miserably. Bad jokes, tired acts, and one of the worst lead actors I have ever seen....you would be better suited to go fishing or roller skating then watch this terrible piece of crap.  The saving grace is Black, who plays Lance, the loser older brother who is never going to amount to anything. Well at least Lance can act.  Jesus.  Don't bother with this one unless you like watching really bad movies. JF "},{"Title":"ok movie at best","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie with a decent cast and impressive cast and some humorous moments. It involves a kid who seems a cinch to get into Stanford. Unfortunately, he doesn't because the high school counselor sends in the wrong transcript. He spends the rest of the film trying to convince the college of the mistake and trying to get in. I liked it, though it seemed to drag in too many places. Still, you might like it.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County is a movie that tries so hard to make humor, yet it contradicts itself with pathetic dramatic moments.  When you're expecting Jack Black to actually say or do something funny, he makes the movie even more horrid by feeling sorry for his antics.  And the Hanks kid... he tried to follow in the steps of father, but instead of doing a movie that involves acting, he does a teen comedy.  Catherine O'Hara...I'm supposing she portrays a spoof of an alcoholic mother having a nervous breakdown, but I just can't tell.  I rated the movie with a 2 because it tried to be funny; but it just wasn't. "},{"Title":"And the lesson is?","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie, while humorous thanks to Jack Black, falls flat on its face when we are asked to believe that the aspiring writer has made the right choice for his life -- pass up a Stanford education (studying with his inspiration and idol, no less) and learn to appreciate life with an alcoholic drama-queen mother, a power- and money-addicted selfish father, a druggy brother, a high school sweetheart, and a few surfer buddies.  Please. Let's check back with the main character in about 5 years and see how happy he is with this choice.  Let's see how this overnight transformation of his family (sober mother, interested father, supportive brother, etc) lasts.It is possible that the ending was intentionally awful, but if this was the case, it didn't work.      "},{"Title":"This is comedy ??","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This must be comedy because I think I remember laughing at one point  Why does it seem necessary to have some stupid brainless people in a movie in order to call it teen comedy?? "},{"Title":"Oh My God, Could A Movie Be Any Worse?","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was suckered into seeing this piece of dribble by some buddies that go in for the Dumb & Dumber style of physical humor.  The trap that hooked me was the noteworthy supporting cast.  With Kevin Kline, Chevy Chase, Katherine O'Hara and more (none lightweights of physical comedy), I expected something, anything more than the pathetic excuse that was presented. John Lithgow looked like he was physically in pain while delivering his lines. Some of it could be attributed to having a son like Lance, but I think he may have realized how bad this one was while he was performing it.  The one bright spot may have been the surprise at seeing Ben Stiller as a LAFD uniform.  A pretty small part, and definitely not enough to save this flop. No spoilers here  I left with about half an hour left and snuck across the hall to watch the ending of The Royal Tenenbaums (now THAT movie looks good).  I can only imagine that the prep and the schlep realize that the brotherly bond is stronger than anything.  I wouldn't be surprised if the Freak actually pulled off some outlandish and wholly unbelievable scheme to get his lil Geek bro into Stanford.In my humble opinion, don't waste 2 hours of your life on this hokey garbage.  If you're looking to find a piece of work that director Jake Kasdan could be proud of, try Zero Effect.  And if you're looking to see a better display of our hero, Jack Black's, acting talents.  Well, that's a lot harder, but you may try the scene in The Jackal right before Bruce Willis plugs him with a .50 Caliber Assault Cannon.   "},{"Title":"Thank God there was no orange humping!!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie could be pigeon-holed as just another typical teen hijinks movie. However, it's actually funny, but with no one humping any oranges (thankfully).The movie takes place in Orange County, CA (hence the title) and is centered around over-achiever Shaun played by Colin Mr. Too Cute and Youthful-looking For His Own Good Hanks who after going through an emotional experience decides to go to college and become a writer. After applying to the Ivy-league Stanford University, Shaun is rejected. He later learns that his bone-head guidance counselor sent the wrong transcripts under his name to Stanford. Shaun now must find a way to convince the university to accept him with the help of his dead-beat brother  Lance played by Jack Black and girlfriend Ashley played by Schulyer Fisk. Okay, enough summary.This movie has its differences from the rest of the teen genre in the sense that the main character actually gives a damn about his life  beyond the latest keg party. Shaun's girlfriend Ashley isn't just some dumb chick with no personality or life. However, Ashley's character motivations aren't clear and plus, they could've gotten somebody better-looking to play her. Jack Black's character Lance walks around in his underwear for the majority of the movie. Even though Colin Hanks plays the main protaganist, Jack Black manages to steal the spotlight with his over-the-top comedy. At seeing that it's not just Shaun's brother that is eccentric, but his whole family is a bunch of loons, you begin to understand his desperation for wanting to get into college and get away from them so badly. It's interesting and hilarious to observe the comedy that ensues.The script isn't weighed down with any super gross-out jokes that are so famous in teen movies these days. This might make it hard to convince teens to see this film. Most teens might see the film's lack of gross-out jokes as un-funny. The whole idyllic Orange County lifestyle seems a bit corny in this film.  Some of the high schoolers look and act too stereotypically. The upside is there isn't too much story wasted on attempting to make Shaun look like any less of a geek than he already is. All in all, this movie was a decent start for Colin Hanks' breakthrough role as a starring actor. Tom would be proud. "},{"Title":"I will eat your face!!!","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That is what John Lithgow said to somebody in this brilliant Jack Black film.  I loved the part where Jack Black jumped into the pool to save his brother.  Jack's legs were all moving around like an insect. Super funny.  I also liked the part where Jack Black called his brother Broseph   Haha, that is funny, it rhymes with Joseph.  The main character, played by Tom Hank's son, was good.  He looked very odd in many scenes though and was a little over the top with his obsession with that book that Kevin Kline wrote. Kevin Kline was BORN for that role as the PROFESSOR!!!  He was BRILLIAN!!  However, the best performance of this movie would have to go to my hero, JACK BLACK...who was litereally a bum!!!  HAHA!!  Way to go Jack Black, you delivered the goods again!!! "},{"Title":"It was super-fantastically tremendous...","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One could spend an afternoon of entertainment on IMDb reading all the reviews below for this excrescence and guessing which ones were written by a) studio plants, b) friends of the Hanks family.This movie has called-in favors written all over it. Cronies of Tom Hanks, and anyone famous who owed him five bucks, from the looks of it, could have their debts forgiven if they appeared in this failed effort to launch son Colin Hanks film career. This is the tripe Hollywood produces when untalented people are told they are talented. To perversely underscore the movies unintended, super-amplified danger of nepotism message, it's directed by the son of Lawrence Kasdan.The big ending where Colin decides to bail on college (the motivation you were supposed to care about for the duration of the film!) might seem like a viable message to someone who owes his ability to get the lead role in a film to the influence of his famous parents. Instead of being poignant, the switcharoo is a self-critique delivered by Colin Hanks about the worthlessness of achievements you didn't actually earn. That conclusion might make an undeserving shill feel swell, but after an hour and a half of pained drama-dy it's the final indictment of the cluelessness of all involved.The genetic mix of Tom Hanks doughy average features superimposed over Mrs. Hanks horsey mandibles is the story of genetics struggling to appear photogenic. Colin Hanks has zero presence and his visual ordinariness is the constant reminder that he in no way deserves this tailor-made movie. No surprise that they chose to cover most of his face with oranges, on the poster. Maye you thought someone else was the star. As you watch this movie, keep in mind the throngs of talented unknowns, who might have deserved this much exposure.Does Catherine O'Hara ever know what the hell she is doing on film? (See her heinous perf in Home Fries, the actual worst movie ever made) Jack Black became an official sell-out with this movie. "},{"Title":"What are friends for?","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A wacky, manic movie about a California stoner-turned-scholar(Colin Hanks) being turned down by Stanford University.  He is desperate enough to enlist the help of his girlfriend(Schuyler Fisk) and his totally stoned brother(Jack Black)for alternate ways to be accepted after the usual process failed him. Interesting array of veteran talent try to make this little movie something to remember. Adding the punch to the cast are Chevy Chase, John Lithgow and Catherine O'Hara. A very enjoyable soundtrack helps move the story along. Some pretty good tunes from the Foo Fighters, Red Five, Ivy, Brian Wilson and the Phantom Planet.  "}{"Title":"My poor home town","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie because (a) I come from Orange County, CA, and (2) I wanted to see how Colin Hanks did in his first starring role.  For the thirty or so minutes I could stand of this film, I thought Hanks did all right, as did Schuyler Fisk and some of the rest of the cast.  Jack Black was passable, although perhaps he got better later in the movie.However, the writing and the characterizations were just dreck, the worst of TV sitcoms rolled up in a film canister.  All of the supporting characters were one-dimensional (if there aren't any lower options), and only seemed somewhat familiar with human interaction on Planet Earth.  As a result, situations that the writers must have thought hilarious turned out to be excruciating.  I finally shut it down during the scene with Garry Marshall, after they were interrupted for the third time by some extremely contrived, embarrassing spectacles, culminating in Jack Black's entrance in his underwear. Maybe it becomes Citizen Kane from that point forward, but believe me, I don't care.  I give it a 3 for continuity and the performances of Hanks and Fisk. "},{"Title":"Orange You Embarrassed","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Another of a long line of films that uses this trick a writer writes a story that becomes the movie you see. The only mild flavoring of the template is to give it the tone of Brian Wilson's plaintive harmonies. In the formula, the story is already written before the movie starts, except for the ending. The movie turns into  quest for that ending which reaches its climax when the end of the story so far and the action of the movie coincide.In this film, that is the point when Mom and Dad get back together; Bob suffers a recovery; Jack Black and Jane Adams have hot sex; The head ghostbuster gets stoned; And our young writer meets his virtual mentor (who frees him from his `Straight Jacket'). There's also a lost plot element about a couple dogs. Young writer discovers that Stanford is not the place to go if you want to be a great writer. Duh. The supposedly wicked humor is that staying in doper plasticville is. And that's where this film stays.This is well-trod territory, worthy of an apprentice film. But it can be nobly crafted `the Tempest' is just this. The people behind this project were not ignorant of the implications, so they collected some people with some modicum of intelligence (except the director) about the ideas. Much has been made of Ms Fisk being Spacek's daughter. But Sissy is just an actress. Much more important is Schuyler's father who is the visual partner of the two most intelligent working American directors Lynch and Malick. These guys obsess about the narrative of the film being created by the characters in the film.Add to that two really intelligent actresses Adams and Mann, though they are ultimately wasted. Jane Adams was `Wonder Boys' Oola, and also was in `Anniversary Party,' `Mrs Parker,' and `Kansas City,' each of which address this idea. The only competent directing in the film is when Black and Adams are together. Jane was also key to `Songcatcher' which was about this same notion, except with songs. Leslie Mann was in `Timecode,' and `Perfume,' the last of which greatly resembles this project.Jack Black, you will recall, was best in `High Fidelity,' which is the only recent comedy that successfully walks this trail. in this vein of self-referential writing and teen comedy, `Get Over It' had its problems but was vastly more ambitious and interesting. It follows this trail.Follow the trail by the signposts the extended goof on writers and movies and popular figures in the class and with the Chevy Chase principal; then to the two stagy girly dances; then to the guy at the frat party who also is a `writer.' But as we move through one episode to another they never add. I don't think much of Cameron Crowe, but at least he could do that.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Good actors avoiding the black hole....","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Banal story, absurd jokes and lame dialogues. The actors seem occupied avoiding the joke in this poor film but do not succeed in masking the large hole which animates it. Orange County did not even succeed to fill its role of simple entertainment. Frankly, it is to be avoided...  "},{"Title":"What drugs do I need to take to enjoy this piece of crap?","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Orange County is a fine example of why nepotism can be dangerous. Colin Hanks has little discernible talent and the female lead, who I guess is Sissy Spacek's daughter, in neither attractive or a good actress. I rented this movie because I think Jack Black is hilarious. For this atrocity, though, he should be ashamed. The commercials for this movie were funnier than the actual movie. I can't think of one time during the entire film that I actually laughed. The cast was lame and the script was poorly written, which is ironic because it's a movie about a supposedly brilliant writer tying to get into Stanford. I don't know what college the writer of this film went to, but if i had to guess, it would probably have community somewhere in its name. If you want to see a good coming of age comedy, see Dazed and Confused. "},{"Title":"What an amuzing witty hilariousness!!!!!!!","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow, this movie is really crazy...It's very sarcastic about many social issues.  If you don't get the joke then you might totally miss the points...the points of the jokes of course.  I like the way the scenes are shot.  Depending on emotional connotation of some particular scene the speed of different angels switches around in interesting patterns...Anywho, there aren't that many movies that I'm willing to watch out there, but this movie is one of my picks. "},{"Title":"Flush this turd","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It took me about 20 viewings to actually sit through this stinker.  It's that bad!  What's worse, it seems like every time it was on, it was on the part I had already seen - the inhumanity.Note to the Hank's kid  you're not Tom, so think about a different career.This Colin Hanks kid has no chemistry or charisma.  He's charmless, a real dope.  The movie isn't funny, badly paced, boring, a real stiff.  I've seen wittier lines in porno.  This one is an affront to real movie fans.  Anyone that says different should be lobotomized.  And there's the real truth, Jack. "},{"Title":"'Orange' is blue in comedy","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ** 1/2Starring Colin Hanks, Schuyler Fisk, Jack Black, and Catherine O' Hara.A smart teenager's transcript is switched with the wrong guy, and when it's sent to Stanford, guess who gets accepted. That's right, the guy who didn't even apply there.  The over-achieving genius and his drug-addicted brother travel to Stanford to get things straight and get him into college.Jack Black and Colin Hanks do the best they can to make this blue comedy funny.  When I say it's blue in comedy, I mean it lacks it.  The movie has a funny plot and funny cameos, but it isn't funny enough to give the film three stars.It's close, but not quite. "},{"Title":"A pleasant time in Orange County","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Orange County is as light as a feather, but almost consistently entertaining about a frustrated high school senior with high hopes to get into Stanford and leave his crazy family and vacuous town behind. But when his dim bulb guidance counselor mixes up his transcript with that of a moronic burn out, he goes into panic mode to undue the damage and get himself into his dream school which rejected him. His trainwreck of a family are the obstacles that keep his plans from ever materializing into anything but embarrassing defeats. The first two acts are basically episodic comedic situations, but there's enough wit and manic energy here to overcome the TV episode feel to most of the film. With barely the running time of a feature film, Orange County missteps a bit in the last act, which takes place at Stanford and while some of the situations still prove funny - the dean of admissions played by Harold Ramis accidentally taking ecstasy is an inspired bit - it feels more like an overlong screenplay deviation than a last act. Kasdan and Hanks put enough effort and charm into the picture to counter any arguments of nepotism, but Schuyler Fisk has zero screen presence and the charm of a dead goat. Orange County has enough heart to coast by and while not exactly the most memorable film, is funny enough to recommend. "},{"Title":"Shall I get naked and start a revolution?","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shaun Brumder is from Orange County, and dreams of going to Stanford to become a writer, and to get away from his dysfunctional family household. Except he runs into one complication after another starting when his application is rejected after his guidance counsellor sends the wrong application. So, Shaun goes to great lengths with a little help from his girlfriend Ashley and his drugged-out loser brother Lance to get into Stanford any way they see fit....This was another case of bad advertising here in the UK. When it was first released, it was heralded as a stoner movie, with Black being the focus of the whole movie.Eleven years down the line, I decided to give it a chance, and while its nothing special, just another caper about some wrong papers being sent, and one mans journey for his dream, it's the wealth of support that the film has.Not to mention that the film has so many prolific actors in it, probably because the director is Lawrence Kasdan. It isn't a bad thing, but its a case of not what you know, but who you know.So all in all, it's pretty generic stuff, but not including credits, the film last for just over 72 minutes, so it comes and goes swiftly. "},{"Title":"Beulah, Slice Me an Orange","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shaun Brumder (Colin Hanks) is content to be a bright, talented, but unfocused Southern California surf slacker- until the day he discovers a novel by acclaimed author Martin Skinner. Inspired, he suddenly realizes his life's ambition to leave behind mind-numbing 'Orange County' and study creative writing with Skinner at Stanford University. But, after being denied enrollment due to an admissions error, Shaun is forced to seek help from not only his girlfriend Ashley (Schuyler Fisk), but also his hopelessly dysfunctional parents, stoner brother Lance (Jack Black), and a host of hilarious circumstances, to make his dream of escaping his hometown nightmare a reality, according to the DVD sleeve description.Typical dumb teen comedy with the usual over-the-hill youngsters - herein, the leading twosome being more famous as the son of Tom Hanks (Colin Hanks) and the daughter of Sissy Spacek (Schuyler Fisk). If you didn't know it already, friends and relations can be found running rampant around the cameras. Lesser known Lawrence Kasdan, since he's mostly found behind the camera, is the father of Orange County director Jake Kasdan. He gets Chevy Chase, Kevin Kline, John Lithgow, Garry Marshall, Catherine O'Hara, Harold Ramis, Ben Stiller, Lily Tomlin, Mike White, and Brian Wilson to participate. Not a bad lot. The veterans are fine, but the stars are less so; and, the film never really penetrates its boundaries.**** Orange County (1/7/02) Jake Kasdan ~ Colin Hanks, Schuyler Fisk, Jack Black, Catherine O'Hara "}{"Title":"don't waste your money","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I hate this film. it's so pretentious. and I can see that this was directed by some bratty son of a famous director, who thought he was some hot shot. I read a whole lot of great reviews on this film, which is why I bought the DVD. I can't believe people out there are such morons. the acting is all bad, Cos the script is bad. everything seems forced. the funny thing is that I'm one of those guys that never liked Jack Black, but the fact that he's the only funny thing happening in this film says a lot. There are all these other actors I've admired over the years-Catherine O'Hara, Chevy Chase, Harold Ramis-and it seems like they were just thrown in this movie randomly to save this poor excuse of a comedy. I guess since the 90's there hasn't been any good teen comedies. only cheesy ones like these. the 80's had bad music but it definitely had the best teen comedies. "},{"Title":"the greatest movie ever","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" sorry, O.C. is a cinematic masterpiece. it was obvious to me then, and still obvious to me now.no, it's not in the cards, brosefso I need to write more. o.k. sorry, O.C. is a cinematic masterpiece. it was obvious to me then, and still obvious to me now.sorry, O.C. is a cinematic masterpiece. it was obvious to me then, and still obvious to me now.sorry, O.C. is a cinematic masterpiece. it was obvious to me then, and still obvious to me now.sorry, O.C. is a cinematic masterpiece. it was obvious to me then, and still obvious to me now. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie that sneaked under the radar","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow. I have seen this movie for several years in the video store, but it never really piqued my interest. I just recently signed up for one of those rent-by-mail DVD things (you probably know the company, but they ain't payin' me, so they can do their own plugs), and this was one of their Instant Watch movies, so I decided to give it a try. (They also were suggesting it pretty heavily based on my previous movie ratings.)While there is some silliness in this movie, none of it comes across as completely unbelievable, nor simply thrown onto the pile of already ludicrous gags. (Okay, a lot of it is highly unlikely, but many of us with family who only seem to function when they're screwing something up can relate...)The plot is not completely original (guy tries to get into college, many hare-brained schemes blow up in face, zany characters abound, life lessons sprinkled here and there), but it is pulled off brilliantly. I can thoroughly enjoy dopey, even bad movies, but this one actually EARNED the laughs it brought forth! (It is very hard these days to find a movie with real laughs in it. I found myself laughing out loud to several sections of this film. Even other movies I've enjoyed have had a very difficult time doing this.)The writer for this movie, Mike White (cameo as the English teacher) really knows funny! He also wrote School of Rock (cameo there as Ned Schneebly), and has definitely proved himself in my book.The cast of Orange County is stellar. Colin Hanks delivers a truly sublime performance, acting the sensitive, intelligent straight man to an all-star cast of misfits, managing to carry the viewer eagerly through his tale of dreams and obstacles without veering toward the After School Special feeling. Catherine O'Hara and John Lithgow are a delight to the screen, and Jack Black brings the laughs by the shovelful. (There are tons of other fantastic comedy cameos in this film; read the cast list, and you'll see a who's who of comedy greats in the last 20 years.)This movie strikes an almost perfect balance between zany laughs and feel-good moments. It manages to entertain without focusing on laughs-at-any-cost, and manages to be feel good without tending towards the maudlin or sappy.If you liked American Beauty, School of Rock, National Lampoon's Vacation, you should run not walk to the nearest video store and treat yourself to some laughs! "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought this movie was one of the worst movies ever made! It was horrible. You should not show this movie to your children. It is over their heads. It is a vulgar and insulting film. This is my personal opinion so do not hate me for it. It was all stupidity piled one right over the other. I was so happy when it ended. I just thought it was a waste of my time and I wasted one hour and thirty minutes of my life. I do not recommend this movie. It was all of these things. Bad. Vulgar. Terrible. Sick. Bad acting. Worst film ever! Insulting. Waste. Loss. Not important. Movie you can do without. So listen to me if you please for I speak the truth. Thank you for your time. "},{"Title":"Well it's still the best live action movie from MTV films (even if that's a dubious honor indeed)","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Orange County native Shaun Brumder is a high school kid who wants desperately to go to Stanford to get away from the OC which he believes to be a detrimental environment unsuited for his writing abilities. After his guidance counselor sends in the wrong application causing him to be denied, he must take matters into his own hands to get in that school come hell or high water. There's a lot of things wrong with this film It reeks of nepotism, with acting roles going to the son of Tom Hanks, daughter of Sissy Spacek, the Director being the son of Lawrence Kasdan. It also, like every other MTV project, relies way to often on 'flavor of the week' music. And the storyline is pretty far from original. These three things are offset a tad by the great performance of Jack Black, however he's not given as much screen time needed to save this supremely mediocre production.My Grade C DVD Extras Commentary by Director Jake Kasdan and Writer Mike White; 4 Deleted Scenes; 15 Promo Spots; and Theatrical Trailer "},{"Title":"Raspberry","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A pretty lame comedy. It's a very L.A. sort of project, with the writer also as an actor, directors also acting and the progeny of actors acting - everyone having a go. I'd made the assumption that it was written around the casting of Hanks' son Colin in the lead, although it's probable that it's a more general love-in. Hanks Jr. is, in fact, really very good indeed, self-possessed and always watchable. Of the support Schuyler Fisk is dependable, if non-descript, as the homegirl love-interest; Jack Black and John Lithgow goof around; Kevin Kline, Chevvy Chase and Harold Ramis appear in cameo, no more.The story is a single idea fleshed out with irrelevant plot meanderings to cater for slapstick and set pieces. Most of these are handled in no more than a cursory manner. There seems to be no directorial grip on the material. No doubt in this ensemble there is a fatally democratic approach to making the film. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Orange County","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't care what everyone else says. I loved this movie. I thought his surfer friends were hilarious and how his brother burns down the Stanford building. Ha ha ha, maybe a little stupid yeah sure but the randomness of this movie is what makes it so unpredictable. I notice a lot of people bash this movie for stupid reasons. It has a good ending and flows some what nicely. His girlfriend always has this positive attitude without a care in the world except for animals of course. She brings a lot of joy to the story. I love the scene where he gets to meet Marcus Skinner. It brings reality into the movie. I love this movie. I can watch it all day sometimes. All in all its wholesome and well drawn. "},{"Title":"excellent film to watch with family or kids","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Film shows a critical period in the life of Shaun Brumder, a local surfer kid from Orange County, who spends most of his time on the beach with his dudes. One day he finds a book of professor Marcus Skinner half-buried in the sand at the beach. From this day on Shaun dreams of escaping his dysfunctional family and of going to Stanford University, to study with professor Skinner and to become a writer. When his application is rejected after his guidance counselor mistakenly sends out the wrong application transcripts to Stanford, his whole world collapses. With help of his girlfriend and his brother, Shaun goes to great lengths to get into Stanford any way they see fit.Orange County isn't a truly important cinematic masterpiece, but quite possibly one of the funniest and smartest teen-comedies of the last few years. The enjoyable plot, without the pointless American Pie style insults, wandering for a car or bathing in urine, makes you really laugh on an intellectual basis. With an extraordinary soundtrack and an amazing cast - Colin Hanks, Schuyler Fisk, Kevin Kline and Jack Black, who plays Shaun's wacky stoned brother - the film brings along everything you need to spend a good moment with your family and friends. In conclusion I appreciated this film as very inspiring for young people. Orange County tells a wonderful teenage story, which gives the spectators a good laugh and creates a sense of well-being. "},{"Title":"A worthy effort","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having been hunting down a copy of this film for a while after its rather limited cinema release, I have to confess that I didn't know that it was made by an MTV team until I started watching it.Unfortunately, once you do, that pedigree's obvious.To borrow a description from the late, great Eric Morecambe it was playing all of the right notes, but not necessarily in the right order.It just comes across as trying to straddle into the standard teen comedy formula on occasion - presumably trying to capture as much of the teen audience as it can get, without losing MTV street cred by having the gall to be clever.Compared to other members of the intelligent teen comedy sub-genre, like 'Ten Things I Hate About You' or 'Loser', the jokes're just a little too unsubtle, slapstick or even just borderline lowest common denominator in places, the soundtrack's just that bit too loud and obtrusive...It strikes me as either a cynical attempt to play both the slacker and intelligent sides of the teen audience, or an honest attempt at a more cerebral comedy by a team that's not familiar enough with that side of things to quite do it right.The cast can't be blamed. Colin Hanks is definitely his father's son, with that same geeky charm (that also puts me in mind of Tobey Maguire) that makes him an appealing, everyman lead.As Hanks' permanently-drugged up older brother, Jack Black plays essentially the same character as always (although he doesn't sing this time), but as ever, steals every scene he's in. As the workaholic father who can't make his second family work any better than his first, John Lithgow is underused just to the point of making you want to see a little more of him, but also to the point where you appreciate what might've happened if his screen time'd been taken any further.The storyline was standard for the genre. The morality and messages were all there. Everyone on screen did what they could with the available material.But although there were some points of real empathy for the lead character, to me, the heart wasn't.To me, a film like this can work if the situations're as outlandish as you like, but the relationships between the leading characters come across as real.But the characterisations weren't all on the same level. The leads (with the possible exception of Jack Black) were all fairly real, but the supporting cast were pushed too far into parody.The friendships and family relationships just didn't feel real and plausible enough to have that *click* factor, drawing the viewer into the protagonist's story. It's little wonder that Hanks felt like an everyman when you'd probably've had to be a martian to be more of an oddball than the characters he was surrounded by.All in all, an okay little film. But not great.To quote (I believe it was) Doctor Johnson when describing the Giant's Causeway Worth seeing. But not worth going to see. "},{"Title":"Has Tom Hank's son really accomplished much as an actor so far?","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Colin Hanks has a lot to live up to seeing that his father is one of the best actors of our time. He needs to talk to his father more about acting and less about what he can cameo in. To answer my question, he really hasn't. If he wants to be as lovable as the great Tom Hanks is today, he better start with the Peter Jackson-directed King Kong which is aiming for a December release in 2005.Orange County stars Colin Hanks and Jack Black as Shaun and Lance Brumder. They're part of a dysfunctional family in Orange County, California. As school ends for the summer, Shaun realizes that he didn't get into the university he wanted to while his girlfriend did. Actually when he walks out onto the main campus on the last day of school and sees everyone getting into school, some people who can't even pronounce the names of the universities they got accepted to, he knows he's hit rock bottom. He lives with his mom and his brother as they live in an expensive mansion with pool house while their dad lives on the other side of town. Down a low, Shaun doesn't know what to do. He talks to Lance, who is a lazy, drug-taking dropout. When Shaun's girlfriend gets him a chance from her friend's dad to enter a university, during their visit to Shaun's house, the family blows the chance due to vulgarity and stupidity. Now he's going straight to the university to complain with his girl and his bro. The somewhat of a teen movie has now begun... I don't want to spoil so I'll leave it at that.Orange County reminds you of today's super-popular TV hit The O.C., which was probably inspired by this film. I'd say this was a much better idea as a TV series as opposed to an 82-minute motion picture. What's funny is The O.C even got Colin Hanks as a cameo appearance in The L.A episode of last season.Overall, Orange County is a bland comedy, which wants to tell you it's a teen movie. It tries hard to stand up but falls apart from time to time. It may drag on forever but the jokes are good. Actually the only thing keeping you in this movie is the jokes from Colin and Jack and there's even a cameo by Ben Stiller. If you want more Orange County fun, watch this and then be done with it. Then start to addictively brainwash your mind with The O.C on television.My Rating 6/10Eliason A. "}{"Title":"A promising start, and a lying finish.","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a movie that is not like most teen movies. The great thing about this movie is that instead of following the teenage boy, it follows his old step father. He seems to be about 75 to 80 years old. Now Sean, the step son, is a high school student who recently applied for Stanford U, but was rejected. Basically, his story ends there it the movie goes on to focus on the life and times of Bob.The character Bob is unlike any other. Instead of being your average run-of-the-mill crippled old man, he is an old man who, for some reason that is never explained in the movie, jumps up and dances whenever he hears a song by White Snake.Now, this movie is not what you would expect when you hit the play button, but it is lively entertaining. That is, up until about half way into the filmAt about halfway in, Bob stops his antics and the rest of the movie(which is about an hour and a half)is focused on Bob's everyday routine. The camera changes angles on Bob as he sleeps, and he occasionally eats some kind of corn meal cake or something, which he can't seem to handle without ruining his shirt.Basically, the film started strong, but watching Bob soil his shirt and roll around on a couch for an hour and a half just isn't what the ending should be. Bob's antics could have lasted longer, and the soundtrack for this film, in my opinion, should probably only have Here I go Again by White Snake, because that is the only song played and it is played about 30 times.Bob, let's just hope that if you return for a sequel, it will be a little more action-packed.5 out of 10, because half of the movie was good. "},{"Title":"Beyond pointless and stupid","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'll keep this brief.  THIS MOVIE SUCKED.  It was pitiful.  Lame story, no direction, unfunny premise, unfunny acting, shallow characters, pointless.  I hated this movie.  The only thing I'm laughing about is thinking about the idiots in this comments section that are saying how great this movie is. Don't see this movie.  It is horrible. "},{"Title":"unexpected but great movie","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie was somewhat different than other summer/teen movies... it had an different story not the expected... just a whole different subject with different subjects in it... and a great introduction of actors and actresses that have been in the industry but not many have known them... "},{"Title":"The kids of Tom Hanks, Sissy Spacek, and Lawrence Kasden do good!!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County on DVD I borrowed from my county library system, I wasn't expecting much except to see a silly comedy featuring the son of Tom Hanks and the daughter of Sissy Spacek, two actors I have seen grow up, from Tom's days as a young man in the TV series Busom Buddies and Sissy as a young girl in Carrie. It does have its silly moments but overall it is an excellent film with many quirky characters and  small parts by many of our favorite comedy actors. The DVD picture is superb, one of the better ones I've seen recently. The critic Ebert gives a good, complete, accurate review. Shaun wants to be a writer and thinks he has to go to Stanford. His girlfriend want to stay in Orange County. Shaun's drugged up and spaced out brother (Jack Black) makes things interesting. It is mostly a story about a young man finding out what is really important in life, not unlike the story in Good Will Hunting, but funnier.some SPOILERS follow, quit reading now or else. Shaun finds a book on the beach, Stanford author/professor (Kevin Kline), vows to go there, writes a novella Orange County basically about himself and his quirky family and friends but has no ending, sends to professor, incompetent school counsellor sends wrong transcript, Shaun is rejected, goes to Stanford to try and get in, brother burns down admissions building, Shaun meets author/professor, has a good talk, goes home, dad and mom get back together, dad is wealthy, gets Shaun into Stanford by donating money for a building (the one his own son burned down), Shaun realizes he doesn't need to go to Stanford to be a good writer, stays home, knows how his story will end. "},{"Title":"Not witty, not clever, usually not funny","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This belongs in the same genre as Jay & Silent Bob movies, and is almost as badly written. Basically, it's a story of a young, nerdy kid who didn't get into Stanford because of a clerical error, and acts like his life will end if he doesn't get in right away. (He's not all that bright, as the thought of waiting for Winter quarter to get in fails to occur to him.) Anyway, a bunch of supposedly zany things happen to him as he tries to get admitted, a process inadvertantly hindered in one way or another by his caricature-dysfunctional California family.That's not a great premise, and it's an even worse movie, because from there, all the gags follow a predictable, by-the-numbers course. I do remember a few guilty laughs for low-brow physical humor, but it takes more than that to make a funny movie. Oh, and tacked on to all that is supposed to be some sort of a heart-warming point, a lesson they all learned that day. But it's so lame that you wish they just stuck to fall-down look, I'm stoned and silly routines.  "},{"Title":"not bad...pleasantly surprised","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie ain't that bad, definitely has its moments and is worth a look. Colin Hanks is impressive, his anger is funny and his 'coming -of age' is not too corny. Jack Black is stupid as ever in his role but what more do you want of a hairy fat man?  I think anyone who likes the teen movies will enjoy this one and everyone will cringe at the scene where the grandfather comes to interview Shaun, funny but cruel. "},{"Title":"Didn´t expect it to be this good","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If I remember correctly I rented this nice little movie just because I couldn´t find anything else, it had John Lithgow and the reviews on the DVD package suggested an enjoyable comedy. In the age of annoying teen flicks Orange County actually turned out to be really refreshing.Orange Country stands out because of its funny script and strong cast. I can´t remember the names of the lead pair (Tom Hanks´ son and Sissy Spacek´s daughter, right?), but they were both good. But it´s the supporting players - John Lithgow, Catherine O´Hara, Jack Black, Lily Tomlin - who deserve praises. John Lithgow is always great, he´s one of the great comedians out there. If you don´t believe me just watch an episode of the 3rd Rock From The Sun. Catherine O´Hara (best remembered for her roles in those two Home Alone movies) is also a standout as a mother with a minor drinking problem. Jack Black as a junkie provides many laughs and Lily Tomlin plays a school counselor who doesn´t take her job that seriously. All this adds up to an enjoyable little movie experience. Definitely worth renting.  "},{"Title":"not great, but entertaining","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  being that i live here near orange county, i was interested in the movie mainly for that reason (and the awesome soundtrack).  while it will never win any awards, and is ultimately an afterthought, a throw-away, it was fairly well-written and acted.  plus, i'm a fan of colin hanks because of roswell, and all the cameo performances made it fun.what bothered me about some of the other reviews is that they blast the movie as putting forth stereotypical caricatures of southern california, yet none of those people actually live here.  hanging out at huntington beach on a saturday afternoon in the summer, you will most likely see everyone from the movie, and probably even some wackier characters.schuyler fisk was a refreshing new face, john lithgow and catherine o'hara as hanks' parents were a riot, but the whole movie was really held together by jack black, who's comedic interjections always seemed to break up any tension and move along the slow portions of the movie (which for a 82 minute movie, there were a few).if you had great expectations for this movie, then i'd give you maybe a rating of 3 or 4 out of 10, but if you're looking for something cute and entertaining while being relatively banal, then it's worthy of an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Entertainment and teen agitation on the California Orange County beach.	","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `Orange County' is funny comedy flick starring to the star born Colin Hanks, the Tom Hank's son and Schuyler Fisk, the Sissy Spacek's daughter. Good couple of art's son and in fact they give a good performance in this classic teen-agers movie but with something to more( but Colin not possess the same fascination to the Father), the movie mixed very comedy and a little bit of drama, that it's the based of the story. Shaun is a surf- guy that live in Orange County and pass his day between the school and the beach, but his greatest wish is going away to the Stanford University at the end of the Secondary School, where teach his favourite writer, for escape to his unhappy realty the Mother is a divorce alcoholic, the Father a egoist business man and the brother is a drug fun. But is not easy going away to Orange County&#133;.  All of this in comic key, but without forget that in deeper the imperfection is life's part. Great formation of supporting actors, John Lightow in the Father's role, Catherine O'hara  as the Mother, and the more funny of the brunch Jack Black as the toxic Brother, and many special appearance Chevy Chase, Kevin Kline. Harold Ramis, Lily Tomlin and Ben Stiller. Laughter and amusing for everyone. My rate is 6.          "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Shaun(Colin Hanks) hates his hometown Orange County and he also cannot stand living with his disfunctional family. He applies to his dream school Stanford, hoping to become a successful writer but to his horror he finds out that he school guidance counselor send out the wrong transcript. Now, with the help of his girlfriend Ashley(Schuyler Fisk) and his fat drug addict brother Lance(Jack Black) he will do anything to get accepted to Stanford. This was a hilarious comedy, Jack Black, Colin Hanks and Catherine O'Hara( who played shaun's alcoholic mother) were awesome. I would give Orange County 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"Ehhhhh.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Despite great performances by the cast, this one fell a little flat. The film seemed unfocused. Was it a screwball comedy about a kid and his stoner brother (as I felt it was advertised)? Or was it a touching love story about a kid's conflicting dreams? Or was it about a kid who just wants to get into college?Lots of films incorporate several sub plots, but this film needed to pick one and make it the focus. The problem was probably in the editing room. I would like to go back and put in more Jack Black. He was definitely the strongest part of the film.All in all, six out of ten. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A really funny flick about my hometown area","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a native of Orange County, this was a film that generated a lot of initial excitement for me-- just by its title alone. When news of production hit the media, most of us double-checked to make sure it wasn't the other Orange County (Florida). But we lucked out-- it was us!!The film overall was pretty good. On a scale of 1 to 10, I give `Orange County' a 7½. Not since the 1980s skater-flick, `Gleaming the Cube', has our county been greatly exhibited on the silver screen. But unlike `Gleaming the Cube', `Orange County' wasn't extensively filmed within county lines. More on that later.Colin Hanks, whom the film is mainly based, gave a great performance. Throughout the movie, it is hard to not notice the familiar voice and mannerisms of his famous father, Tom Hanks. Schuyler Fisk, daughter of Sissy Spacek, played the hottie red-head girlfriend to Hank's character.Jack Black really made this film work. I busted a gut at least 4-5 times over his screwball antics-while he mostly is found donning only underwear. No one can ever replace comedic great, Chris Farley, but Black comes really close in the laugh-a-minute scale.Comic veterans made their appearances-- mostly minor with cameos. Chevy Chase appeared as the high school principal-- who we come to find out his inquisitiveness of Britney Spears. Lily Tomlin appeared character-like from her `Laugh-In' days as a high school counselor, who is somewhat of an airhead, but none the least short of martial arts knowledge. Catherine O'Hara and John Lithgow appeared in a good chunk of the film as the divorced parents of Hank's and Black's characters.The delight of the veterans, for me at least, was Harold Ramis as the Dean of Admissions of Stanford University. As a longtime `Ghostbusters' fanatic, his role in the film was for sure welcomed. He gave a funny and shocking performance-- and I was laughing the whole time he was on screen. His appearance looked really good in the film-- in contrast to his appearance as a house-doctor in `One Fine Day' in which he looked like he weighed the most he ever did in a motion picture.Did `Orange County' really pay homage to the real county of Orange? For the most part yes-- but the film mainly follows the venture to the Los Gatos area of Stanford University. The beach scenes in the film, which were said to be Laguna or Corona Del Mar, actually were filmed on the beaches of Malibu-- in L.A. Their high school, which is reminiscent of a high-class campus in southern Orange County, was actually filmed at a Pomona campus-- also in L.A. There are references in the film, which pay respect to the county, by mildly naming cities and locations. Newport Beach is mentioned a time or two. Fisk's character exclaims the rescuing of a dog on PCH (Pacific Coast Highway). My all time favorite mention would be John Lithgow's smug comment on the size of property that he owns in Irvine.All in all a great film. Go rent it. Go buy it. Tell your friends! "},{"Title":"A first rate comedy.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This could easily have been a rather silly movie, if the script had been trite and superficial, with a lead character cast from the ranks of the mindlessly handsome, but fortunately it is bright as a penny, intelligent at every turn, witty, insightful, and at times profound.  The main character is not just another plastic doll, in love with himself, but a more intricate person, caught up in a dysfunctional world.  Psychologists see family-systems like his all the time, and his is a textbook case.  To that extent, the portrayal of the dysfunctional family is hilariously believable, but the main character has to somehow resolve all that conflict, and the result makes for an excellent story.It is a very perceptive narrative, with well crafted characters.  Some of the scenes my seem over the top at times, because it is after all a comedy, but there is also plenty of depth to be considered, and that makes it more than just a comedy.  Ultimately, we learn something which transcends all the dysfunctionality, and returns us to a richer appreciation of the family.  Therefore, while it begins like a leg-pulling exercise, it delivers a valuable lesson, and the journey in between is entirely enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Awesome.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I related to this movie on so many levels. The wanting out of the hometown(Hawaii's beautiful but boring),the character who's smart but lazy (that's me. School sucks), the parents who are oblivious to their kid's wants, and most importantly the unexpected inspiration. Shaun finds inspiration from a book he found buried in the sand at the beach. I found inspiration from a movie that, I'll admit, thought looked like garbage but saw it because I was bored. That's right, the movie that inspired me to write was one I didn't even want to see. It reminds me of a quote I once heard Searching for inspiration is a surefire way to never get it. "},{"Title":"A comic gem","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the oddball family to go down in history.  Jack Black shines. The movie is damn funny and witty.  The guy's stepdad is awesome.  Thumbs up. B+, 8/10 "},{"Title":"Better then the average teen comedy.","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County is a teen comedy with a difference. It doesn't rely on gross gags and the like to tell its story. Instead, it focuses on Shaun Brumder, a former surf dude turned intellect ,who wants to be a writer and has applied for Stanford University. However, due to a mix up with another student, he doesn't get in. He then tries anything he can to get in with the help of his loving girlfriend, Ashley, and his constantly stoned older brother, Lance.The best thing about the film is Jack Black as Shaun's brother Lance. He hits the whole stoner routine right on the head and is a joy to watch. He very nearly steals the whole film. Colin Hanks ( the son of Tom Hanks ) looks very promising and it would be interesting to see where he goes from here. This film is a showcase for sons and daughters of Hollywood performers and film makers. As well as Colin Hanks, you also have Schuyler Fisk ( Sissy Spacek's daughter ) as Ashley and director Jake Kasdan is the son of Lawerence Kasdan.Another highlight is the appearances of several comedy performers. Catherine O'Hara ( Maculey Culkin's mum in Home Alone ) plays Shaun's drunk mother, John Lithgow ( the alien dad from Third Rock from the sun ) plays Shaun's estranged father, Chevy Chase ( veteran of many comedy films such as the National Lampoon series ) has a brief appearance as a horny principal, Harold Ramis ( director of many comedy films as well as Egon in the Ghostbusters series ) plays the head of admissions at Stanford, Garry Marshall ( writer, director and producer of many comedy films and TV shows ) as the head of Stanford, Kevin Kline as writer Marcus Skinner who inspired Shuan and finally Ben Stiller as a fireman. Quite a list there!Although I did mention that the film doesn't rely on gross out gags to get a laugh, that doesn't mean that there aren't any. However, all the gags are relevant to the plot and are not just put there for the sake of it.Overall, this is a surprisingly good comedy thats well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Funny, heart-warming, but not all that special","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All the commercials I'd seen for 'Orange County' before its theatrical release made me want to avoid it; I wasn't too terribly impressed with what I saw in the ads.  But after we got it in at the video rental store I work at, I watched it for free at work one day, and was pleasantly surprised how good it actually is.  As funny as movies like the 'American Pie' flicks are, toilet humor sometimes does belong in the toilet, so when a relatively clean yet funny movie like 'Orange County' is released, it's a breath of fresh air, needless to say.Yet there's a plethora of comedies out there in the same vein - or at least that lose the quickly-aging toilet humor popular in the past few years - that is time much better spent.  I'm starting to lose count of the number of times I've watched 'Monty Python & the Holy Grail,' 'Office Space,' 'Dude, Where's My Car?,' 'Tommy Boy,' 'Spaceballs,' and 'Canadian Bacon.'A good movie to watch with friends, but don't expect too much out of it. "},{"Title":"good flick","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While this teen flick was not a great or memorable movie by any means, it was at least very nice and very entertaining. Better than the movie itself were its stars. Colin Hanks shows a strong resemblence too some of the comic work of his father. And Jack Black is better than ever and just as insane. If you are in the mood for a well written and well acted teen comedy with out any bodily fluids, see this movie 7/10  "},{"Title":"Clever and hilarious","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was fantastic!  The protagonist and his girlfriend are phenomenal actors and I had no idea they were the progeny of famous people until after I watched it.  The characters were great- clever and hilarious.  I think this movie had both brains and heart.   "},{"Title":"One of the better comedy movies of the new millenium","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw Orange County on DVD and I honestly have to say it was enjoyable. I actually liked the premise of the film about a guy trying to get into Standford and having a normal-disfunctional family that interfere with his plans. All the actors in the film were great. I even have to admit that though he's the son of one of the most overrated actors ever (Tom Hanks), Colin Hanks was pretty good in this for his first go around in a big screen flick. As usual, Jack Black was splendid (almost to realistic..makes you wonder?) as the role of the drugged out brother who has a system of rearranging the prescription drugs that he's taking into different asprin bottles. Catherine O'Hara is great as the mother, who's been forced to re-marry and older (and now invalid) man. John Lithgow was great as the dad too. He, of course always plays the same roles, it was pretty much the same character that he played in Third Rock, he just wasn't an alien.  Overall the film was entertaining. I probably enjoyed it more for the fact that I didn't see it in the theatres and felt that the DVD and its extras and other options provided a better movie watching experience. I'm not going to highly recommend this film but will acknowledge that it is one that people should rent and see if they're looking for a good flick to catch at the video store. "}{"Title":"Better Than Expected.....","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was stuck on a 21 hour flight with a choice of 10 movies Orange County, Shipping News, Charlotte Gray, Hart's War, My Life as A House, My Baby is Dying of Cancer (or something like that), some movie about a miner's wife; two Chinese action flicks and an utterly uncomprehensible Indian film......Suffice to say I wound-up watching Orange County six times on that flight.This may not sound like a rining endorsement.  However, had I not been forced to watch that movie, I would have ignored it on cable and on video.  The trailers made it out to be some type of horny teenager movie and the cable-tv ads made it seem like Jack Black does a low-budget Tom Green.What does this mean?  Well, the movie is more entertaining than the marketing campaign makes you believe.  There are some truly funny moments - the wrong candidate getting into Stanford (Dude, I didn't even apply...this is scary man); the stoned Dean of Admissions spouting statistical babble (you are right, 92%......); the Stanford girls shrieking over a then-popular rap song.Not a reat movie.....but it does have it moments.  Plus the soundtrack is really good!  "},{"Title":"Good job.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is of course is set in Orange County, CA. It follows Shaun Brumder (Colin Hanks, yes he's Tom's son). Shaun feels he would be content to spend his whole life in Orange County just surfing. When he discovers a book in the sand he suddenly becomes engrossed in it reading it repeatedly. He then starts writing and becomes obsessed with it. And the writer of the book he loved Marcus Skinner becomes his literary hero. He then decides he must get into Stanford to study under Skinner(Kevin Kline). When his guidance counselor sends in the wrong transcript he is shocklingly rejected from Stanford. Then with the help of his brother who constanly does drugs (Jack Black) and girlfriend (Schuyler Fisk) he must try to get into Stanford. Not helping are his constantly drunk mother (Catherine O'Hara) and very conceited father who is divorced from his mother (John Lithgow). It is hilarious and everyone does a great job in it.   "},{"Title":"ignore these reviews...","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a good movie ignore these morons who complain about every little detail till they ruin the movie for themselves, who cares where a movie is shot? Geez the movie had good acting, a good story and yes it was pretty funny. And it's really a movie almost any age person can watch, now a days at least the sexuality isn't much and the language isn't bad at all Jack says the F word once that's about it so for the most part it's suprisingly clean, there's a few decent songs played in the movie and of course Jack Black having a role is reason enough he's hilarious, anybody that just enjoys movies and doesn't have a stick up their butts should see this, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    I recently bought the Orange County DVD because it is just simply hilarious. Not too gross, not too sophisticated, Orange County is painfully funny. It will have you rolling on the ground hoping to God you don't have a heart attack. It is really that funny. I recommend it to everyone in need of a good laugh! Jack Black, although not the star, steals the show from very good up and coming start Colin Hanks. (yes, he is Tom's son). With a great supporting cast including John Lithgow, Catherine O'Hara ,Chevy Chase, Harold Ramis, and Lily Tomlin, Orange County is fun for everyone! "},{"Title":"Why can't . . .","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  TV and film scenes that purport to be at Stanford actually be shot at Stanford instead of some sorry stand-in?  If it's the producers who don't want to shoot at the real school (which is plenty photogenic), then shame on them.  If Stanford refuses to allow producers to shoot there, then shame on the school for depriving movie-watchers of the real thing.  (Besides, having the university's actual campus depicted on the big screen could be a great recruiting tool for the school.) "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie!  The comedy is actually pretty clean and the story is quite interesting.  It surprises me that I would like a movie like this because of the characters.  What I mean by this is that they are just about all a bunch of human-rejects.  Shaun's (Colin Hanks) mother (Catherine O'Hara) is a HORRIBLE mother in my opinion, what kind of mother DOESN'T want her child to go to college...especially if the child desperately wants to go?  Shaun's brother (Jack Black) is an utterly useless human being, having no purpose in life.  And finally Shaun's father (John Lithgow), he's god-awful, what kind of a father puts you down for telling him what you want to do with your life?  I'm not saying that the characters were written badly, I'm just saying they're HORRIBLE people, the kind of people I want to steer clear of in my life.  Ok...so why on earth did I like this movie?  I guess I liked it because despite all these negative people in his life, he still overcame all the obstacles and got to go to college. On top of telling a great story, it was hilarious in the process.  Jack Black definitely made the movie for me.  His comedy is so bizarre!  I also liked Colin Hanks' comedy a lot as well.  There are just certain things that Colin said that weren't necessarily that funny, but the way he said them was hilarious to me.I also liked all the cameo's in the film Ben Stiller, Kevin Kline, Chevy Chase, Garry Marshall, Harold Ramis and I should probably mention Lily Tomlin (even though I'm not a huge fan, not that she's a bad actress, I'm just not a fan).  Here's some other movie trivia for ya, Orange County was directed by Jake Kasdan, who also directed Zero Effect with Ben Stiller co-starring.  Also, Ben Stiller directed The Cable Guy with Jack Black a supporting cast member.This movie isn't for everyone, I'm not really sure where to classify this movie.  It's definitely a comedy, but I'm unsure what comedies to compare it to.  It isn't a teen movie like American Pie and it doesn't have the slapstick humor of Ace Ventura, I'm not really sure what it's like.  I think it's safe to say that if you liked what you saw in the trailers, then you'll probably like the movie.  But, I could be wrong about that.  Anyhow, I hope you liked the movie as much as I did.  Thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the most down to earth movies i have ever seen. It is one of the funniest films i have ever watched. I think this film is great, i never stopped laughing from begining to end, Jack Black has to be one of the funniest actors of today, he's brilliant. I give this movie 9/10. "},{"Title":"dumb","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A silly comedy starring Colin Hanks (son of Tom, fomerly of the TV show Roswell) and Jack Black (who is one of those actors who thinks he is so cool that he is actualy anoying).   The story is dumb and the performances are uniformaly bad, with the exception of Catherine O'Hara as the dimwitted mother who is entertaining. A misfire that does occasionaly provoke a laugh or two, but not enough to reccomend it. GRADE D+ "},{"Title":"A great start to the movie year, much better than some fools are saying","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Apparently some people just don't get this movie. Even the pro reviewers here in Chicago were wildly disagreeing (Tribune 1 1/2 stars, Ebert 3 stars but rave comments).  I saw this in a sold-out theater that went bonkers start to finish laughing, howling, and finally clapping. Not only is it funny, the acting was so solid by Hanks and Fisk that it really made me forget they were related to big stars and especially with Hanks this was one of the best portrayals of a teenager I've ever seen (and I've been around since the Hughes wave in the '80s).  This movie was also better than any Hughes movie short of Ferris and 16 Candles because it was funny while also being about something more than a prom or the big party or the big game. The situations in this film, while wildly satirized, are ones that anyone can relate to finding your place in the world, how to deal with your family in a time of change while learning to be your own person. I was also impressed with the massive list of stars in the supporting cast, believe me, they dug the script (i'm a film-biz reporter and interviewed Harold Ramis 3 months ago and he said he rarely acts anymore but couldn't turn down this script).  At any rate, I think you'd have to be deaf, blind and definitely dumb to not enjoy this movie. Can a collective 200 people in a theater laughing so hard that some followup lines couldn't even be heard, ALL be wrong? I give this a 9/10.  "},{"Title":"No big laughs, but it's worth a little more than one peek","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jake Kasdan and Mike Whites' Orange County is a feel-good, off-beat teen comedy that works at a standard level as a comedy with laughs scattered about, and yet beneath the surface lies an interesting character, and even more interesting supporting characters.  This lead character is played by Colin Hanks (son of Tom) who goes from being a carefree surfboard type in California to getting into a book written by a professor at Stanford university.  This prompts him to become a writer and achieve his goal of going to Stanford to tutor under the writer/professor (Kline in a So-so cameo that was appropriate).  Unfortunately, despite getting perfect grades he gets denied after a wrong transcript is sent, and this gets his druggie, couch sack brother (Jack Black in fine form as always) to drive him up to the campus personally.Give credit where credit is due the cast (the new ones I mean being Hanks and Fisk who is Spacek's daughter) is actually fairly decent and I can see why they were picked outside of family ties who get more than adequate backup from the other ensemble members; the script has a good storyline and you do care about the characters and all that jargen.  But, the film gets a shot of MTV juice and too idiotic at that making some parts trying to be funny when they don't need to be.  Watchable entertainment though through and through.  Between B and B- "}{"Title":"An offense to anyone who ever received financial aid","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The values system promoted in this movie is the reason why millions around the world hate us as a society.  First, the entire cast is filled with white people.  Even the requisite cop (normally a part reserved for African Americans in this type of movie) is white (Adam Sandler in a very unfunny cameo).  Second, it promotes the affluent lifestyle of Orange County as if living anywhere else is sacrifice.  Third, and most importantly, the story line is about a guy who's rich father won't buy his way into Stanford, thus making him a bad father.  Then, when the father finally capitulates, the son turns it down believing instead that living in Orange County off of daddy's money will be better for his writing career.  Fourth, this is a waste of a good cast (except for the two nepotized leads) and a promising director.Fifth and finally, this film requires us to accept the fact that people willingly want to go to Stanford, as opposed to the reality, in which Stanford is in fact a safety school for west coast snobs who couldn't get into an Ivy School.DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE IF YOU EVER HAD TO STRUGGLE TO GO TO COLLEGE VIA FINANCIAL AID OR OTHER MEANS. "},{"Title":"Surf's up, thumb's down!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Orange County is the usual stuff. Anyone over 30 has seen it all before. The film tells of a HS senior and surfer dude (Hanks) who wants desperately to go to Stanford to study writing. He, the hero, of course, plays it straight as does his girlfriend while everyone else in this formula flick is a caricature making for most of the mediocre  comic relief. The film has lots of fresh faces and lots of familiar ones as well and is lively enough to make it a reasonably enjoyable watch for teens and some terminally bored adults. "},{"Title":"New record.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie gave me the opportunity to set a new personal record, The Earliest I Have Ever Walked Out of A Movie.  It was at the 4429 mark in the movie.  This was easily the worst movie I have ever seen.  Just for reference I sat through The Big Hit, Street Fighter, every version of No Retreat, No Surrender, every version of American Kickboxer, every Jeff Speakman movie, and even Best of the Best  in the theater.   Why couldn't one of the good directors that had a cameo in this movie take over? Or re-write the script or re-cast it or better yet stop the movie all together?  To think, something good or at least mediocre could have been made with the money put into this horrible film. "},{"Title":"WHAT A CRAPPY MOVIE!!!! ITS NOT WORTH THE 4 MINS OF JACK BLACK!!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was an atrocity. I loved freddy got fingered and movies like kingpin and the big leboski , but dam does this movie suck. Its only 83 minutes and for good reason , also alot of the scenes in the trailer arent even in the movie...theres about 3 good bits in the movie all jack black. The storyline of the plot is so ridulous the guy wants to go to stanford cuz he found a book in the sand and read it and the author teaches at stanford when he tracks him down its so crappy , this was what the whole movie was leading up to...Blah ..THE MOVIE SUCKED!!! I COULD HAVE WALKED OUT OF IT!!! "},{"Title":"Orange ya glad that you saw it?","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It seems that most of the country - and maybe other places on earth -consider Orange County to be the most pathetic place imaginable, as the domain of Disneyland, the John Wayne Airport and Richard Nixon. Well, you're in for a surprise here. The movie Orange County portrays teenager Shaun Brumder (Colin Hanks). He lives well-off with his parents (John Lithgow and Catherine O'Hara) and stoner brother (Jack Black). Anyway, Shaun is trying to get into college when the guidance counselor (Lily Tomlin) sends the wrong transcript. Most of the movie has Shaun trying to fix this with some very unexpected occurrences! Overall, this is basically an excuse to be goofy, but Jack Black really carries the movie. I know that an obvious problem with the movie is the clear nepotism, as it's directed by Lawrence Kasdan's son and stars Tom Hanks's son and Sissy Spacek's daughter (as Shaun's girlfriend). But as long as we understand that, we can appreciate the movie for what it truly is pure, unadulterated fun. Also starring Chevy Chase, Garry Marshall, Harold Ramis, Ben Stiller and Kevin Kline. "},{"Title":"A Comedy With Some Good Moments","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Shaun Brumder (Colin Hanks) is a surfer, who spends most of his time on the beach with his dudes and with his girlfriend Ashley (Schuyler Fisk). His dysfunctional family is composed of a hysteric mother, Cindy Beugler (Catherine O'Hara); a handicapped stepfather, Bob Beugler (George Murdock); a stoned brother, Lance Brumder (Jack Black); and a selfish father, Bud Brumder (John Lithgow), who is married with a very young woman, who cheats him. One day, Shaun finds a book from the writer and professor Marcus Skinner (Kevin Kline) and after reading it, decides to go to Stanford to become a writer. However, the stupid clerk Charlotte Cobb (Lily Tomlin) makes a mistake with his name and forwards the record of the bad student Shane to Stanford instead of Shaun's. His application is not accepted and Shaun tries different approaches to reach his objective and study in Stanford. This comedy has some good moments and has some funny parts, especially when Jack Black's shallow character is in action. I do not know the educational system in USA, but it sounds strange to me that a donation can put a student with bad grades in a university. I am used to see in American movies, dumb athletes joining the university due to the skills in football, baseball, basketball or volley, but this is the first time that I see money buying a spot in a reputable university. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) ' Orange County &#150; Correndo Atrás do Diploma' ('Orange County &#150; Running After the Diploma') "},{"Title":"More terrible than Faking the Funk, and that was bad enough","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When it comes to comedies, I like all sorts of movies. I tend to prefer comedies that contain wit, subtle humor, and generally comical situations instead of one-liners that aren't too over the top, sometimes stuff like Royal Tenenbaums, but also Grosse Point Blank type stuff.I like classic comedies (Animal House), slapsticky stage-to-screen stuff (Noises Off), and even low brow comedies, such as Wet Hot American Summer, which was over the top, yet did a nice job satirizing the typical 80's comedy and it's absurdity.But dear God, I have no room for the utter stupidity and lameness that is Orange County.I like Jack Black, but let's face it--the guy has no middle ground. He's either in great movies and is great in them, or is in horrible movies and is horrible in them. But he didn't have much to work with in this one. His character was one of the most irritating ones I've seen on screen in a long time.The premise was stupid to begin with--a very dumb 'intelligent' guy (how's that for an oxymoron) is convinced he needs to leave home to start his life anew and make something of himself. Can't say I blame him with all the idiots in his life, either.The movie was way too absurd to be funny. For those of you who say that was the point, I like absurd comedies. I love Cannibal The Musical and Wet Hot American Summer because while both went over the top in their goofiness, both movies were clever at times, and satirical or spoofy at others, and when they were mindless, they were so hilarious that you didn't care. And a lot of their jokes were SUBTLE...and when they weren't, they were still funny.This movie satirizes or spoofs nothing well, isn't clever, and the absurd bits are so over the top and stupid that it ruins the joke. Some people need to know that subtlety can take humor farther in comedic situations than screaming and yelling, and having general chaos explode in every scene. There are limits to how over the top you can go, and movies like these insult the audiences. You can't even sit through this movie knowing it's mere entertainment and enjoy it.Every joke seemed to rival one that you'd find on the current incarnation of Saturday Night Live (which is not saying much), and it's humor generally resulted in our lead character getting buried in a frustrating situation, and chaos ensuing, whether it be the grandpa banging on the door after not getting his pills, or Jack Black's pee being served and him crawling out in his underwear. All tired, cliched attempts at humor that fall flat. If this is all it takes to make people laugh, then good lord, standards have fallen.Avoid this movie like the plague. I only went to see this movie to pass two hours until a new release came out at Virgin Megastore, but I still was p***ed after leaving the theatre that I had to sit through something THIS unfunny.  "},{"Title":"Above-Average Teen Comedy, But Not Great By Any Means...","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   Colin Hanks stars in Orange County, a teen comedy revolving around an aspiring teenaged-wannabe-writer, living in Orange County, and how he must cope with the fact that his college advisor may have ruined his chances of getting into a good college. There are many star cameos in this film, and that is perhaps one good aspect of the film. I won't ruin them, but I'll name at least Chevy Chase and John Lithgow. The film does resort to gross-out humor at times, which is quite disappointing, but it never goes below-the-belt to American Pie humor, which is at least comforting in some aspects. See the movie. You may like it.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"A rotten apple","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is terrible. It's pointless, far fetched, boring and totally dumb. The acting in it is fine but the script their all working from is cr*p and at not one point did I find myself laughing whilst watching this movie, which is a serious point to consider as it's meant to be a comedy. In fact, it appears to try and emulate other movies of this ilk i.e road trip, goofy sidekicks, and zany family members. However, none of these formulaic themes save this movie from the meandering pacing, the poor choice of score and the overall ludicrously of the plot. My advice is to stay away from this rubbish and go and rent 'Roadtrip' instead as that film is at least funny in parts. The only trip this film is heading on, however, is on a one way trip down my garbage shoot. 2/10 (1*) "},{"Title":"A great story, a great film","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the finer films I've seen in a few years,  well acted by the ensemble cast with a real positive message about realizing how much you owe to the people who surround you and the places that you come from.  A terrific, funny film with some great moments and a lot of great dialogue. It's on cable now and I've watched it every time it's on. Fantastic! "}{"Title":"Awesome dude, Awesome!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a great Story. Oh yeah, Warm summer day, the sun is shining, couple of cold ones and this excellent movie .Great and in some part hilarious movie. It's not just another teen comedy, It was something special. Believe me, you gotta check it out! What a great Story. "},{"Title":"100% brain dead after watching this movie....","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sjeezzz... where do I have to start ??First of all the lead actor ).. What a retard it is. He proves that being a son of a famous/descent actor ain't a guarantee of being a descent/good actor yourself. Mr Hanks plays Shaun Brumder, a high schooler eager to propel himself out of the land of surf bums and ranch homes to which the film's title refers. He plays his character like he is Mr Asperger himself. That with a dumb screenplay (random half-naked volleyball players ??!!) and some other garbage actors and you have ''Orange County''. The only actor who is in some parts actually funny is Jack Black. You could even state he saves the movie from being a complete fail. When I was watching this movie for about 20 minutes I started vomiting of the images in my head. The images were about me punching Hanks junior so hard in the face until his whole face was wrecked. This was the level of frustration I was in while watching this movie.My advice is to not watch this movie. Unless you want to waste 1.5 hours of your life on a movie where the main focus lays on a dumb retard who can't act and only plays in movies and series because his dads status.And if this ain't enough for you....We still have John lithgow... )I'd rather commit suicide than to watch this movie for a second time ( "},{"Title":"Horrible.  Just horrible.","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe I sat through this movie.I was praying for it to end about 20 minutes in.Predictable.  Dumb caricatures of characters that you don't like, much less care about.I wanted to like this movie.  Jack Black, Catherine O'Hara, and John Lithgow are personal favorites.But it was just so bad.  I only sat through the whole thing in the vain hope that it was setting me up for some great ending.But the revelation, epiphany, or however you want to refer to the lead character's ultimate realization was just SO not worth the wait.I am glad I only paid $1.05 for this rental.  That seems too much, though. "},{"Title":"UTTER TRASH!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the WORST movie I have ever not seen.  I ordered it on PPV last night.  Sat through 5 minutes, called the cable company and demanded credit.  Terrible acting with ridiculous cameos by good actors turns this into the WORST MOVIE OF THE YEAR.  Out of 5 stars, I rate this -5.  Do not waste your time. "},{"Title":"A waste...","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Holy Crap...This movie was horrible... Don't waste your time on this one! This was one of the worst movies I have seen. It was a waste of film and wasn't really funny. I like Jack Black's past work but this is his worst. Making this movie was such a mistake! I actually though Colin Hanks who is the son of Tom Hanks would have some common sense before thinking about starring in such a horrible move like this. "}]