[{"Title":"JUNIOR HIGH HYPERBOLE - Lighten up !","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Take it easy, folks !! This is only a MOVIE, and this one is intended to be a fanciful exaggeration from the word go. I took my 11 yo son to see it, and he had no problem understanding that.Isn't this movie supposed to be an extreme comic view of the unfair world of junior high from an underdog's point of view? Think of The Three Stooges - did anybody take their scripts to task? No, but everybody LAUGHED!Better judgment triumphs in the end in most respects, in Max Keeble's Big Move. And Max earns respect not because he's the toughest, but because his turnabout beats the bullies at their own game, and because he won't let his buddies take the rap alone.This movie, and Shrek, See Spot Run, Cats & Dogs, and Spy Kids, are some of the most enjoyable movies I have seen in the last 10 months. Not since What Women Want or The Brothers have I seen an adult movie that was near as funny as any of these kiddie movies. (Okay, add in Oh, Brother, Where Art Thou.)I only hope that overly critical attitudes aren't congenital.  "},{"Title":"Amusing for Adults","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Amusing for adults, a blast and a half for pre-puberty members of the family, Max Keeble is just good junior high fun.Resiliently taking it all in stride, Max (and friends) absorb typical 6th grader abuse the school yard bully, the angry principal, retaliatory ice cream man, and a looming move out of state. Each of these villains play rather cartoony. Larry Miller as always nails the dimwitted, egocentric, greedy, fumbling principal. (He's also very good in Princess Diaries.) Noel Fisher covers the leather jacket, wallet-chain-wearing bully role well too.The triangle of friends, in contrast to the buffoony bad guys, hang closer to the kinds of kids we know (or used to be).So when Max learns that his family will suddenly be moving to Chicago, he decides to return a few transgressions inflicted on himself and his friends. Ah, the sweet tingles of revenge (Home Alone style). I don't just have a plan ... I have a planetarium!!!And so begins a three-day extravaganza for which the bumbling bad guys are just not ready. Eventually, Max gets more than his original bargain and finds himself teetering precariously on the brink of a friendless abyss.Any kid can make a mess. It takes man to clean it up.Some somewhat stereotypical themes are peppered tastefully with carefully shot fun, good acting, and a strong sound track that accentuates the folly.I simply love the scene where the school's sexy science teacher strolls across the classroom setting each Bunsen burner a light as she passes, simply because she is perceived to be the hottest teacher in the school.Coincidentally, Alex D. Linz and Zena Grey (Max Keeble and best friend Megan) enjoyed my particular screening from the front row.As the credits rolled, they stood up and boogied to the soundtrack. A good time, take the kids.  "},{"Title":"Not A Great Movie, But Was Entertaining.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" This movie had a lot of laughs for a younger audience, and was entertaining. The young actors including Alex D. Linz and Zena Grey weren't bad. The movie wasn't boring, and kept the story moving along rather well. This movie is a good one for around eight year olds- ten year olds, or maybe eleven. I give Max Keeble's Big Move a 7 out of 10. ) "},{"Title":"Not a horrible kiddie flick, but...","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Max Keeble. Well then. Not horrible, but definitely not the best. The jokes are O.K., the cast isn't too bad (where have I seen all them before?), and the food fight was a hit. However, the little scenes between Max and Jenna weren't very good at all. Come on, what 9th grader would actually notice a 7th grader. Possible, not likely. It's a movie, though. I guess the directors can have their fun. This movie wasn't totally bad, it just needs a little more...something. 6 out of 10 for Max Keeble. "},{"Title":"Fair slapstick movie","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I took my 12-year-old son at his request to the movie.  I would have to say he enjoyed it more than I.  It is aimed at juvenile humor and while not bad it has few redeeming qualities.  As many such files the kids are very smart and clever while all the adults are totally inept.  I will say it did have a good and appropriate ending. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Max Keeble's Big Move was an excellent movie! I thought it was very funny and that even though some people cannot relate to him,it still appeals to all ages. At my movie theater when it first came out,it was really hard to get tickets. High school and middle schoolers were in line too. The movie and the school it was taken in,relate very much to my middle school here. I just don't know what else to say but that I loved it. "},{"Title":"Excellent family film","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Terrific kids film about a junior high student who gets tired of being tormented and vows to get his revenge after learning that his family is going to move away. Solid kid performances and lots of fun moments definitely make this one worth taking the kids to. GRADE A "},{"Title":"Good, fun, over the top kids' film","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I think the film has to be seen for what it is - a good, fun, over the top kids film. Don't take movies like this too seriously. If you expect anything other than this, you will most likely be disappointed. If you're expecting something reasonably suitable for adults, you will be disappointed.For those who are unaware, the film is about a boy (Max) who finds out he's moving house & uses it to take revenge on those who have bullied him. He then finds out he's not moving &, having forgotten to attend his going away party with his friends, has to make amends with everyone & still deal with the bullies.There are some good solid performances in this film, particularly from Alex Linz (Max), Zena Grey (Megan) & Larry Miller (Principal Jindraike). Even if the plot is totally unrealistic, as are most of the characters. If you just sit back, relax & enjoy it though, you'll find it's pretty good. "},{"Title":"puerile, predictable, cliche humor","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  You've seen it all before the cafeteria food fight, the stupid, egocentric adult authority figures, the boy smitten by the sexy older girl who realizes the girl who really loves him is his not-so-sexy but loyal friend of many years, the animal sanctuary threatened with destruction that the boy must save, the cruel, sadistic older boy who has it in for our hero, etc. etc. This is a predictable, totally unoriginal movie which is composed almost entirely of such cliches and sight gags. Save your money. (by the way, my kids loved it)  "},{"Title":"This Film Should Have A Big Move To the Trash.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Max Keeble's Big Move (2001) Dir Tim Hill / Cast Alex D. Lenz, Larry Miller, Zena Grey, Jamie Kennedy, Josh Peck Family film that should have made a big move into a trash bin. It stars Alex D. Linz who makes a big move in dealing with bullies at school as well as his parents making the decision to move. His father dresses up in silly costumes for an advertizing job while his mother is a perfectionist. If that is the case then perhaps she should have directed this film and re- write the screenplay. His friends include an overweight kid who eats off the ground, and a flute playing girl played by Zena Grey. Josh Peck plays another one of his moron friends. Lame plot regards the destruction of an animal shelter in favor of a football stadium. Why not the destruction of the production of this sh*t film. This leads to a stupid climax where the kids rebel. Directed by the not very good Tim Hill who made the irritating Muppets From Space. Linz is still stuck in Home Alone 3 mode. Larry Miller is typecast as a principal. Jamie Kennedy is embarrassing as the ice cream man. There is a wall street kid who carries around a brief case, and there is a bully traumatized by a frog suit. It cannot be near as traumatizing as being part of this stupid film. Theme of standing up for oneself situated with pathetic juvenile humour. It should cause viewers to make the big move to the nearest exit. Score 1 / 10 "}{"Title":"I Loved This Movie As A Kid And Now.","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" As a grown man, it is rare for me to like kid's movies and/or like the same kid's movies as much as I did before. Some of them I still like just because of the nostalgia feel--I don't think I would have liked some if I saw them for the first time today. Max Keeble's Big Move is not one of those. I think I would have loved this movie regardless of my age and intellect. This movie feature a few stars along with future stars that were still making their names. It stars Home Alone 3's Alex D Linz as the title character and a fat Josh Peck as his best friend Robe. Because I love this movie so much, I may always see Peck as a fat nerd. It also features Larry Miller, Nora Dunn, Jamie Kennedy, Zena Grey, Orlando Brown, Noel Fisher and Robert Carradine. The movie is about Max entering the 7th grade, where he must be subjected to bullies, peer pressure and an odd faculty. Max's salesman father (Carradine) gets news that he must move to Chicago and Max is shocked. But he soon sees it as an opportunity to enact revenge on all those wrong with the school. Things take a turn for the worst when the school suffers even more and Max finds out he doesn't have to move after all. Uh-oh!The first thing this has that is needed for a bully movie is the sense of realism and comedy. Max Keeble is able to find the perfect balance between these. The comedy never runs out of fuel and it is there to make everything that much better. Max's plans for revenge are so funny and genius. There's one scene where he starts a food fight to make Principal Jindrake (Miller) look bad. I would honestly say it is the best food fight ever filmed; better than Animal House, Problem Child 2 and others. There's many other scenes that make this wonderful.Max Keeble was back in the days when characters in family movies were made with such depth and like-ability. Max is a preteen who is trying to figure out the world and think he is doing well, when it really just makes everything worse for everybody. These characters give good lessons on bullying, revenge and egos. Just because he thinks he won't be there to be punished, Max let's his whole revenge scheme get to his head and thinks he's the greatest. All he did was stoop to the other bullies' level, making him the worst of them all. What happens to Max is very common. I could relate to all characters, not just Max. "},{"Title":"A family movie everyone needs to see!!","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I must say, I enjoyed this movie when I was 8, and still feel the same way right now at the age of 16. This is a movie that the whole family should see! Not only will kids and teens find it funny, adults will find it funny due to some of its adult humor. The film stars Drake & Josh's Josh Peck, Snow Day's Zena Grey, SNL's Nora Dunn, and Home Alone 3's Alex D. Linz in the title role. Again, many kids might not get some of the risqué humor, but the adults will. So, when you're having a family movie night and can't possibly think of a movie, get this one. You'll love it! This film is also very coming of age for most younger viewers, but that won't be too much of an issue with them. "},{"Title":"Alex D. Linz was the only great actor in this movie.","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Well maybe Zena Grey had some talent here but thats just about it. As usually this is the second Alex D. Linz movie that I say was only a good movie because he was in it; like Home Alone 3 and Full Court Miracle. This is a great movie but could have been better if they replaced every character except Alex Linz, Zena Grey, and maybe the principle. I find Josh Peck very annoying as I usually do; he screwed this movie up very badly; man I just hate Robe. But on the movies storyline which makes up Max Keeble goes to this animal shelter to see the animals but the principle buys the rented property and Max tries to protest but that fails when the principle takes down his posters and then Max does it his own way by sneaking into the school at night to checkout the funds for the school and put something is his mouth-spray to attract the animals; and it goes on from there between the feud between Max and the principle. "},{"Title":"Do we really have to write a summary?","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" I really liked this movie. The ending area was my favorite part, when Max holds Megan's hand, that was really nice. But how could you forget your own going away party? I would be crushed if the guy I liked stood me and my other best friend up for his own going away party. I think that the acting was good. I don't really think that bullies would charge you to go to the restroom though.... Plus, who writes their victim's name on their own shirt, wouldn't your parents say something? And I also don't think that the school would allow students to bully other students like that, it's almost impossible to hide a name on your shirt... Why was that one bully afraid of that cartoon character, what did the cartoon do to the kid? WOW this movie is really old. It's crazy. but I still liked it, I thought it was cute. But it had too much of a happy ending. The girl gets the guy, the bullies get taught a lesson, and the kid saves the school... There could of been a sequel to this, the way it got left off. Oh, I gotta get back to that movie. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" As a fourteen year old, I think this movie was decent. Some parts were cheesy, like the evil ice cream man, but that was the fun of it right? It was fun to spot actors and actresses that were in different things and put into one project. Like the principal is Paolo from Princess Diaries, Max from Full Court Miracle, Robe from Josh and Drake, The yearbook guy from Malcom in the Middle, Max's Dad from Lizzie McGuire, The secretary from That's So raven, yes i'm a Disney freak, and many many others! This kept me awake from my tired day of practice. Some parts were not as full of adventure, but it was pretty cool. It was something different, and thats what makes it unique. "},{"Title":"This movie is great!!!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I think this is a charming movie about Max Keeble (Alex D. Linz) who finds out when he comes home on the first day of school,that he's moving to another state. Meanwhile,Max forms up a plan to get back at the bullys. But going from under-dog to top dog has it's share of not only goodies,but baddies too. AND to top it off like a cherry, Max finds out that he's NOT moving after all!!!  This movie is great for the kids. "},{"Title":"what are you guys talking about?","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  First off I would like to say that this is a Disney movie. If your not catching my hint, it is for children. I think that it is a well written, light hearted and good humored movie. Stop comparing it to Braveheart!!!!!! It is intended for a younger audience.do you kids a favor and rent it, you will see it's well worth it. If it makes them happy, that means your happy, right? "},{"Title":"Okay??","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I don't understand at all the words of the first commentor. 1. As an 8th grader, I can assure you, kids my age go to the movies 2, 3, even 4 times a week. 13 year olds are a lot more advanced in the new millenium. I happen to think the story was a little dumb but the movie ended up being okay. I only watch the movie for Justin Berfield, the captions writer. I also think the previous commentator must be very old and haughty. What a loser. "},{"Title":"Overall?  Not worth your time","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  While Max Keeble has his moments (there are moments of genuinely good humor, although they are few and far between) I wouldn't recommend it to an older audience.It shows a blatant disrespect towards authority.  In one instance near the beginning of the film, Max cuts the cord of the teacher's phone and vandalizes her classroom while she is teaching.  In any other school in America this would get a child expelled.  In Max Keeble's world, he gains popularity and practically is given a medal.The Evil Ice Cream Man is just silly, and serves no purpose save dragging the plot along.I really did like Alex D. Linz though, he was a real cutie.  I fail to see, however, why he didn't go for the ninth grader.I don't know why an earlier commenter said that it should be rated higher for ages 16+.  Did they see the same movie I did?  This was a kiddie-film through and through, and there was no mention of anything sexually related and there sure as hell weren't any  sexual innuendoes to speak of.If you want a cute movie for your kids get this movie, but don't plan on sticking around while they watch it. "},{"Title":"Cool Movie!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Hi! I saw this movie and I personally think it rox! But obviously the other commenter doesn't agree. I think they have a right to their own opinion but don't let them stop you from watching the movie. The movie is funny and adventurous and I loved it. Plus, Alex D. Linz, Max Keeble, is a major hottie!!!!! =). But anyways, those who diss this movie are maybe older than me. I'm 13 and to me it was cool. If you disagree, don't force others to not watch it. If you're reading go rent Max Keeble's Big Move. "}{"Title":"Why I liked Max Keeble's Big Move","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the first time and I loved it!  I've read several negative reviews about Max Keeble's Big Move.  The only conclusion I can come to about why someone wouldn't like it, is because it is too perfect!  Anyone who didn't like it, may have been put-off by the unrealistically perfect world created in this movie.The main character, Max Keeble (played by Alex D. Linz) is a powerhouse.   He's got everything going for him.  He's got good looks and a smashing personality, two cool buds to hang out with who will do anything for him -- Robe (played by Josh Peck) and Megan (played by Zena Grey) who also really likes him.  He's got the coolest parents any kid would ever want. And he comes out the winner in everything he does.  There for a time, it does look like Max is going to lose everything his best friend Robe, Megan who really likes him, and probably his life when one of the many bullies catches up to him.  But being a good person at heart and a true man, he faces up to his friends that he has hurt and apologizes.  Then he faces up to each of the bullies, beating them at their own game, and thus becomes the school hero.Couple this fast paced story with interesting sets and costumes, impeccable lighting and sound, and Tim Hill's directing, and you end up with the perfect Saturday Matinee Movie, with a happy ending to boot!  Great fun! This movie should (and still could be) made into a weekly series.  It would be way cool, with Justin Berfield as the school newspaper editor narrating and covering all the antics of Max, Megan, and Robe; popping up just at the right time to snap pictures and to keep the plot moving.  The principal (played by Larry Miller) would have to be replaced; that's too bad because he was really funny.  And I would love to see more of Dennis Haskins.  What a winning combination they would make!Get it on DVD for the kids.  A great movie for the kid in all of us! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time.  I really enjoyed it!  The action is non stop with plenty of twists and turns; you never know what's going to happen next.  The brilliantly written story line, the outrageously funny Larry Miller (who played the principal Mr. Jindraike), and the super talented Alex D. Linz were an absolute winning combination. I laughed all the way thru the film. (I liked it as much as my kids did!)A superbly directed film by Tim Hill.  His unique style brings to life a very interesting story about three friends just starting junior high school. His fast moving telling of the story grabbed me at the beginning and held me all the way to the end, roaring with laughter.What made this a most excellent film, was the great interaction between the three main characters Max (Alex D. Linz), Megan (Zena Grey), and Robe (Josh Peck).  They blended together flawlessly.  Super, super talented actors that were just plain fun to watch!This movie reminds you that no matter what happens, friends are one of the most important qualities of life.A cool, light hearted comedy for the whole family! "},{"Title":"Every kid has his day","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Max Keeble (Alex D. Linz) is just another junior high student that is moving to Chicago? As, the movie begins Max Keeble is beginning junior high school, who holds a job as a paperboy while he has to be careful of an evil ice cream man. At his shool bullies are free to walk around the place, but when the animal shelter is getting shut down by his principal (Larry Miller), who plans to knock it down and turn into a football stadium in honor of the retiring superintendant (Clifton Davis), so he can take his place.But then Max Keeble finds out that his family is moving to Chicago. He begs his parents (Nora Dunn) & (Robert Carradine) to stay in his house. So Max Keeble turns to his best freinds Robe (Josh Peck) and Megan (Zena Grey) to get back at the bullies at the school, and even the evil ice cream man (Jaime Kennedy). (Spoiler Warning), the superintendant visits Max's school. (Spoiler Warning #2) A food fight breaks out in the lunchroom, whenm Max Keeble throws his lunch at a chess player (Marcus Toji). This movie is worth your $$$$$. 10/10     "},{"Title":"Phattitude","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This is a surprisingly entertaining little film about one kid's first week in junior high school, and his determination to start the new school year with phattitude, Alex D. Linz is extremely likeable in the role of Max Keeble, and his charm and energy carry the film.  The adult characters are overly broad, but that's all part of the fun here.  Max learns a few lessons along the way, and the overall message is a positive one.  "},{"Title":"Alex D. Linz and the rest of the cast made this movie super","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Well, there's not much to say about this movie.  I didn't get to see it in theatre's ( but I bought it the first day it was on sale (June 18) and loved diddling with all the special features, and, of course, watching the movie.  My family loved it too.  I have to recommend this movie to everyone, because it's so good. "},{"Title":"Some parts funny, but others...boring...","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This movie was not too bad i must give it that much credit, but it still lacked something more, something...more fun.  Although I must say that the character Max Keeble was very cute, it just didnt cut it.  I would recommend this movie to a younger audience, I mean I am a little older and didnt find the movie that entertaining, but it might just be its for a younger audience.  "},{"Title":"Pretty bad (slight spoiler)","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This movie was a plotless, humorous, and bad-acted film. Actors that usually don't fail like this like the principal in this case usually do good in films. However the role of the principal disappointed me. The attempts of humor in this movie are the same as Nickelodeon movies--childish (although this one doesn't seem to amuse kids very much either), unfunny and badly plotted. Take Snow Day for example. Anyone who hated that will hate this. Anyone who liked that will hate this. Come on, even Good Burger is better than this crap. The movie's script makes poor attempts at overdramatizing things and copying other movies. The food fight was a waste of food because we have all seen better movies with food fights in them (take Animal House for example. How can this movie make such a terrible remake of a classic scene, even if it wasn't intended to represent that movie). The whole movie is predictable and what really gets me mad is that the kid takes the ugly fat-lipped girl at the end instead of the hot ninth grader. That's just poor judgement. Also, concerning parents might wanna think about this one because it shows that kids get more respect and popularity when they disrespect their authorities. Not good. 3/10 (the hot girl taking all the credit of course). "},{"Title":"Brooke Smith","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I must agree with most of the negative comments. But at the same I remind you that this is simply silly stupid slapstick. As it was intended to be It is not ART and doesnt pretend to be. Also Brooke Smith as Max's object of desire is wonderful! She's a real talent waiting to be found. "},{"Title":"One of the best kid-aimed flicks in recent years","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This is not the sort of film I usually like, but by dint of my avuncular duties (I've got two young nieces and one hyperactive nephew), I ended up last weekend at Max Keeble. What impressed me was the inventiveness and quality of the movie's dialogue -- especially whenever Larry Miller was onscreen -- and the imagination the director/writers used to fill in the blanks of a fairly predictable premise (predictable, at least, to anyone over the age of fourteen). Many of the jokes went over my young charges' heads, but didn't prevent them from enjoying the slapstickier bits. They loved it, I -- much to my surprise -- loved it, and nobody felt talked down to, which in my experience is unusual in this type of movie (see the treacly Princess Diaries for contrast). Even if you don't have kids, this one holds up -- reminiscent of the old Looney Toons classics from the forties and fifties. "},{"Title":"I think its great!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  For everyone who likes humor, this is definitely the movie you wanna see! It has to be the funniest one I've ever seen. The jokes are great, Alex Linz (Max Keeble) plays this character like a charm! Best of all, the one person who is the funniest is Max's best friend, Robe. Some jokes are gross, like when Robe throws up, and others are down-right funny like when the animals at the shelter chase the Principal! This is definitely a movie you'd like and personally I loved it! "}{"Title":"Great Family Movie","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. There was a lot of action especially the food fight. I thought that the main character of the movie was very funny. Alex D Linz did a great job. I liked the way he stood up to the bullys of the movie. The movie had a good story to it that it is okay to stand up to what you believe in and that bullys will get what is coming to them. All in all, a great movie that the whole family will enjoy. I give it four stars. "},{"Title":"Desperate times call for screwy measures","Date":"19 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Max Keeble's Big Move seems like a combination of several different films and none of them worth watching. To begin with, movie titles like this perplex me. Who is Max Keeble, why is he being introduced abruptly, and why is his move film worthy? It's always a hit or miss state when you get a movie named after a character you never heard of before. But not just a movie named after an unknown character, but with a film title like this you'd expect to have some acquaintance with the title character before. It's stating he is making a big move, so you'd assume that with a prior introduction you'd have some essence to what that big move might be.Upon seeing this advertised years ago I had a thought in the back of my mind that if the film would become very successful Max Keeble would be the next character to have his very own Television show. By watching the film, that almost appears that is what they were going for. It has a Disney Channel vibe to it that's difficult to explain. It's corny, awkward in places, uninspired, and appears to be colored in with a crayon.But this isn't the film for me. While I grew up around the time of this film and tend to enjoy childhood nostalgia, take my review of Good Burger for example, I couldn't find much use for this. It's odd and out of place. It tells the journey of a tween named Max Keeble (Linz) who is entering the dreaded middle school with his friends Robe (Peck) and Megan (Grey).Max learns that his favorite animal shelter he helps out at is closing, bullies at school only grow meaner when the grade gets higher, his corrupt Principal Jindrake (Miller) is up to no good, and the ice cream man won't stop harassing children.Man, Max has a ton on his plate. And on top of that he may be moving to Chicago and he desperately wants to win the heart of a Freshman girl who is carelessly ripped from other better kids films.This is another one of those teenage films where the lead character treats middle school like the depths of hell. While I hated middle school, and it frustrated me beyond belief, I should be grateful for the fact that I didn't go through the harassment and stress that Max did. For God's sakes they don't even show the amount of homework he must get too. Fifth grade to sixth is a big jump in terms of workload, and not obligatory, over-dramatic situations.Will the target audience enjoy it? Probably so, fourth, fifth, and sixth grade to be exact. Will older kids like it? If they grew up with it, yes. Will adults like it? Pretty unlikely. Max Keeble's Big Move is truly harmless, but redundant, and at a mere eighty-six minutes it doesn't capture the big move too well as much as it captures ones chaotic, over-exaggerated journey through middle school.One last thought; I always wondered if movie characters are aware of other films. If so, I'd recommend to Max Keeble to pull a Ferris Bueller some days. These kinds of middle school pressures deserve some days off.Starring Alex D. Linz, Josh Peck, Zena Grey, Larry Miller, and Jamie Kennedy. Directed by Tim Hill. "},{"Title":"Revenge fantasy of every victim of bullies.","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Alex D. Linz plays Max Keeble, a paperboy entering Curtis Junior High School, who thinks 7th Grade is going to be a fresh start and easy entry to coolness. His mother(former Saturday Night Live member Nora Dunn) is a suddenly happy homemaker because she finally got the chance to arrange the house the way she wants it, and his father(Robert Carradine) earns a living wearing goofy costumes for advertisers. His two geeky friends are the proudly grotesque Robe played by Nickelodeon comic-relief Josh Peck, and Megan(Zena Grey), a girl with a clarinet and a crush on Max. Unfortunately, he finds the promise of a fresh start is a false promise when he and his friends are attacked by two bullies -- Troy McGinty(Noel Fisher), and Dobbs(Orlando Brown, in his second villain role). And what does Principal Elliot T. Jindraike(Larry Miller) do when Max is thrown into a mud pit and a dumpster during assembly? You guessed it, he punishes Max, rather than the kid who threw him there, just like many school faculty members do in real life. Suddenly, he finds that due to his father's job the family has to move to Chicago. At first he hates the idea, but then realizes that he can use it to take advantage of his tormentors, from McGinty to Dobbs to Jindraike, to a local ice cream vendor with a grudge against him for getting the health department on his case.This movie is quite a rarity for kid-flicks, because instead of suggesting so-called alternatives to handling bullies, it proudly advocates revenge. Not necessarily going to school with two compact machine guns and blowing away every S.O.B. at school, but revenge nevertheless. Contrary to a previous poster, not all school kids wear uniforms, bullies DO operate freely in our schools with or without the sanction of school faculty members, and some school faculty members ARE just as corrupt as Principal Jindraike, if not worse. The only way he could be MORE evil is if he were collaborating with the bullies somehow. Luckily, this is not the case -- he simply doesn't care what they do. The kids should probably be lucky there are no teachers who sexually molest them there, because Jindraike would definitely find some way to dump on them too. The only students he IS protecting are three high school football players pretending to be large Slavic foreign exchange students, as part of a plot to get a football stadium for the school on the grounds of a nearby animal shelter that Max, Megan, and Robe are trying to protect. Otherwise he's almost as bad as the colorful bullies who rule the student body. Overall, Jindraike is a complete a**hole, who's only out for himself! The REAL jock, is actually a retired football legend turned school superintendent(Clifton Davis), who's seeking to turn his job over to one of the principals. This guy actually cares more about education than Principal Jindraike, who habitually invents his own words. Even the Slavs get tired of the corruption of the school. If you're looking for a jock-bashing movie, don't look here.Of course the whole story turns upside down just before Max finds out the Keebles aren't moving to Chicago after all, and he has to save Megan & Robe from the people who kept victimizing all of them. One thing that bothers me most about this movie is that Max thinks he should take responsibility for what McGinty, Dobbs, and Jindraike do to the kids in school and the nearby animal shelter, when he really shouldn't. Another thing is that many of the deleted scenes should've been added to the original movie. Other than that, it's still relatively enjoyable. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Good!","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Max Keeble's Big Move is a funny movie for kids. I think that because of it's comedy and the features of it, it is a fantastic movie for kids! One of my favorite parts in the movie is where Max (Alex D. Linz) begins to noticed how much he actually likes Megan (Zena Gray). Another part is where Max (Alex D. Linz) gets back at all of his enemies, like the Ice Cream Man (Jamie Kennedy), Troy McGinty (Noel Fisher), The Principal Elliot T. Jindraike (Larry Miller) and Dobbs (Orlando Brown). Those parts are the most off the wall funny!! All in all I think that this movie is a good movie for kids. I love it, it is one of my favorite movies to watch!...Max Keeble's Big Move. "},{"Title":"Good, but kind of over the top","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" This movie was really funny. It is great for those kids who are just starting junior high. I just had one problem with it it was sort of over the top. Everything, the story, the characters,and even the way some of the people represented their role. Alex kind of put too much effort in showing how he was feeling, so it ended up looking like he didn't really mean what he was saying. When Max says one of his lines, they sometimes sound like a speech. Oh, and there could have been a little more romance between Max and Megan. She really liked him, so they should have done more than just talk to each other, be friends and hold hands. Sure, they're only in 6th grade, but after all, they were twelve-year-olds. Disney movies sometimes show younger kids in romance, so there should have been a little more of that in this movie, too. But the rest was great. The bullies, the principal and the food1 fight!!!!!!!!! I know anyone will like this movie. "},{"Title":"enjoyable movie","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  *there is a slight spoiler in this review*This movie was enjoyable, and it was very entertaining. It was well-written and I was laughing out loud during various humorous moments.A person here who wrote comments about the movie said that they were angry because Max ended up with his friend Meg instead of the hot ninth-grader Jenna. Well having your long-time, loyal friend as a girlfriend is far better than pairing up with someone who doesn't really care for you, no matter how physically desirable the girl is. Also the girl Jenna wasn't that good-looking anyway. I believe this movie has taught a moral regarding this, it's better to stick with your loyal friend rather than to be with somebody who hardly cares for you, no matter how hot or popular they are.  "},{"Title":"Actually a Good Movie!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Like I've done w/ most of the movies I love now, I saw the preview for this movie and thought it was a stupid movie to see. It came on STARS and I decided to give it a chance. I saw it from beginning to end and I actually liked it! Ok, so it does have that little kid environment to it, but the movie IS intended for KIDS! That's not all true, I discovered. There are a lot of jokes that little kids may not understand as well as teenagers and adults would.It teaches the kids that if you stand up to the bullies and talk w/ them they will eventually back down or they will continue to torment you, but will get hit in the face w/ the same kind of treatment later if life.Adult reviewers on this website are always bad-mouthing kids movies.What do you expect?!?!?!? The movies are supposed to be stupid! They are intended for young viewers! It wasn't the best movie in the world, but every time it comes on TV I normally try and watch some of it. 7/10  "},{"Title":"GOOD AND FUNNY","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  i enjoyed this movie at lot. i think most of that has to do with alex d linz he is a real good actor with out him this movie would have been just so-so. his charm is what really makes it great.yes it is kind of silly but let the kid in your watch it and laugh. "},{"Title":"NOT FOR ANYONE UNDER 16!","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I am absolutely ticked about the rating for this movie. This movie needed to be rated higher. I am even more shocked its a Disney production with what in contained.There are several sexual scenes that were completely UNNECESSARY!!! I will be recommending that anyone with children under 16 not watch it. This is not what we need in our society....more sexual innuendos for our children!That said, I'm with Brian Fremeau (sp?), I don't think the 16+ will like it. So that leaves who to watch it? "},{"Title":"Boring as guano","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Films like these are the reason I hate kids films.  It was too formulaic to raise even the faintest smile.  Steriotypical school, friends, bullies and situations made this a movie to avoid.  My advise to you if you have been asked to come and see this film is that you should demand that you are compensated for this waste of your valuable time. "}{"Title":"Cute and funny...","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  It is not an award winner, but it it pretty funny.  It is VERY silly (intentionally)!  Non-stop stupidity.  It seems that Disney may be making a come back.  I must warn you, there is at least one curse word, and there are many acts of violence. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time and money","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" First of all, this movie is not funny. If you are looking for a comedy, do not choose this one! The screenwriter uses old jokes that are no longer funny any more Food fight, falling down into the rubbish bin, slapping some ice cream to somebody's face...And poor villains called 'Evil ice cream man' or 'McKinty' who's afraid of a dumb frog called 'MacGoogles'. The real villain is Max Keeble. This movie is making kids dumb! And insulting Chinese Kung Fu like creating a palm called 'paperboy palm' to hit the so called 'Evil ice cream man'.Plus bad acting and disgusting crude 'humor'. The MPAA should rate this movie R Strong violence, crude humor and making us dumb. It's not a family movie, it's not even a comedy. It's nothing! You just see some kids dancing around and adding some music to it.Maybe it's musical. The worst musical show on earth! But I don't want to put shame on any genre of movies, so it's in the 'dumb genre'. I rather be bored than watching a movie like that, do not waste 86 precious minutes of your life!Thank you for your cooperation! "},{"Title":"Max Keebles big move.","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Max Keebles Big Move, is a very funny family movie, kids will enjoy along with the rest of the family, the movie is based on a boy named max ( alex linz) who is told he is moving to chicago, max really doesn't like the idea as he just started his first week at high school along with best friends megan (zena grey) and robe ( josh peck) this is supposedly his year in his town starting high school and making good friends, out of spite of moving he takes advantage of the fact that he will be in chicago after the first week of high school.So max gets revenge on all of the bully's, i wont say no-more you must watch it i have watched this over 100 times, i think i need a new copy!  "},{"Title":"This movie was just as terrible as Beethoven 3 and 4!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Disney usually makes good movies but this movie was terrible. Yes it was a good story line but the actors you used and what was up with that big frog? You could have used that same story line and made that movie great. I'm sorry but I usually don't critisize movies like this. Just I don't think that was a good movie. "},{"Title":"It was OK, but not great.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I liked it, I mean it was funny, but still Middle School is really not like that, and where would you find the time to say put Robe in that glass cage? And wouldn't Troy McGinty get in trouble too for coming into the auditorium late as well as Max?Overall I'd give it a 7/10. I mean, it wasn't THAT bad! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I think that Max Keeble's Big Move is a fun movie that young kids can enjoy. I also like it because most people can relate to tha main character.  I cannot believe that some people think that this movie is awful.  It is pretty funny and has remarkable actors and actresses.  I think that the plot is very creative.  The situations are very witty.  I am only 12 years old and some adults may think it is boring but it is definintly a funny and classy movie for pre-teens. "},{"Title":"A max of fun (tv)","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" As the last day of my 2013 summer vacation, my program was to watch Todo sobre mi madre as Penelope is the actress of my heart. But after a deep inspection of my parental DVDs, I realize that they didn't have it. Sad as never, I started to zap the TV and this kid movie picked my interest it was funny, speedy and above all, the directing was very inventive and talented. In short, it was a bit like one of my favorite show, Parker lewis but not set in high school but in elementary school instead! As I missed the beginning, I waited less than one hour (reading the Jedi making-of paperback) and I caught it for good at the Disney+1 channel.It was indeed a great movie the kids were very good as well as the adult cast. It will be interesting to discover what career they will finally built! Maybe the characters are unidimensional but at least, they pick the right people for the job the director is ridiculous, Amber is a sexy science teacher, and the terror of teens in the Shameless show is indeed the terror of the playground!The story was interesting for me as I have always liked the ones that depict school like a fantastic universe where everything can happen and where we can share experience with wonderful supportive friends. Like the above mentioned Parker Lewis, it's exactly the thing here and around this, there is really a plot everything can explode as the boy leaves town but he must finally be responsible after all! In fact, the movie deals wisely with a lot of values friendship, parenthood, school finances. But it's not heavy as things are always depicted with fun.I think that it's my 1st Tim Hill's movie but this guy should be given his chance as he really transcends his material from flat words, his camera found always the ultimate angle to tell them. Thus, the movie is dynamic, inventive, has fantastic visual and it was the perfect backup for my Penelope longing. "},{"Title":"Don't children deserve better entertainment than this?","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" A boy who thinks he is moving to another state takes revenge on all the bullies who have made his life hell, but when he finds out he's not going anywhere after all, he must face the consequences..Somewhere in the debris of this movie is a typical Disney moral about staying true to oneself and realising who your real friends are. All good intentions however, get pushed aside by the non-stop onslaught of gunge fights and slapstick comedy. This is only really funny on the first few occasions, before it gets a bit repetitive.. even to it's target audience. Also, the actors (especially the adults) try a little bit too hard to be quirky, and the end result is performances that are more irritating than appealing. As for the lead role..There are probably some kids out there who love Alex D Linz. I mean Heck, he keeps getting work. Personally I don't see the appeal.. his smart alecky attitude and loudmouth quips don't interest me at all. He is just an obnoxious punk, and you can fully understand why so many people want to pummel on him in this film. In fact, I've got an EXCELLENT idea. A sequel, where all his enemies get their own back, in a variety of violent and sadistic ways. Mostly involving rusty screwdrivers and blunt pencils. Now that really WOULD be good. Queue-round-the-block type good.. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A Pretty Decent Movie","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Max Keeble's Big Move, was actually a pretty decent movie, to my surprise.Basically, it's the whole junior high school scene. Max Keeble (Alex D. Linz) is starting junior high school, with his two best friends Megan (Zena Grey) and Robe (Josh Peck.) He has a mean principal (Larry Miller) who is very selfish and hates the animal shelter next to the school. And the shelter, by the way, is one of Max Keeble's favorite places. So, right off the back, Max doesn't like the principal. Then, he begins to fall for an eighth grader by the name of Jenna (Brooke Anne Smith.) And he acts all nervous and excited while hanging out with her. Also, he gets bullied by the school bully, Troy (Noel Fisher.) And he is also bullied by this greedy boy who demands money from everyone, Dobbs (Orlando Bloom.)Then, his parents announce that his dad's company transferred him to another state. So, Max Keeble begins to plot a revenge on all the people that were mean to him. The principal, the bully, the greedy guy, and etc.However, the parents then announce that they aren't moving. So, everyone, obviously, wants to beat him up.It's not really a surprising ending. It's very typical, but that's the endings I like. So, I definitely recommend this book. It's not the best acting, but it's still a good movie. "},{"Title":"Boy is picked on then gets revenge!","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" My kids have this movie so I figured I would sit down and watch it with them. Not bad movie. Max is a kid with a couple good friends who finds out that he's moving. He has a really bad day and decides he might as well make the best of it since he's not going to be there in a day or so. Turns out, that he din't move, and all the trouble he caused the days prior, come back to haunt him! I liked the fact that they made Max's friend be so close to him. This movie is a good family movie to sit down and watch with your kids. I'm glad I did! The characters in this were good, the directing was fair, the plot was decent. I think they should have a sequel to this telling what happened to all the characters after this story was over! "}{"Title":"One of the best!!!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  i loved Max Keebles big move enough for me to buy it so that i can watch it ova and ova and Alex D. Linz is soooo kool in it.This movie is really great and well worse seeing but some adults may not enjoy it very much becoz this is a disney kids movie.... rating10/10 "},{"Title":"One of Disneys lesser triumphs","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I recently saw this film on DVD, and I have mixed views on it. At times it is quite funny, others, it's just plain bad. Still though, it's still a good film to watch on boring days. It features a lot of camoes, the best being from Tony Hawk, the film also features parodies of Bruce Lee and a really good junkyard scene which will bring movie fans to remember. Well Worth Seeing "},{"Title":"Funny Movie-good physical comedy","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Okay folks, before I leave my comments, I want to respond to some of the criticisms this movie has receivedThis is a Disney Movie with kids as protagonists.  It requires a certain amount of willful suspension of disbelief otherwise you won't be able to enjoy the movie.  We all realize in real life1.  The students at Curtis Jr. High would have to wear uniforms (khaki/blue pants or skirts with red, white or blue golf shirts) as required by most public school districts instead of the fashionable Gap, Nike, Yerf DOg and other brand name clothes they wear in this flick.  We also know that Jenna would have been sent home to change because her midriff and cleavage were exposed.2.  Bullies like Dobbs and McGinty don't operate in front of God and everybody with the sanction of the School Faculty and Administration.  In fact, both of them would have been expelled, sent to juvenile court and possibly a youth prison for their behavior.  Someone's dad or a Coach would probably have spotted McGinty beating up a kid, came over and either whipped his butt or sent him home to his parents.  Dobbs would have been racially profiled and possibly be in juvenile hall because of his extortive behavior.  3.  Principal Jinkaid would not have had the power to spend the school budget because most budgetary decisions are made at the school district level, with resources purchased centrally and installed by district personnel at the school.  There would have been multiple audits done by the district to ensure that all resources purchased by the budget were there and any discrepancies notated.  If Jinkaid had sold off the computers and so forth to build a stadium, he would have been caught in an audit, fired and sent to jail.  Also, he would have been sued by parents for his physical and psychological abuse of the students.  Most teachers and principals are so afraid of these kinds of lawsuits that the districts avoid corporal punishment and have no-touching rules for teachers/faculty and students because of this fear.4.  Any 12 year old guy who looks like Max Keeble would take advantage of the opportunity to hook up with Jenna.  Point blank period.  They wouldn't have chosen Megan if Jenna showed interest.  Now, this being said, if they made this movie realistically, McGinty and Dobbs would have to operate off campus and out of sight, not grandstanding they way they do.  Oops, you lost the gag effect.  Jenna wouldn't be able to dress like Britney Spears on campus for the babe effect.  Ooops, lost another gag.    Everyone wearing uniforms would eliminate A LOT of product placement money in the movie budget, not to mention kill the notion of Phattitude.  Ooops!  Messed up again.The bottom line is that this movie is a piece of comic entertainment which parodies certain stereotypes, allows a bunch of kids to stick it to the bullies and the popular babes all in the name of standing up for the masses.  Kind of like Revenge of the Nerds for tweens.  The sight gags and physical comedy are very funny, and it is an enjoyable movie for the Family to watch.  Take it for what it is.  It's not meant to make some kind of statement or meant as some kind of tone poetry.  You can watch IFC for that.  Those kinds of movies have their place, but so does this one.  Lighthearted, family escapist entertainment.  It's good for what it is and that's all there is to it. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I thought this movie was absolutely hilarious.  Line's like, do you want me to give my car to the smelly goat? which is followed by a simple, goats don't drive sir, make this movie unique.  It was, in a way, very dumb to, but the stupidity of the movie just made it more enjoyable.  It's a movie that both adults, as well as kids can enjoy.  Alex Linz gave a hilarious twist to the movies with his facial expressions.  There is also a little romance.  i give this movie a 9/10. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I thought this movie was absolutely hilarious.  Line's like, do you want me to give my car to the smelly goat? which is followed by a simple, goats don't drive sir, make this movie unique.  It was, in a way, very dumb to, but the stupidity of the movie just made it more enjoyable.  It's a movie that both adults, as well as kids can enjoy.  Alex Linz gave a hilarious twist to the movies with hisfacial expressions.  There is also a little romance.  i give this movie a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Why The Big Screen?","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Is there any reason that this should not have had its premiere on the Disney Channel? It certainly has the formulas of a Disney Channel telefilm a child has to face his/her fears, usually in the form of a bully (in this case, there are several) and prove that he/she has a skill superior to the nemesis. It's low-rent therapy aimed at getting kids through adolescence, a far cry from what Uncle Walt did in his early animated classics. This is ponderous entertainment with minimal laughs, a dull gloss and performers that range from the merely insignificant (Max himself, played by Alex D. Linz) to the odorous (the truly unfunny Larry Miller).  "},{"Title":"A Blast!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  I admit I saw this film just for the heck of it with absolutely no lofty expectations in mind. Disney churns out Made for TV movies every month and they're almost always unbearable to watch. Max Keeble's Big Move , however, is a much different case. The movie starts with a Kung Fu dream sequence that illustrates some of the idiosyncrisies of Max's life. While the supporting characters of this film are flat their quirks that make them stand out are memorable and hysterical. There is much humor probably intended for a slightly older audience that might see the movie which makes it even more enjoyable. There are many improbably situations but it's all very well done and the acting is excellent. Nora Dunn as a neurotic housewife, David Carradine as a spineless employee, The Dobbs character and his new school bullying and McGinty with his fear of a children's series characters. The dialogue is snappy and funny and the physical comedy is at times even better. The plot is very simple but done as such that you don't stop laughing the whole way though it's undoubtedly one of the funniest comedies of the past two years. Larry Miller as the principal was hysterical and just cynical enough to even through some satire in (through the situations in which he was involved) if you think hard enough. This film is mostly about a good time. Alex Linz does come off as an average kid who take a bit of a power trip realizing there's nothing to lose and he is likeable the whole way through. It might be his first good step toward a blossoming career. This film also possesses the rare quality that really good movies have the emotional high point and low point are next to each other (Not the climax and denouement this is a purely visceral observation and it's only my opinion) Anyway, Max Keeble's Big Move is a really wonderful surprise and in short a blast. "},{"Title":"Kids might enjoy it, but parents might be flabbergasted","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Max Keeble's Big Move is meant to be stupid 8-12 year old fun, and I suppose on that level kids can go see it and have fun, but for some of them, and all of the people older than the target audience, will definitely get impatient with this movie which gives junior high schoolers more credit than they're worth. For instance, there is a part when Max Keeble has to put up with the school bully who was once his friend, but now is a doofus who doesn't get higher than a D-, but then how can he so cleverly find ways to humiliate him (and even Max, who might be given too much smarts in the movie, is smart enough to strike back later on)? I guess I'm just not cut out for these movies anymore, but it still might puzzle some of the junior high schoolers who aren't nearly as wise as the ones depicted here (it will puzzle all the adults though I bet).One note though Larry Miller is one of the only reasons to take a quick 5 minute peek at the movie to see him act sort of funny, in a Larry Miller way. "},{"Title":"Oh my god I cannot believe I am writing a review for this loonie bin of a movie","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" If I could give this movie a -10, then -10 it would be. I was dumb enough (at the age of 10) to rent this movie from a video rental, only to discover that several years later, guess what movie wins? Cool As Ice.Now, if you read my other reviews,you know I can put up with some Bad movies. I've seen Good Burger, Juno, Home Alone 4, Air Buddies, and Cabin Boy, but this one is worse than all of those COMBINED. You can tell this movie is gonna be bad just by the front cover. Half - Jap looking kid has carved words in his chest (supposedly using a knife) while standing in front of the most bland looking girl in the world and a seemingly anorexic fat kid who bears a frightening resemblance to Josh from Drake And Josh. Oh, wait! That is him!The movie is even worse. Some retard kid is picked on my an ever bigger retard who's afraid of a frog that looks like it's from The Kid A Littles. Later on, he sneaks into the junkyard and pours ice cream all over some french guy and Cuba Gooding Jr. Do I need to say more?Anyways, this movie is just BAD BAD BAD. If you want a good bad movie that's actually OK in some parts, rent Good Burger. I mean, come on. It's Keenan and Kel, who can go wrong? "},{"Title":"Umm, it was ok.","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  First of all, I just want to point out that this movie is for kids younger than 12 probably. So you can't expect adults to love it. I wanted to watch it in the theaters, but i missed it and 2 years later, I rented it. I thought that the story line was really cute, but not very well acted. Of the main characters, Alex Linz (Max) was the only one that gave a good performance, the others sounded kind of fake.  I didn't really like his friends, Megan and Robe. One of my favorite things about the movie was that they brought Adam Lamberg in, if only for a few seconds. Orlando Brown gave a great performance as a greedy, money snatching bully. I wouldn't watch it again probably, but I would recommend it to kids under the age of twelve. "}{"Title":"Dumbing down a 7th grade audience","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Who is supposed to enjoy this movie?  Kids under 12?  There's nothing fun for them except the inevitable and overwrought food-fight.  Teens?  Forget about it -- too lame.  So how about the pre-teens, 7th and 8th graders who are peers of the main characters?  Well, first of all, do they even go to the movies?  They certainly don't want to drag their parents to this one, and parents everywhere will be relieved.  This movie stunk.  The jokes fall flat on their face, the evil ice-cream man is just plain dumb, the story is a jumbled mess, the 9th grade dream girls look like they're in their 20's, 'Lil Romeo's 'lil cameo is silly, and alas, Max Keeble just isn't cute enough.  This movie needs a serious rewrite to take advantage of potentially fun characters like the principal and Max's gross-out slob best friend Robe. And dump the director who looks like he was in an MTV editing contest for most overdone style.  It's remotely possible that this film will find an audience -- maybe I'm just out of touch with the kids these days.  But it would be pretty exciting to actually assume a 7th grade audience is wise and make something cool, clever and entertaining instead of this slop. "},{"Title":"A shallow attempt at documenting the harsh realities of middle school.","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Anyone who's been to middle school will be able to tell you that it's no piece of cake. The basic idea of KEEBLE was to show everyone's dream of actually getting revenge on all the obstacles of middle school, and that's actually a premise that can be done well, if it has a good writer. Unfortunately, the film had to be done by Disney, which means that the possibilities are at a limit, and that anyone who enjoys it the most will be little kids who think they know what middle school is like. Any elementary schooler who watches this movie will think they've got middle school planned out, but in a few years, they'll find that they had it all wrong.Max Keeble is supposed to be your typical unpopular kid, who after finding out that he'll be moving in a week, decides to live his remaining time at middle school to the fullest. And to do that, Max is going to get sweet revenge. Now we all know that revenge is sweet, but not when it could get you expelled from school, or even arrested. Several of Max's revenge plots should leave him in prison, and since Disney would never let that happen, Max gets away with everything. In a very embarrassing eighty-six minutes, we are exposed to Max ensuing chaos in his classroom, breaking into the school at night, and joyriding on a bulldozer.Another major problem with MAX KEEBLE'S BIG MOVE is its large amount of unrealistic characters. Troy McGinty, the school bully, gets away with harassing a student everyday. He even admits that he beats up kids to the school guidance counselor, and yet she does nothing. Dobbs, the school's money-maker (umm, what?) gets away with stealing money from kids. So it's bad if money is stolen at a bank, but no big deal if it's done at a middle school? That makes sense. Principal Jindraike and the Evil Ice Cream Man are both supposed to be mean, but we see them being so cruel that they really should be spending time.My least favorite part of the movie would have to be the fact that the Keebles find out they're moving a week before it happens. This would never happen, as it's not that easy to find a home quickly. Even worse is that we hardly ever see them packing. Yeah, I may over analyze some things, but that is no reason for an error that large to be overlooked. This comedy hardly has any laughs in it, and when I found myself laughing, it was usually at how ridiculous some scenes were. Basically, the only thing this movie has going for it are some good actors. KEEBLE does not deserve any special treatment for being a kids' movie. That's no excuse. "},{"Title":"When Disney went wrong","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Max Keeble's Big Move is one of the worst live action films that the Walt Disney Company has produced. It's truly sad to watch talented actors like Alex D. Linz, Jaime Kennedy, and Larry Miller in an awful comedy aimed at young kids and teens. But this film was made during the dark times at Disney when Michael Eisner took complete control of the company after Jeffrey Katzenberg left the studio in late 1994. I'll go through this in further detail.In the 1990's Michael Eisner became the chairman of the company in 1994 after Katzenberg co founded Dreamworks and began to work on other projects like Shrek, The Prince of Egypt and so on. Katzenberg understood the creativity and imagination for which the company stood for. Eisner had the technical know- how but not the genius of picking the right properties and targeting his audience that Jeffrey Katzenberg did. Instead he would follow a What would Jeffery Katzenberg do? policy. Most of them turned out negative. Whereas Katzenberg's films were more creative and were something that people of all ages could enjoy. Funny how the movies that were the most successful around Eisner's time were The Emperor's New Groove, Brother Bear, Home on the Range, Lilo and Stitch, Chicken Little and this film.Just to watch Larry Miller (The Nutty Professor) as a an evil school principal and Jaime Kennedy as the evil ice cream man is one of the worst roles these two talented actors were forced to do. There are a lot food fight sequences, crude humour involving school kids, and an odd subplot involving Alex D. Linz having a crush on an older girl in Grade nine. Will kids buy into it? I confess, I really don't know. But when this came out when I was nine or ten and I thought it was dumb and I still do. Shame on Disney and Michael Eisner!!! "},{"Title":"What the...","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" What was Disney thinking. This is pathetic. Alex D. Linz has talent that he's waisting on a piece of garbage like this. Jamie Kennedy ruined his reputation as a comedian in this movie by playing an evil ice cream man. What is Disney doing with their movies for kids. Are they trying to say that, much like in the movie, school isn't a safe place to be; that the teachers are complete morons and that they can't identify bullies when they strike others? Why does Disney keep making all of these lousy live-action kiddie movies that only teach kids that they can do anything a full grown, mature teenager can do? The only live movie that Disney ever made that was worth watching, (for older kids, though), was Pirates of the Caribbean, which came out two years later after this movie. "},{"Title":"Noisy and colourful kids film that I found mild and undemanding fun","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" On his first day at junior high, Max is feeling good about his new life. However reality is much different and he finds himself bullied by staff and pupils alike and not quite making the popularity splash he had hoped. McGinty and Dobbs bully in their own style to good effect and crooked and ambitious headmaster Jindraike would happily punish any child if it got him closer to the Superintendent job. Max gets more bad news later that week when he learns that his family are going to move to Chicago on Friday. Annoyed but accepting his fate, Max decides to take revenge on the staff and bullies &#150; safe in the knowledge that he'll be long gone before being punished.Although it is rather unrelentingly in your face and energetic, I actually quite enjoyed this movie because it was consistently amusing albeit in a way that is aimed at young teenagers. The plot is obvious and is a nice if busy frame for several plot lines smashing together in a colourful load of noise. It lacks sophistication and subtlety (evident in some spoofs that are hammered home when a softer touch would have been just as effective and better for it). However it does have a certain imaginative charm to it and it moves quickly with plenty of subversive touches. Yes at times it feels like a poor man's copy of Malcolm in the Middle style humour with Scrubs etc but it still worked and I surprised myself by finding it distracting and entertaining.The cast all get into it which really helps. Linz avoids being an annoying cute kid; yes he is a bit irritating but mostly his performance is good and he is likable and easy to watch. Miller has an obvious character and obvious material but delivers it really well and makes the most out of it. Kennedy is a strange find but sadly his character is one of the weaker because it is so very one-note and has little scope for humour other than sneering in a comic way. Grey and Pack are nice in support but I specifically enjoyed the turns from the two guys playing the main bullies &#150; their characters were cool and they were good.Overall, an enjoyable kids film that is filled with noise and energy. It isn't original and it isn't hilarious but it has a good streak of humour across it and I found myself easily distracted by it and, although I'd not coming running back for a second viewing, it was a fun and undemanding watch. "},{"Title":"instant classic","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  what can i say. this is hands down the greatest movie ever made. In fact, this movie is so sweet that i'm going to crap myself. The plot is ingenious A young and troubled boy Constantly made the subject of humiliation by other children, does not know where to go or who too turn to. But then, suddenly is given the joyous news that he will be moving, and going to a new school. The ingenious performance of the bully by barry tabatchnick is incredible. His uncomprimising shananigans played on young max are unbelievable. In all i give this event in cinematic excellence a 17.5 out of 17.56.  "},{"Title":"The funniest kids movie ever!!!!!","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":" Some books were scattered around on my floor. I picked them up one by one. I placed the books in the backpack which I use to store my books. My knee had a slight itch. I reached out my hand and scratched the knee in question. The itch was relieved and I was able to continue with my activities. There was an empty chair on my classroom table. Using my hand I picked up the chair from its place. Having considered my options for a moment I placed the on the floor so that I can sit down at my table.I was walking down the hall. I turned my attention towards my pals for a few moments. Having done this for several seconds I turned away from it and carried on entering the next class. I was sitting down on one of the chairs in my next class. My hand was resting on the desk. I started to pay attention and get another A, as usual. The bell rang after 50 minutes of class. I decided that I didn't need to learn English class any longer (at least for the day). I got up out of my seat, scooted my chair in, said good-bye to the teacher, and went off for lunch.I was in the cafeteria carrying out some routine activities. I began to consider conversing with my lunch buddies. I thought about it for a minute, but decided not to. I discovered a piece of dorito on the floor. I carried the item away from everyone else and held it above the trash can. I opened my hand, thereby allowing the chip to fall into the can. I opened a door by pulling it towards me. When done, I let the door go, thus closing it, and finishing the rest of the school day.Max Keeble's Big Move is a humorous, yet attentive look into the everyday world of an average school day. It is needed for those who need a good laugh. Best of all, no bad stuff like what would happen the year after. A true classic, 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Oh Please","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  This looks like Snow Day mixed with Matilda. This movie is way dumb. Worse than Home Alone 3. This movie has bad acting and the plot sucks. What a waste of film and bad use for perfectly good box office space. No sequel! 2/10 "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Family","Review":"  Max Keeble's Big Move was very clever.  Every scene was funny.  Kids of all ages would enjoy this movie.  Larry Miller Does a great job as the Princible.  The movie theater was packed when I went.  It is a movie that parents can also enjoy.  I strongly recommend Max Keeble's Big Move. "}]