[{"Title":"From punk to rave in northern England - a pulsating, highly original, thoroughly entertaining mess of a film.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"65 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  24 Hour Party People is the story of Factory Records, a defiantly eccentric independent record label based in Manchester, England, which discovered acts as influential and diverse as Joy Division and the Happy Mondays.The film is shot in mock-documentary style and narrated by Tony Wilson (Steve Coogan), the founder of Factory. Coogan portrays Wilson's double life as music svengali and cheesy local TV reporter to brilliant comic effect. Although Brits will draw the inevitable parallels between Coogan's Wilson and his ultra-naff TV persona, Alan Partridge, Coogan actually has Wilson off to a tee. Arrogant and pompous, Cambridge-educated Wilson is master of the  pseudish sound bite (when he realises they have no tickets for a concert in his nightclub, he retorts `Did they have tickets for the Sermon on the Mount? Of course they didn't, people just turned up because they knew it would be a great gig'). But he also has a perceptive eye for the zeitgeist and his vision to create the Hacienda club transformed Manchester into Madchester, for a brief time the music capital of the world.The story really starts with an early Sex Pistols gig in Manchester, attended by only 42 people, most of whom went on to have an influence on the Manchester music scene of the next 10 years. Wilson was in the audience, together with members of the band who went on to form the brilliant post-punk pioneers Joy Division. The first part of the film is really focussed on them and their manager, the aggressive and cantankerous Rob Gretton ( played by Paddy Considine), and their producer, the irascible acid-casualty Martin Hannett (another superb cameo by Andy Serkis) - both of whom are no longer alive. Joy Division's lead singer, Ian Curtis,  is portrayed so accurately by Sean Harris that it's positively eerie, and the scenes of the band playing in rundown venues seem remarkably true to life and capture effectively the rawness and intensity of their live performances. The film also deals, rather insensitively, with the death of Curtis, who's feet we see swinging after he has strung himself up on a rope in his house. This segues uncomfortably into a town crier announcing his death to the world, and ends with scenes showing Curtis's body in a coffin at the crematorium.From then on, the story continues with Joy Division's reincarnation as New Order and the building of the Hacienda nightclub, and the sometimes disastrous business decisions made by Wilson and Factory. When New Order released Blue Monday, the record sleeve was so expensive to produce they lost money on every copy sold. The single went on to become the biggest-selling 12' of all time, paradoxically crippling Factory in the process. The first nights at the Hacienda were also calamitous, with bands playing in front of single-figure audiences. Eventually however, the druggy indie dance kings Happy Mondays arrived on the scene, and acid house was born. Suddenly the Hacienda was the place to be and the Madchester rave scene became famous all over the world. The scenes of drugs-and-sex-excess on the Monday's tour bus and the re-creation of the Hacienda club nights are superbly portrayed.The final part of the film tells how gang violence led to the closure of the club and the drug-riddled misadventures of the Mondays, especially their singer Shaun Ryder, led to their downfall and had severe financial implications for Factory Records (Wilson had inexplicably sent them to Barbados to record their last Factory album).  Eventually, Factory was sold, lock, stock and barrel, to another label (who were  perturbed to find Wilson had not signed any contracts with any of the Factory bands, effectively giving the artists total creative freedom).24 Hour Party People is a real rollercoaster ride. There are some brilliant acting performances, punctuated by cameos from real members of the Manchester music scene (such as Howard Devoto and Mark E. Smith). The merging of legend and reality may make it difficult for people unfamiliar with events to work out what actually happened. But this is no accurate, austere documentary, but a touching, sometimes surreal, and often very, very funny, anarchic portrayal of a time and a place and it's music. Oh, and of course, the soundtrack is fantastic.  "},{"Title":"Worth multiple viewings and a little homework","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"57 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I get the general sense from reading some of the reviews that people didn't like this movie because it didn't provide any instant gratification or personal meaning. That's probably true for people who don't know Joy Division, New Order, or the Happy Mondays, but I think it's totally unfair to discredit this film on a basis of a lack of prior knowledge. Many great films and novels aren't great because you get them on the first try, and I think that this movie follows the same path. If you didn't like it the first time, take a look at an old Tony Wilson interview or a concert tape of Joy Division and you will instantly see the quality production and acting that went into this film. Ian Curtis/Joy Division are portrayed with an eerily haunting accuracy (down to the instruments they play, which are rumoured to be the originals from the late 1970s)  and you can tell that the cast really did their homework. The concert scenes are spectacularly energetic, the sets (especially the Hacienda) are ripped right out of the time period. Comic relief isn't overlooked, as the dry humour of Steve Coogan and the rest of the cast  is pursued to the dime. The unscripted dialogue is also quite good, which is another indication of the actors' homework. This movie is worth the time it details a very important time and place in pop music history that is often overlooked in the wake of much larger, more commercialized scenes. Rave and post-punk may be fading today, but one need only take a look at the charts to see its influence. Go out and get this movie, learn a little about it, and you will be impressed. "},{"Title":"A charmingly British film that is both funny and facinating","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"42 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Alternative music is a passion of mine, so when I heard that there was film being made about factory records/'madchester', I was looking foward to seeing it. I wasn't disapointed. The script is very witty, the soundtrack is brilliant (Buzzcocks, A Certain Ratio, Sex Pistols, Joy Division, New Order, Happy Mondays, I could go on....), it probably isn't 100% true to what actually happened, but that doesn't matter that much, after all, 24 Hour Party People is only a film. It also brings you into the lives of those there, and also heavily explores not only the music, but the scene too, which is very important because it essentially spawned the rave music of today. A fun filled way to spend a couple of hours.  Highly recomended. "},{"Title":"Two words Fookin' Brellyint!","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is, was and forever will be one of my favourite films of all time.  A joyous love letter to the music, magic and madmen of Manchester, 24 Hour Party People is utterly, utterly exhilarating.  Even if you don't know your New Order from your Durutti Column, you'll be hard-pressed not to get a kick out of Michael Winterbottom and Frank Cottrel Boyce's freewheeling depiction of a great time in pop culture.In a nutshell, this is the story of a scene, a scene that grew out of the british punk explosion of the mid seventies.  Inspired by the rising vibe in his home town, television presenter Tony Wilson, with the aid of colleagues Rob Gretton and Alan Erasmus created Factory Records.  Factory is, as described in the film an experiment in human nature, with no written contracts (barring one written on a napkin in Wilson's own blood) and total creative freedom for its acts.  From the mid seventies to the early nineties, Factory launched a barrage of fresh and exciting talent on an unsuspecting world, ranging from punk (Joy Division, later to become New Order) to house (A Guy Called Gerald) and dance (Happy Mondays).  At the centre of it all was Wilson, all the while balancing his empire building with a steady day job with Granada Television.  Winterbottom's film crams sixteen years of music history into under two hours, using and appropriately chaotic mix of storytelling techniques to rocket the story along.  It's by no means an accurate account, (just listen to the commentary by Wilson on the DVD) but encapsulates the spirit of the Manchester Movement beautifully.  The plot itself is split into two halves.  Firstly, the early punk days, spearheaded by a promising quartet called Joy Division.   Joy Division were the first notable artistic success of the label, but were hindered by controversy (the name was derived from the Nazi division of women who were used in an attempt to create the master race), gigs that often degenerated into brawls and most crucially, a talented, but troubled, severely epileptic lead singer, one Ian Curtis.  The rapid rise and even faster fall of Joy Division anchors the first half.The second half sees us bear witness to the birth of rave culture, aided along by one of Wilson's acts, the Happy Mondays.  Formed by brothers Shaun and Paul Ryder, they blazed through Manchester in a blizzard of coke and heroin and shaped dance music in no small way.  Oh, and they pretty much helped to run Factory into the ground.Bouncing from hilarious comedy (a great deal of it improvised)to genuine poignancy (the decline of Curtis is heartbreaking stuff) the film is an utter triumph of wit, wonderment and technique.  As Wilson, comedian Steve Coogan is nothing short of dynamic.  Teetering on the right side caricature (and injecting a great deal of his Alan Partridge persona in to the mix) Coogan is the lynchpin for an otherwise wildly chaotic narrative.  The entire cast do sterling work impersonating the Manchester luminaries of old (and by old, I mean young, before the drugs and booze).  From Danny Cunningham's uninhibited Shaun Ryder to John Simm's gentle Bernard Sumner and Andy Serkis's fearsome Martin Hannet, (an arguably more fearsome character than Gollum if you ask me....) they're all great.  But best of all is Sean Harris, who is simply unforgettable as Ian Curtis.  He's so dead-on accurate its almost scary, from the haunted eyes and cheeky humor (witness his first meeting with Wilson) to the eccentric dance moves, its a performance that deserves every award in the book.Oh and the music.  Well if you're already a fan, I sure as hell don't need to say it, do I?  As it was, so it goes and so do I.  See this movie before you die.  Go on, rent it tonight, rent it now, buy it if you have to or if you're really desperate, just steal a copy.  But please, see this movie, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Terrific music bio with award-worthy acting by Steve Coogan","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ignore the awful ads for 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLE (which are bollocks!), and run out and see the film while it is out in limited release. Anybody with an interest in Alternative Music in general, and the British Punk/New Wave & Rave scenes should see this examination of the past 25 years of British rock as filtered through the eyes of Factory Records' Tony Wilson.Perhaps a bit too inside for general audiences, it is a rare example of a music based film that its actually good cinema to go along with it's raucous soundtrack. Well done, wry and entertaining. My only quibbles are that the filmmakers seem to be preaching to the converted. Except for the tragic Ian Curtis (JOY DIVISION), little attempt is made to inform the uninitiated as to why these bands mattered (NEW ORDER in particular, is just tossed around almost as a brand name, rather than a living breathing artistic unit). Also, we are constantly told how wonderful Manchester is as a city, but we are never really shown why. Steve Coogan's portrayal of Wilson really makes the film flow and live. It's not the kind of role that usually wins awards, but here's hoping some critics group somewhere notices. He's that fine. "},{"Title":"Nicely done!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like any other movie about rock music, documentary or not, '24 Hour Party People' packs its fair share of inside material and self-indulgent frivolity.Due to a crammed timeframe of 20 years (essentially one big juggling act of people, bands and events) connecting all the dots required multiple viewings, even if I had certain prior knowledge of the Manchester music scene in the late '70s, '80s and the early '90s. Making matters still more difficult is the variety of extremely thick accents - to a point of entire sections of dialogue or monologue occasionally flying by with only a single word or two actually registering with me. While it added to film's authenticity, that got to be more than a bit annoying after a while. Where's that closed captioned TV set when you desperately need it?As far as the treatment of the subjects themselves goes, the movie does an adequate job. I mean, when it gets right down to it, the only structure such a film can more-or-less follow is the basic listing of a series of real events (and in this particular case most of them already well documented). Naturally, as such it doesn't allow for a whole lot of substantial artistic freedom so the director employs many little asides, winks and nudges by our narrator Tony Wilson (often through the 'fourth wall') as well as visual tricks and, obviously, music to make this different from, say, something you might see on VH1's 'Behind the Music'. In addition to being one of the major driving forces behind the whole scene, Tony also held a full-time job at Granada TV all throughout this period, which the movie uses skillfully for comic relief.Predictably (not that I'm complaining), things like Ian Curtis' suicide, the opening of the Haçienda club, ascent and demise of Factory Records, Shaun Ryder's famously out-of-control & self destructive shenanigans, all receive special treatment. Through Steve Coogan's excellent performance, Tony Wilson, our guide through this zoo, comes off as a pretty fascinating fellow. Director Michael Winterbottom makes a wise choice in leaving out many details from his private life in favour of the music itself and the people who created it. Wilson's second wife and kids, for example, are barely mentioned - with a cheeky remark about Tony being a minor character in his own life story as an explanation for the lack of on-screen time devoted to them.In the end, whether or not you enjoy '24 Hour Party People' will largely, if not entirely, depend on your level of familiarity or appreciation of the bands like Joy Division, New Order, The Happy Mondays and to a lesser extent of their punk inspirations and predecessors like The Stranglers, The Jam, Buzzcocks, Sex Pistols, Iggy Pop, Siouxsie and the Banshees, who are also depicted in the film.Personally, even though I was always aware of the British new wave, most of its music & 'shtick' pretty much slipped under my radar so I recently started discovering it retroactively. Therefore, it was a blast to see a well-done, interesting film celebrating that era in popular music. These blokes created & performed honest, full-blooded, passionate tunes, which is the single most important thing that comes through the movie.P.S The Smiths, another famous and influential Manchester band are notably absent from much of the film. This is probably due to the fact that back in 1983 both Tony and New Order producer/manager Rob Gretton agreed their demo was crap, so instead to Factory they went to Rough Trade Records based in London. They're mentioned briefly at the end, though, when Tony speaks to God himself who among other things tells him it's a pity you didn't sign The Smiths. ) Brilliant! "},{"Title":"great mocku-docu-rockumentary","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is quite hyperbolic about the Manchester scene which is portrayed with so much style, energy, humor, and gutty performances, that even if you weren't a fan of Joy Division & Happy Mondays, this particular musical revolution is extolled on a par with Memphis early 50's, the whole of UK 1963-65, San Francisco 1966-67, or Austin 1972-74. I wasn't a fan of those Manchester bands, but I really enjoyed all of the music in this film. And Steve Coogan's performance and the structure of his charismatic part are wonderful. And very funny.Like SLC Punk and movies like Rude Boy and the Sex Pistols movies, 24 Hour Party People captures the anger of the times and incredible energy of that socio-musical upheaval, and ultimately the sadness at the inevitable passing of a bright moment in popmusic history. When Coogan/Wilson brags about the birth of the rave culture in his club in his beloved city, taking credit for another major movement, I didn't feel his pride or excitement, only that sense of sadness at the techno-evolution of punk... "},{"Title":"Modern British film-making at its best","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Previous reviewers of this film obviously just don't get it. This is unlike recent Brit stinkers like Rancid Aluminium, Down Time, or Fanny and Elvis. This is more in the tradition of Withnail and I, Trainspotting, Lock Stock, 28 Days Later, and Dog Soldiers.The history of Factory records is chaotic and episodic. This is reflected superbly in the film. The characterisations are brilliant; from Steve Coogan's portrayal of the complex Anthony H. Wilson to minor characters such as Dave Gorman's John the Postman. If you were there at the time, it all comes flooding back... if you weren't then just sit back and enjoy the portrayal of a unique time in British popular culture...MANCHESTER 1976-1992 "},{"Title":"how did I miss seeing this movie till now?","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 24 Hour Party People is just one of those movies that has that click with the subject matter. The actual style of the film corresponds with the music, the irreverence, and the energy of it all. But there's more than just the unconventionality of the script and direction; the film has that sort of stream-of-thought, wry, distinct British humor to it, and a sincerity beneath the absurdist parts. It follows its main character down the line, in a surreal way like a documentary, if that makes sense- we move between Tony Wilson addressing the audience (played by Steve Coogan, who is so on target with the honesty of the portrayal you can't picture anyone else in the role), an almost behind-the-scenes filming of it (I think), and a dramatization shot on pure digital, independent vibes.Wilson, who sees the Sex Pistols play in Manchester (his hometown, and the main base and heart in the location of this film), is also a journalist on television. He gets so enamored with what he sees as an extremely important part of history (the viewer will get a good idea of this), he gets involved with the bands, the locals, and goes from just bands, to maintaining the Hacienda, a club. Some parts of the film one might expect, if considering it includes the rise and fall of fame (or rather, in this film, a lot of times in the mind), and the drug scene coinciding with the music. One knows that Tony Wilson is the main character, the protagonist, basically in every scene, but somehow he does not become the only important part of the film's success. The music too is a huge factor, and the speed it sets for a movie like this.As much biography as musical, 24 Hour Party People brings to light the scene of Manchester as a history lesson, but an entertaining one to boot. Bands like New Order (the form after Joy Division split) will be known to most who follow music, but unless if you're not really steeped in the new-wave/dance scene of the 80's and 90's, some of the bands may sound totally unfamiliar. Still, this is not an automatic deterrent- the music is what it is, and most who will want to see the film will know what they're getting (in truth, the ratio of British punk and new-wave vs. electronica is fairly balanced). But even when some of the music doesn't stand the test of time, it serves the story all the same (some of the more interesting and darkly funny scenes are when no one comes to the club the sort of 'mix-way' between the two musical eras).And all through this, Coogan plays it like a pro. The Coogan Wilson, of course, is far from the real Tony Wilson (one of the DVD interviews says he's a 'Jerry Springer'-looking type), so it becomes more of being a character in this whole environment that springs up around and by him. In a way he's kind of like a British Andy Warhol with the idealistic, serious journalist instead of the painter/filmmaker. There's a sort of checked insanity that underlays some of his performance, and yet for most of the time, like a lot of the better British actors, he doesn't play it more for laughs than he needs, and when serious drama/tragedy comes up it's still kept to this reality. So, along with him, and the music, and the strange form of putting together a dramatized, documentary/musical/black comedy by director Michael Winterbottom and writer Frank Cottrell Boyce, it all gels. This is one of the finest sleepers I've seen in a while. "},{"Title":"Off his Face and Off his Head!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the wonderful world of Wilson. Tony Wilson, that is. Tony is a Cambridge graduate, a fed up local TV reporter, the genius founder of the Hacienda Club and Factory Records, and of course - as key players in this movie constantly point out to him - a complete and utter c**t.Worried that Joy Division is a bad name for a band, given its Nazi associations? Tony will wave you away with a cry of haven't you ever heard of semiotics? Does post-modernism mean nothing to you?. Keen to get a record contract but anxious not to sell your soul to some pop Svengali? Tony will cut his hand and write out a walk away, anytime guarantee in his own blood. Fancy an all night rave with the Happy Mondays? Tony will splash out two thirds of a million quid on a truly cool new club, where the bar never makes any money because everyone is E'd up to their ears and only the dealers are cashing in. Want a free trip to Barbados, to party on while you should be cutting a record? Tony's company will fly you there first class, and won't even notice that you haven't recorded any lyrics until they plonk the final DAT tape on the hi-fi system back at company HQ (where the ludicrous designer table costs £30,000, a typical Wilson excess that provokes a fellow director to violence during a board meeting).Meanwhile, Tony keeps up the day job as a reporter for Granada TV. Tony brings us the duck that herds sheep, the town crier who belts out the news of the suicide of Ian Curtis, Joy Division's lead singer, with a look of blank incomprehension, and of course the old git who used to work on Manchester ship canal in the days of Queen Victoria but can't remember anything about it.Just as well, really, despite his despairing cries to his producer of I'm a Cambridge English graduate! and Of course I take myself seriously! Just as well because Factory Records, the Hacienda Club and the whole Wilson empire is built on air, and inevitably implodes leaving nothing behind but some bad hangovers and even worse debts.But Wilson achieves his apotheosis, and we see that behind the convincing facade of c**t there is something admirable. When offered £5 million for the whole operation by some greasy London record company he points out that the entire record of his business is the orginal non-contract, written in his own blood and now framed above the opulent company table. I avoided selling out, he explains, by the simple expedient of never acquiring anything worth selling.Wilson is played by Steve Coogan, an English comedian highly rated in this country for TV shows such as This is Alan Patridge. Previous Coogan film efforts have been failures. In this he has merely followed so many English comedians before him (remember Morecambe and Wise in The Intelligence Men? No, of course you don't). But this performance is really excellent, rightly making Wilson seem absurd, pretentious, annoying, frivolous and lovable all at once. Sean Harris is magnetic in a too brief performance as Ian Curtis, who had too brief a life. Danny Cunningham is fine as Sean Ryder, who still survives, despite his best endeavours. (In one of the film's more alarming moments, Ryder and his mates put Tom Lehrer's injunction to Poison a Pigeon in the Park into full effect.) Followers of British comedy and music will enjoy spotting dozens of other guest appearances. Michael Winterbottom directs efficiently, and the movie has just enough of Wilson's vaunted post-modern detachment to lend a sense of irony while avoiding annoyance. The soundtrack, which being largely from Factory Records' back catalogue is Wilson's lasting monument, is wonderful.See this movie.  "}{"Title":"Stumbles","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's more to this than meets the eye. You may like it simply for the music. Superficially, it is a one of those things unsuitably called a docudrama, a category that I don't quite understand.But here's the way it is constructed. We have a fellow whose job is to show viewers around odd and interesting things. He's a character who takes on a metarole in the film as our guide, sometimes within the movie and sometimes stepping out of it and speaking directly to us, using several modes.And the subject of this carefully folded structure? Anarchism. Music as anarchy, as specifically breaking the musical equivalent of narrative. I'm not sure that anyone can honestly like this music without making the commitment themselves. Otherwise, its a sort of perverse voyeurism, but I guess that's what drives the music business.Winterbottom isn't a halfway kinda guy though, and you should be inclined to share anything he serves up. Here, he is back in the German new wave mode, where there is no story at all. No arc, no climax. Each event just sort of falls into the next. The camera (which takes the role of the watcher within, Tony, and the watcher without) similarly falls. To underscore this, Winterbottom has Ian Curtis hang himself in front of a TeeVee. On that is playing Herzog's Stroszek, dancing chicken and the amuck truck. Its Herzog's film with the same attitude no narrative, a loss of narrative is the narrative or where the hole is.After that death, incidentally, is one of the most haunting images I've seen. I do not think it is taken from another film. Children in Klan suits, some black, parade in a highly stylized 2d shot, then one carries a huge, erect Klan hat on a false color beach and tumbles.You might consider this the male lover of 9 Songs. I do.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"One Word - Boredom. Sick Boredom","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was told it had to be a good movie. I nearly forced myself to watch it till the end, and yet, I skipped some moments due to one and relentless feature of this awful film - boredom. This is probably The worst movie I ever saw in many years. Everything seems to be wrong here. The casting is wrong, as actors seem to be only delivering their cues obviously lacking soul and gusto. The light - this sick sepia tone and frequent colored glitches really make dizzy and vomiting. The plot is a meandering endless talk of the main hero, not interesting in a split second. Even the music - nay, it has no cohesion here, and only Wrote For Luck by Happy Mondays is OK. The film was supposed to be about bands? Nay, I saw no real bands - just a mish-mash of some trite clichés, awful concert cues, millions of 4-letter invectives and silly sex scenes. The Factory records? It never was depicted nice, too. Just a scanty account of some dialogs, shaky camera fights, more bad words and more booze. Well, I would not like to be in such Britain as in the film. I trued as hard as I could to follow. Hopeless. Meaningless trash, coarse language, endless talks, blurred camera work, very hazy plot and very slow development. Just bad. Skip it "},{"Title":"Raving Manchester","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was mislead by the trailers of '24 Hour Party People' have been very misleading. I thought it would be another 'Trainspotting' type movie about party animals. However, it's something different, something better. Though many have compared it to the likes of 'Studio 54' (Lord knows why), '24 Hour Party People' is a far better made and more effective film. Based on a true story, it takes place during the time when punk rock was subsiding and new kinds of music were born in England. Shot with a digital camera, in documentary style with some use of live footage and narrated by Tony Wilson, (who leads a double life as a TV reporter and music producer), Michael Winterbottom takes us into the rave culture in Manchester, that of sex, drugs and rock and roll. We see it all from Wilson's point of view and we are amused by the layers of his character. Coogan breathes life into Tony Wilson and brings an excellent humour in his portrayal. Paddy Considine and Shirley Henderson stand out too. Pretty much all the performances appear authentic. Watch out for cameos by Andy Serkis, Simon Pegg and Marsha Thomason and by real bandmembers. The portrayal of the Manchester culture, the scenes inside the club and the bands look very real. Winterbottom infuses loads of energy and craze to 'seduce' the viewer. He cleverly injects dry humour which only supports that this is more than just a documentary-like movie. The soundtrack is a must-have and for those who love movies about music, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"I'll just say one word 'Icarus'. If you get it, great. If you don't, that's fine too. But you should probably read more.","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It would be unfair to dismiss 24 Hour Party People as a biographical look at Tony Wilson. It's so much more. It's a celebration of music, of a lifestyle, of a bygone era. It also plays like a Greek tragedy, albeit substantially more fun, but there is no shortage of darkness and tragedy in the film. The shifts in tone are particularly remarkable, as the film veers from its usual dry, sardonic tone into real pathos and examination of the dark side of almost any phenomenal success.I'm not completely nuts. I'm not going to claim that 24 Hour Party People is a visual masterpiece, or a film which achieves more with its characters than most accepted 'masterpieces' of cinema when it comes to depth. I'm not going to argue that it feels as complete an artistic achievement as one of the better films by a cinematic 'master'. Wait, what am I talking about? That's exactly what I'm going to argue. 24 Hour Party People is as perfect as a film can get, not because it achieves the visual perfection of one of Kubrick's finer films, not because it marks a turning point in cinema history, but because it sets out to be exactly what it ends up being- a hilarious, darkly satirical and yet affectionate look at one of the biggest 'scenes' in music history, some of the best bands, and the man behind it all, Tony Wilson. A minor player in his own life story. This is one of the most purely enjoyable films ever made. It all unfolds with a sort of inspired madness. The very first scene shows the charismatic, arrogant, and somewhat self-important Tony Wilson hang-gliding for a television report, then turning to the camera after that's over with and saying You're going to see a lot more of that sort of thing in the film. I don't want to say too much, don't want to spoil it. I'll just say one word 'Icarus'. If you get it, great. If you don't, that's fine too. But you should probably read more. It's not only a terrific line, indicative of the sort of dry wit much of the dialogue achieves, but also telling of what the film is going to be like. J.R. Jones of the Chicago Reader was one of the less infatuated major critics with the film (but still gave it a definitely positive review, which should give you some indication of just how well-received this film was by critics), and labeled Coogan's Wilson a a pedantic narrator, describing his story as having little narrative momentum of its own. I like to think that's sort of the point, and Wilson himself makes a point to mention in the film that it's not a film about him. The highlight of the film, arguably even more than Frank Cottrell Boyce's screenplay, is Steve Coogan as Tony Wilson. As everyone reading this probably knows, Coogan based his famed Alan Partridge character on Tony Wilson's career as a television reporter, so he's really playing a variation on Alan Partridge here. What's amazing about Coogan's performance is that he manages to draw even this Partridge fan into Tony Wilson's world so much that I didn't care about any similarity. It's still a stunning comic performance, and excellent during the darker, more serious scenes in the film as well. I'd go as far as saying that it's one of the best male performances of the decade. The rest of the cast is too large to go through one by one, but everyone is excellent here, some going for a sort of slightly altered impersonation of the real-life person they're playing, some creating their own version. A point of criticism often aimed at 24 Hour Party People is inaccuracy. The film is gleefully inaccurate, and I fail to see how that's a problem. We didn't need a pedantic, touch-on-all-bases film about Factory Records, because Factory Records would never have made such a movie had they ventured into film production. This is exactly the sort of loose-knit and yet tightly-written film that is needed to capture the energy of the music and the movement. Boyce's screenplay goes through dozens of characters, none of which don't feel real, it's got enough pompous and arrogant philosophizing to turn off even the worst pseudo-intellectual, but it makes it work simply because it's got a sort of self-mocking sense of humor. The points Wilson makes by referencing history and philosophy are valid, but it would be at odds with the sort of film this is if they weren't written with the wry wit the rest of the film is, and if they weren't delivered so wonderfully by Coogan. The film is shot on video, and uses a hand-held style which far from inhibiting the film as it arguably does with some other Winterbottom films, just suits it perfectly. That doesn't mean there aren't some scenes which are explosively extravagant visually, because there are, and they are beautiful. 24 Hour Party People feels like a complete artistic achievement. It captures the energy of the music, the feel of it, the basis for the movement so well, but also succeeds at providing a well-told summary of the story of Factory Records, the Hacienda, and Tony Wilson. As far as I'm concerned it's one of the most enjoyable films ever made, and one of the most consistently successful. I don't think there's anything here that falls flat, it's all quite brilliant, from the first scene to the final shot. 10/10 "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was basically thrown away by MGM, to audiences which had to find it themselves. Which is somewhat in keeping with a record label whose products had to be sought out, then correctly deciphered (Factory products weren't labeled, as such). Only here, all the promotional materials were limp and half-hearted (poster, DVD box, marketing, etc). Never hand the marketing of counterculture to the timid drones who work at a mass-market studio like MGM.This assembles the Factory/Joy Division/Happy Mondays/Manchester story for those who came late to the game, or were geographically out of the picture. Tony Wilson (Steve Coogan) acts as historian, tour guide, and chronicler of the Manchester scene that produced the hideously over-valued and mythologized Joy Division. The technique is to acknowledge that we're watching a movie now and again which spares it from a typical plot line, and emotional arc. Plot-schmott, just enjoy yourself watching a maverick music guru getting dragged down by a nightclub that's become an anchor around his neck. The movie has gotten way off track by the time Tony is taking credit for rave culture which has zero to do with the the initial impetus of putting together a label for a bunch of angry, anti-social, post-punk bands. Rave culture is about as angry as numbing yourself with drugs to look at pretty colors; and disappearing into your own baby-boomer-offspring selfishness ethos. The original Factory acts would have been punching these big babies.Still I'd trade anything to live in a world of thirty billion Tony Wilsons (as remade here). He's always either smart, or funny, except when it comes to business. And the movie is infinitely better and more enjoyable than the similar 'Studio 54,' with Mike Myers as Steve Rubell. As everyone has noted it runs too long, and loses steam. "},{"Title":"Scaborous but Entertaining Musical Opus","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A frantic,no-holds barred biopic of the sadly recently deceased Tony Wilson,the Manchester-based regional news presenter turned record label owner turned nightclub owner(influenced by witnessing a sparsely attended gig the infamous Punk Rockers The Sex Pistols did in the city in June 1976),and the trials and tribulations surrounding the pop groups Joy Division and The Happy Mondays.Director Michael Winterbottom has elected to film 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLE in a breathless,hand-held,cinema verite style on digital video,packed with incidents that may or may not be true,plus Brechtian-style interjections by Wilson himself,reminding us that this is only a film we're watching;there are even scenes of UFO's of visions of God thrown in to make sure of this! On one level,this is all extremely entertaining,funny and inventive.Winterbottom's style does not interfere with the substance too markedly(although that is a double meaning;the substance is not just referring to the script but the illegal chemicals used by virtually everyone on show in every sequence)and is apt for telling this kind of story,which he achieves with considerable aplomb.Their are problems for the actors involved. Steve Coogan,Andy Serkis,Danny Cunningham,Paddy Considine,Ralf Little,John Simm,etc. are perfectly good in their roles,but because of the ferocious pace that Winterbottom has applied to the film,there are very few opportunities for little more than superficial characterisations,which end up in coming across little better that impersonation.Coogan,an extremely talented comic actor,is not quite as good a serious actor,and he occasionally seems a trifle uncomfortable in several scenes which would have worked better being played straight rather than for laughs.He doesn't remotely resemble the real Tony Wilson in appearance,and his performance sometimes veers into caricature and Alan Partridge-isms.The best performance comes from Sean Harris as the tragic Ian Curtis;this is the nearest we get to any sort of character with depth.But even before the suicide of Curtis (which is shown in a rather too jokey manner),we still don't find the proper reasons why he decided to take his own life;the new film CONTROL will hopefully tell the story of Ian Curtis in full detail.However,there are some amusing cameos from such Manchester musical icons as Mark E.Smith,Clint Boon and Mani,which come off rather well and enhance our interest and enjoyment of the film.The music itself is great,but to truly tell the story of 'MADCHESTER' in greater detail,you need to mention other groups such as The Stone Roses,The Inspiral Carpets,James,The Charlatans,Northside and 808 State,who are totally anonymous here.Highly influential as Tony Wilson,Factory Records and The Hacienda were,there were many other important players involved to make it so unique and memorable.Perhaps the filmmakers couldn't obtain the copyright for these other great tunes.The recreation of the Hacienda itself is convincing (being filmed where it was actually located),as are the whimsical,if not farcical, reports from the local TV station (GRANADA TV) which was Wilson's day job in between running his record label and nightclub. The contrast from the early,near-empty Hacienda to the jam-packed glory of it's post-punk,rave peak is amusing,but more scenes here with the music and dancing may have given us a better feel of what made the 'MADCHESTER' era so special.The scenes recreated of the Hacienda at it's peak are very well done,but rather too fleeting.The references to the excessive drug intake there (particularly the Mondays) are thankfully not preachy but rather too ambivalent.An interview on the DVD extras with lead singer Shaun Ryder (bloated,prematurely aged and shaking) possibly should've also been included in the film as a warning to the excesses of the rock n'roll lifestyle.The Mondays had proved ability at creating quirky music,but away from the recording studio they seemed grossly inarticulate,repellent-minded oafs whose desire for temporary hedonism soon brought them crashing to earth,though they have made a comeback of sorts in recent years,bruised and battered and a trifle more sensible.Wilson himself had no sort of business sense;Factory Records went bankrupt in 1992,and the Hacienda finally closed it's doors in 1997 after trouble with various gangs and police objections.Tony Wilson himself sadly died on 10 August 2007 after a battle with kidney cancer aged only 57.He has been much mourned here in the North West of England,particularly around Manchester,a city and people that he loved and stuck with through the bad times,until it briefly became,around 1989-1991,the musical centre of the world.That's what Tony himself wanted everybody to think,with him as the pivotal figure.These statements are perhaps not entirely true,but 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLE is generally a fitting epitaph to a true musical visionary,hating the monetary driven London-based music industry,and bucking the trend by being more interested in producing music than making money.Hopefully in the near future,someone may produce a more in depth documentary look at Tony Wilson and 'MADCHESTER',a period I will always recall with fondness as I was attending college at the time,around Manchester.That may be an even more fitting epitaph.RATING7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Filming the legend, perhaps not the truth.","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The story of Factory Records is one I lived through by reading the UK music press whilst growing up in the 80's and 90's. I read about the parties, the drugs, the fights, the splits and the deaths. The people were larger than life caricatures, in a time before 'celebrity' had reached the nadir it has plumbed today. The best soap opera set in Manchester... What I read were legends, the truth hidden behind the ink. Having watched it brought to life, I'm still not certain what really happened. As Steve Coogan as Tony Wilson quotes in the film 'if I have the choice between the truth and the legend, print the legend'. Here the legend has been filmed.And largely, they've played if for laughs. The real-life Tony Wilson is someone is often laughed at true, but when he speaks there's a hard edge, a confidence and edge, maybe even a whiff of intellectual brutishness, that Steve Coogan's portrayal doesn't have. The Tony Wilson in the film reminds me most of other Steve Coogan roles such as Alan Partridge. Unfortunate that the central role is lacking, as all the many other roles revolving round this centre of levity are wonderful. Most especially good are Andy Serkis as Martin Hannett and Sean Harris as Ian Curtis.This film's brilliance is in showing the life of a large, amorphous group of people brought together for the purpose of making music. There is an ill-defined boundary round the edge of Factory Record through which people slip quietly. From within, all is energy and life. Relationships fizzing off one another bringing tragedy and comedy, art and manure in equal measure. Lives lived brightly with a heart that still beats today, even though the body has been scattered to the major labels around the world. This thing really did exist, here is the testament.Help, I'm beginning to sound like Tony Wilson.There are other successes and failures. The Hacienda is resurrected to the smallest detail. The claim to show the real Manchester of the time rings hollow. This maybe their Manchester, but it isn't the real one. The in-flight narrative by Coogan as Wilson is simple, yet doesn't work. The cameos by many of the 'real' people is great if you know who they are. If you don't 'get' Factory, you'll probably not 'get' this film.As an attempt to bottle the Factory spirit, this is a roaring success and for that it gets high marks. This is not the real story, something that would make for a great documentary all of its own. One for re-living the legends rather than looking at them critically. "},{"Title":"The Beatification of the Beat.","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Still first choice for a late pop-in into the DVD-player when you're having friends over for a late-night drink. Most of them have seen it by now, but I've yet to disappoint someone. It's a great success every time, again and again. You'd wanna see this for the music, but you don't even have to like Joy Division, Sex Pistols, The Buzzcocks, The Smiths, A Certain Ratio, The Fall, Happy Mondays, this is just plain clever and fun. That's all there is to it. I was a fan of Joy Division before I saw this film and basically became a fan of everything Mancunian afterwards. The film consists of two parts. The first hour is Joy Division and the second hour is for The Happy Mondays and the subsequent new rave and techno developments. It's a blast, filled with priceless observations about musical developments, hilariously delivered by Steve Coogan as Tony Wilson, chief mogul of the chaotic Factory Records and Grenada Television reporter. All the other characterizations are simply brilliant. Don't miss it.Camera Obscura --- 9/10 "},{"Title":"Welcome to Manchester","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a loose biography of the Manchester music scene, as told through the eyes of one of its chief supporters, Factory records mini-mogul Tony Wilson. This is done in a dramatic, non-documentary style, with a lot of amusing fourth-wall commentary from the main character. I found it very entertaining, and believe me when I say my expectations were low. Whenever they hire actors to play rock icons I get very leery. Gary Oldman as Sid Vicious? Okay. That's the one good instance I can think of off the top of my head. But the guy who played Ian Curtis was absolutely sincere and the performance touched me. From a cinematography standpoint, as the eras passed in the film, from the 70s through to the 90s, the look of the film updated itself accordingly. I thought this was brilliant and very unassumingly done. Watching 24-Hour Party People also set us off on a whole Happy Mondays kick here at home; a band whose music we couldn't have been less interested in before. Shaun Rider's newer project, Black Grape, is also very good, but that's another review for another website. Recommended viewing not only for fans of the pop musicians involved in the story, but also for those of contemporary creative British cinema. "},{"Title":"highly enjoyable","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  highly enjoyablefirst of all I have to say, that my music knowledge of the time period considered by the movie tends to zero. Most of the reviews came to the conclusion, that in this case it's impossible to enjoy this movie. Well, in fact I did. A lot of the shortcomings that are claimed, I have to agree on, especially concerning the script. But never the less this movie does something what only good movies do. It takes you to a different point of view. Right, I normally  might don't care about a band like Joy Division, but through the eyes of Tony Wilson I do. I was taken back to a different time, space and lifestyle, more or less to an other universe and I very much like it, though I have no idea if the thing experienced with the movie has anything to do with what it really was like. Beside this the movie is a fine piece of filmmaking and there fore just a pleasure to watch. Good acting, well done pseudo documentary style approach, loads of dry humor. Sometimes it gets a bit sentimental, but this you have to stand through, which is not this hard, because thankfully the film doesn't take it self to serious. This doesn't mean it would not be totally devoted to it's subject, but it just takes it with a twinkle in it's eye. The most important point of course is the music. Even being no fan of it and having no clue about the bands, the music alone is worth seeing this movie All in all it's of course not a masterpiece or a work of genius, but it's highly enjoyable for anyone who will allow to be take with to a place where (supposedly) history was made.   "}{"Title":"Mad for it? Not quite, but I still enjoyed it","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After Coogan's last effort, the dreadful `The Parole Officer' I was wary of `24 Hour Party People'. I needn't have worried &#150; the two are not at all comparable.The movie tells the true story of Tony Wilson (Steve Coogan), owner of Manchester's Factory Records, signing up the new, innovative bands that catches Wilson's talented eye as well as creating a club for groups to play in. Two of these bands &#150; Joy Division and The Happy Mondays &#150; are the main focus for the movie, seeing as how these bands, with their eclectic leads and band members , caused enough of a ruckus to have a decent story told about them.The film is shot in a borderline mockumentary style with Wilson making often very funny humorous asides to the camera. This style, by director Michael Winterbottom , is itself a tribute to the low-key cheap but energetic music of the time, which spans from the mid 70s to early 90s. The movie is interspersed with clips from other media, including concert footage of the bands. It gives an almost TV-production feel to the movie, but that doesn't detract from the story.Unfortunately if you are unfamiliar with the subject material, and the bands, you will be possibly lost, as the film seems to assume a certain familiarity with everything. As the film covers a span of years it tends to dip in at certain moments &#150; the idea isn't so much as to be a documentary, as a homage to the era, giving the viewer a flavour of the times, which is grand if only you know what you are tasting. `24 Hour Party People' will best be enjoyed by people familiar with the movie's subject matter. Coogan is on fine form here, his Wilson somewhat reminiscent of his earlier TV work which brought him to fame. The mixture of humour and tragedy, plus some fine imitations of real bands, makes for an entertaining movie that is one of the best of the British movies to come out in recent times. 7.5/10.  "},{"Title":"A Strung Out High by Thomas J. O'Connor","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 24 Hour Party People chronicles the unlikely rise of British journalist turned record producer/promoter Tony Wilson amidst the emerging Manchester music scene in the late 70's. It's questionable as to how big a role Wilson actually played in the success of such bands as the Sex Pistols or Joy Division, but the screenwriter makes him the protagonist. Wilson's biggest contribution was offering a venue a la Studio 54 where the exploration of music there evolved by happenstance into what is todays Electronica genre.The film's pace resembles the doldrums of a strung out high and is as aimless as the success that came to its real life counterparts. One of the disc's two audio commentaries features the real life Tony Wilson bemoaning the apparent sensationalism of the film in contrast to the truth, to which the filmmakers cleverly counterpoint in the film's narrative, When you have to choose between the truth and the legend, print the legend. "},{"Title":"Good Job I Enjoyed The Joy Division Soundtrack","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" So Alan Partridge was based upon Tony Wilson ? I always genuinely believed that Coogan's legendary comedy character was based on Richard Madeley but watching the real Tony Wilson's pretentious egotistical and painfully insincere conversations on television I suppose there is a bit of Wilson in Partridge - Or is the fact that Coogan plays Wilson in this biographical movie something that prejudices my view ? Come to think of it Wilson's body language and hand gestures remind me far more of Tony Blair than anyone else . I digress 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLE is a highly self indulgent mockumentary film centered on the creation of Manchester based Factory Records . Highly self indulgent in the way it brings to the narrative things that only the real life characters know or give a toss about . Things like the real life Howard DeVoto ( It's okay I've never heard of him either ) addressing the camera and saying  I can't remember that bit  . That's nice to know Howard because Western Civilisation was resting on this part of the plot - If not the entire movie . I'm sure we can all rest easy in our beds knowing the truth and I look forward to the sequel PEOPLE TONY Wilson KNOWS AND THEIR HOME MOVIES Two things make the movie worth watching for me ...1 ) The eclectic cast featuring people as diverse as Andy Serkis , Christopher Ecclestone , Peter Kay and Jack Duckworth's son 2 ) The soundtrack . Most especially Joy Division , a band that was (in)famous for its bleak , nihilistic tones and the bizarre on stage antics of Ian Curtis and praise too for Sean Harris who captures Curtis's mannerism perfectly But unless you've enjoyed the music of at least one Manchester band be it Joy Division , New Order or The Happy Mondays you might not want to join this party "},{"Title":"I wish I could love this movie...","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As I am a big fan of the bands who secured the glory of Factory Records, especially Joy Division and Durutti Column, I was quite impatient to discover 24 Hour Party People. I watched it last night and the first thing i will say will be the following one how disappointed I was! The scriptwriter Frank Cottrell Boyce and especially the director Michael Winterbottom did a really bad work and I will try to explain why.For me 24 Hour Party People is an enjoyable movie to listen to, mainly thanks to the music. Someone has written on this site that you had to be British to appreciate the music. Not necessarily. I am myself French and I love most of the bands who signed for Factory Records. Obviously, you have to like this time (English independent music of the eighties), this culture. That said, these bands aren't very known in France where they remain at the stage of cult-bands. Michael Winterbottom's flick was apparently successful in Great-Britain, but in France it was belatedly launched (on the 4th June 2003) and it went unnoticed. But the main problem is that 24 Hour Party People is, visually an exhausting movie to watch. I must say that I don't appreciate very much the making adopted by Winterbottom. There's an amateurish side, reinforced by a granular and quite dirty photography in his way of filming that I highly disapprove. It seems that his camera can't stand still even in the quietest moments. On another hand, when the movie arrives at the end of the eighties (the golden age for Manchester), as if he wanted to recreate the crazy atmosphere of the town in 1989-1990, he didn't skimp on the flashy effects which ends up annoying the spectator. Then, Winterbottom must have been influenced by Trainspotting (1996) because in his directing, we can sometimes detect a video clip side.To go on, the authors of the movie seem to have forgotten one important thing. Factory Records wasn't only limited to Joy Division and the Happy Mondays. There was also Durutti Column and New Order. All right, the movie doesn't forget them but you can only see them for a few minutes. Given that, the film nearly skips the mid-eighties and quite obviously Joy Division and the Happy Mondays's careers especially interested the authors. Due to this, you can easily separate the movie in two parts. The first one mainly focuses on Joy Division while the second involves mostly the Happy Mondays. This characteristic is confirmed with the cover of the original soundtrack which depicts Tony Wilson (of course) but also Ian Curtis and Shaun Ryder. By way of consolation, we can object that Winterbottom had intuition for the cast because the actors he hired to play the musicians are very true to life, especially the ones in the roles of Ian Curtis and Bernard Sumner. Furthermore, the actor who acts Martin Hannett is very convincing in the shameless personality of this extraordinary producer.Tony Wilson's voice-off is necessary to guide us through the most important stages. So as to give the spectator interest in the film, it can also be a good thing to make Wilson directly speak to the camera to make us share his feelings, his thoughts on Manchester, the music. So long as this idea doesn't overload the movie and I have unfortunately this impression. Winterbottom and Boyce should have restrained these too frequent apparitions.The screenplay retained the most outstanding moments in the history of Tony Wilson and Factory Records but it doesn't stop it from having neglecting important stages as well. For example, I am sure that the fans of Joy Division would have liked to see the band recording their great disembodied album, Closer (1980). Then, in the first part of the work, the punk and new-wave spirit are well rendered (in one sequence, we see one character taking off from the wall a poster depicting Pink Floyd's album Dark Side Of The Moon (no Pink Floyd in 1977!) as well as the festive one in the second part through the Hacienda and ecstasy. But because, the director wanted to dazzle the spectator, at a visual level, it is difficult to fully enjoy this exhausting film. So you are never touched by a movie that is meant to take a nostalgic look at a past time.This is my opinion about 24 Hour Party People excellent music but an average movie. If a director wishes to make a film about Alan McGee, the former boss of Creation Records (Oasis and Primal Scream's former record company), I hope he won't do the same mistakes as Michael Winterbottom with this flick.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, innovative telling of the Madchester story","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Brilliant, innovative telling of the Madchester story.The story of the emergence of Manchester as a major musical centre in the late-1970s and 80s. The story is told through the eyes of Tony Wilson (played by Steve Coogan), Grenada TV presenter/journalist, owner of The Hacienda, a famed Manchester club, and founder of Factory Records. We see the where it all started - the Sex Pistols first gig in Manchester and the emergence of bands like the Buzzcocks and, most importantly, Joy Division. We see how New Order formed from Joy Division and later we meet the Happy Mondays... Wonderfully entertaining yet edifying. It helps if you're into bands like Joy Division and the Happy Mondays, as I am. Even if you're not, it is worth watching to gain a better knowledge of musical history and the importance of what took place in Manchester in the 80s.This movie could easily have degenerated into a dry, linear history lesson. However, director Michael Winterbottom keeps the audience engaging and entertained through many innovative methods breaking the fourth wall, humour, Wilson's narration and some interesting visual effects.As you would expect, there is a lot of music in the movie, and it is all great. Well chosen and timed too, as the music gives the movie its momentum.Solid performance by Steve Coogan in the lead role. While mostly a dramatic role, there are quite a few comedic moments, and Coogan is in his element there. Good supporting cast too. "},{"Title":"As a movie = 7. As a documentary = 4. Overall = 6. Nice watch, but historically incorrect.","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" -contains spoilers-Tony Wilson is full of himself with his twisted recollection of the 80s and 90s and how this rave culture and genre of music came about.In this movie he claims that it came about through his collaborations with this new order of music he discovered called Punk Rock in the very late 70s. Also makes it appear that he alone helped to launch this genre of music to the public. That is totally untrue and either he is delusional or just lying to sell the story. Punk and this hard rock type of sound originated in the very early 70s with followers of bands like MC5, The Stooges, and others. The stuff that played at The Factory may have included punk-styled singers but most of the bands were just pop-rock garage bands.Later into the 80s and early 90s the bands Tony Wilson was incorporated with were just the same type of pop dance music you heard everywhere, but some with a slightly rougher sound some of the time. He says in the film that they were based on some new sound one of his producers had created but since the late 70s there were hundreds of bands similar to Happy Mondays, New Order, etc. Even American radio had been playing lighter versions of these bands like The Cure for almost a decade before.He claims that his club in the early 90s and these bands playing there accidentally stumbled onto this new form of music called rave. That and his claim that they were the first club playing this new music and having live DJs is another total untruth. There were rave parties in Orlando and Miami every weekend, that I remember, from 88-98. This rave music and it's dance parties had been all over the world before his club even opened. And it was not based on pop-rock-dance bands but digital music intentionally designed for those taking hallucinogenics and other drugs, not just dancing. It is more likely that no one wanted to see the bands he was sponsoring so the club had to change and jump on the new dance party trend that was already sweeping the world.Though this is an entertaining movie and I would recommend it if you come across it on television. The fact that it is a type of documentary based on lies makes it's score plummet. Tony Wilson could have very easily just told things in a historically accurate way and the movie would mean much more. "},{"Title":"Ian Curtis' death leaves a big hole","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's a semi-true story as Coogan would himself tell the audience as he breaks down the 4th wall. In 1976 Manchester, TV presenter Tony Wilson (Steve Coogan) is risking his life hang gliding for silly Granada Reports and he's not happy about it. Then he is one of the 42 people to see the first Sex Pistols gig along with others like the kids in Joy Division. He would tout the overlooked music scene on his small show So It Goes. He rents out a club to play his type of music on Fridays. He turns that into Factory Records where he signs up Joy Division among others. Joy Division would attract skinheads because of their Nazi inspired name. Lead singer Ian Curtis commits suicide just when the group is on the verge of their American tour. Tony continues with the creation of the infamous dance club The Hacienda.The movie starts pretty funny with Coogan breaking down the 4th wall within the first 10 minutes. Ian Curtis becomes the second most important character in the movie. That's why his lost leaves a big hole in the emotional feel of the movie. It's like the comedic air is let out and the movie feels flattened. The funny is gone. The movie still works but it's just not as much fun. "},{"Title":"Sound!","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film makers achieved what they wanted!The music is fantastic as is the look, the acting and the casting. You really couldn't want more from a music film. The story covers a very important period in music and does so with a touch of genuine soul.The movie is funny and entertaining and as authentic as they could make it within the parameters of the story. Any criticism would be unwarranted. I honestly can't say anymore. I suggest you sit back and enjoy the ride. It obviously helps If you have some prior knowledge of the story and the music.Tony Wilson could be a pompous patronising c***, but was blessed with a wee stroke of genius and this film portrays this well.Good job all round. "},{"Title":"A lot of Tony Wilson","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie twice in the cinema and enjoyed it very much. Not a strange thing because I'm totally into the music of that period and the bands from Manchester pictured in the movie. Now I have watched it at home and feel slightly disappointed by it. Some lesser aspects of this film were made clear to me. The whole film is very fragmented and an almost 15 years are tried to put into one story. And that story handles punk, new wave, indie, baggy and rave, all different subcultures.Then there's the main character Tony Wilson (well acted by Steve Coogan) who tells us that this movie Is not about Tony Wilson. Well the movie is in fact about Tony Wilson and not about the music, the musicians or the scene. Of course Wilson played a pivotal role in creating the Manchester scene with his Factory label and the Hacienda club. But think about this of the six legendary bands that came out of Manchester in the period of '75-'95 only two (Joy Division/New Order and the Happy Mondays) were on the Factory label. Oke, he was too late for the Buzzc***s and too early for Oasis but he rejected the Smiths and he hated the Stone Roses. In fact these two bands who were the leading groups of their time are only mentioned once or shown for just a split second. The reason of course is that this film is about Tony Wilson and we must not get under the impression that this almost god missed two legendary bands for the label he ruined personally. But 24 Hour Party People is not completely a glorification of Mr. Wilson. He is often portrayed as a complete t**t which give some relieve and humor during the I have been such an important person for the development of music in my period scenes. And there are the scenes when you see Tony as a reporter for Granada Television. These scenes are relatively funny but they also draw you away from the real story.So what is still good about 24 Hour Party People? Michael Winterbottom manages to show the zeitgeist of a very interesting period in rock and dance music. His film is very hip and very funny, but also sad. Especially when you see the decline of a very talented man like Martin Hannett. Of course the suicide of Ian Curtis is also a very sad moment but unless you have some knowledge of Joy Division (which most viewers will have I assume) you are left wandering why the hell this guy hangs himself. And that is probably the main problem that Winterbottom didn't solve. Unless you followed the music scene during these years or you have read about it the story is hard to follow. And you wonder what was so unique about this period in rock music and about the main characters pictured here (Curtis, Hannett, Ryder). Winterbottom managed to get a great ensemble of actors together here. Sean Harris gives the best portrait of Ian Curtis I have seen so far and Andy Serkis is great as Martin Hannett. It is my opinion that Danny Cunningham is less convincing as Shaun Ryder, but he is probably impossible to play.So in my own chair and with a partner without knowledge of the music scene in Manchester the flaws in this movie were clear. But still the hipness, humor and acting skills attracts. "},{"Title":"The Feel, if not the Fact...","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" So, the history is there, in a sort of hazy blotch of spurtches (those are real words, look them up), but of course it's told to us by one person, Tony Wilson, who everyone in the film repeatedly says is a c*nt, and potentially the worst kind, a charming c*nt that appears to know everything, is married multiple times to women he constantly cheats on, and appears to fail at everything except failure (he's apparently married to a former Miss UK as of the film's making). His specialty is talking out of his ass and spotting the next big thing in music. So, we're treated to the Sex Pistols, we're treated to Joy Division and New Order, the Happy Mondays, bands the kids don't know they know unless they know they need to. It's told tongue-and-cheek, and you know it must embrace the spirit of it because there are multiple cameos by the people who were a part of it. It also comes with a light of mockumentary about it, as though it needs to make fun of itself to keep you off about whether this or that happened that way or if it happened at all (and sometimes they will straight up tell you it didn't). A little too self-aware to be a masterpiece, but it's revetting and loads of fun to watch, all the same. "}{"Title":"One of only two or three great Hollywood movies about music","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" You would think that Hollywood and the music business would be very close, with the executives lunching together every day in the slick restaurant scene that only LA and New York City have to offer. But you would be wrong. The evidence is that on both sides (music execs trying to make movies and tone deaf Hollywood moguls)there has been a massive failure in joining the two art forms. The one big exception is the growing body of work by Scorcese. Which brings me to this film, one of the top music movies ever made. For those of us who have followed music since the birth of rock n roll, it is particularly amazing and satisfying that it took the British to make this masterpiece about the BUSINESS of rock. Since Edison, it is a combination of business and technology that has created the music industry and led to its massive melt down, and the complete hand over to Apple. But that is another story. This film does its best to sum up why and how it has been impossible for rock and roll artists to grow their art separate from a completely insane and out of control money system that sold it down the river. The setting of this film is in the brief but fascinating Manchester music scene and this is the perfect back drop for a goofy, chaotic, and ultimately tragic tale that just never stops moving. Steve Coogan is brilliant in a once in a life time role that must have been written just for him. How else can you explain this funny, hilarious, and absolutely true picture of a music money man gone mad. I am not exaggerating that when movies were invented, they were meant for just this; social and artistic commentary that is moving, funny and absolutely unforgettable. I have seen this movie more than once, and each time I am amazed, delighted and so sad that a artistic world once so promising came to this. "},{"Title":"Some kind of time machine.","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 24 Hour Party People is a film that perfectly captures the spirit of an era. For those who have been born some years after that period, or those who have not reached to live it fully (including me), 24 hour party people becomes a kind of historical document.The film tells the story of Factory records, in a mock-documentary style. How it arose, how it established, and finally its debacle.Steve Coogan delivers an excellent job in the role of Tony Wilson and Andy Serkis on the other hand makes an exceptional portrait of a lost genius as was Martin Hannet.Without a doubt, the job of Micheal Winterbottom is one of the most original I've seen. It is a strange narrative between observation and integration of the viewer. In some points the main character take us into the story and even gives us some hints of future events. The film shows us its own cinematic mechanism in order to include us in it. A blend of past, present and future, where Tony Wilson knows he is making history.Finally, as Steve Coogan says, 24 Hour Party People is a movie about music, about that period in particular and what it gave to the world. The characters involved are only secondary elements which belonged to that spirit.Music lovers, enjoy it. And those who are not so, take a sit, relax, and open your mind to a new form of cinema. You won't regret.I hope you enjoyed this review. See you next time. PS Excuse my English, i'm doing my best. "},{"Title":"well worth watching","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tony Wilson was the man who put Manchester on the map as far as music is concerned with his innovative label Factory records and his Hazienda club. With total disregard for all commercial aspects Wilson followed his vision to enable bands to develop themselves by granting them total artistic freedom. Needless to say he went bankrupt. Unfortunately, Tony Wilson also came across as a pompous ass occasionally. I'm not sure if that judgement is fair Wilson was a highly educated man who never seemed to fit into the music business life style. Steve Coogan , who is a brilliant comedian, does not really play him in this film. He delivers more of a parody of the man although to be fair he does give him some moments of dignity like when the Joy Division leadsinger kills himself or when he tells his punters to loot the offices when the Hacienda is closed down. I just feel there is more to Wilson then just the pompous wide eyed boy. From my perspective Wilson would be a very good subject for a docu-drama because he has the depth to be taken seriously and he deserves it. As a comedy drama 24 hour party people works quite well. The cast is great, Coogan is very funny (as always) although I find the idea that Steve Coogan in his Wilson persona actually comments on the film during the film a bit contrived. All in all it's hugely entertaining but I can't help feeling that after a very elaborate first half, the second half (when the really exciting things are happening) is a bit rushed. All in all the film is well worth watching but I feel that there still is a story about Tony Wilson and the Madchester movement that waits to be told. "},{"Title":"Excellent British Film!","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched 24 hour party people for the first time today and all i can say is what a great film this is! It's so fantastic to see the cream of British talent merged into a film that not only details events leading up to the what-we-now-call the rave culture but it displays a thoroughly in-depth representation of lifestyle in the country with so much British humour pouring out of it. Not knowing much about the punk-rock culture that gripped the world at that time, i was unaware of what to expect and probably thought i'd be seeing another 'Human Traffic', but i couldn't have been more wrong. '24 Hour Party People' sends you on a journey through the life of TV presenter/founder of Factory Records Tony Wilson, a production company that put such world-famous bands on the map such as 'Happy Mondays' and 'Joy Division'. With so many characters bursting with charisma and energy along the way, it's so hard to believe that such a wide variety of British actors (John Simm, Paddy Considine, Peter Kay, Shirley Henderson and Rob Brydon to name but a few) can actually make a film like this work, but not even these so talented performers damage the pace and genuity of such a work of art.This film sometimes had me believing whether what i was watching was fact or fiction, with the film largely based on true events and shot in mockumentary for, i sometimes struggled to realize history from point-of-views, but this only heightened the originality and structure of the movie. At of everything great about this movie, Steve Coogan has to come out at best. Everything he does is so down-right hilarious yet meaningful, bringing all of the brilliant characters to the height of their game. He basically moulds the entirety of the film and never shows signs of stopping when all has failed. OK so i could see hints of Alan Partrige in him (most notably the first section of the film when he hang-glides) but this only jolted me into hysterics more. This is a quality actor who should never be overlooked as one of Britain's all-time performers.Overall, i don't really have anything particularly bad to say about this film, and that's usually not the case for me! So if your a British citizen, whether or not you want to explore the origins of a key culture in our society (even today) this film is for you! I don't really know how it will go down with the rest of the world as their could be many mixed reviews, this is all down to the distribution and making of the film, you don't know whether it could be mainstream cinema or British indie. But this shouldn't put you off at all, so to see the best British comedians and actors with more chemistry (and chemicals) than a science lab, go out and get 24 Hour Party People! You will not regret it!p.s. the only thing it was missing was Lee Evans! P "},{"Title":"A Piece of genre defying brilliance","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched the DVD of '24 Hour Party People' again on the August night in 2007 when Tony Wilson died. I first saw it in 2002, and then I'd never heard of Tony Wilson, Factory Records, Joy Division, and was only vaguely aware that there had been a group called The Happy Mondays and a Manchester nightclub called the Hacienda. Yet, it's the strength of Michael Winterbottom's film that it made me wish I was a film director - the picture is so alive with the genuine possibilities of film-making.7 years later, the film stands up to many successive viewings as a piece of genre defying brilliance, and like the best English films - A Matter of Life and Death, A Hard Day's Night, Monty Python and the Holy Grail - finds fantasy in reality.Steve Coogan neither looks nor sounds like the real Tony Wilson - but that's part of the idiosyncratic point of the film. He's terrific in the part of the Cambridge graduate with ambitious plans for the Manchester music scene. The film follows Wilson from 1976, when he is a TV presenter in Manchester, up to closing of his nightclub the Hacienda in the early 1990s. It's the story of his record label, the groups he signed - Joy Division (later to become New Order) and the Happy Mondays - his epic nightclub and lots of civic pride.'24 Hour Party People' portrays the Manchester music scene of the time as being populated by foul, rowdy, drug fuelled yobs. Other than Wilson, none of the characters are remotely likable. Winterbottom's film is full of the authentic shabbiness and aggression of the late-seventies and the 1980s, but whilst the look is realistic, the directional style has an anything goes brilliance about it. For instance, Coogan's Wilson narrates to camera constantly referring to the fact you're watching a film. Indeed, the first scene is a 1976 Granada evening news report about hang gliding after which Wilson tells us - like the film we're about to watch - it works on a literal and metaphorical level. It's full of memorable moments like Shaun and Paul Ryder on a Manchester roof top, feeding the pigeons rat-poison filled bread then watching the pigeons fly and off and drop from the skies dead - all accompanied to the Ride of the Valkyries on the soundtrack. Or Wilson walking across Hacienda dance floor surrounded by frantic clubbers and saying of the birth of the Rave culture Something epoch-making is happening, they're applauding the DJ....Welcome to Madchester.Frank Cotteral Boyce's script gives Coogan's Wilson some sparkling dialogue, such as Jazz is the last refuge of the untalented. Jazz musicians enjoy themselves far more than anyone listening to them.Wilson eventually looses control of his nightclub to drug dealers and has to sell his record company Factory Records after the Happy Mondays spend three months in Barbados spending the company's money on drugs when they should have been recording their new album (they eventually record one, but without lyrics) In the final scene - atop of a gloomy Manchester roof top - Wilson sees a vision of God, who looks just like him. The supporting cast is uniformly good, from Shirley Henderson as his wife, Paddy Considine as Rob, the manager of Joy Division; Andy Serkis as the drunken, drug addicted sound recordist Martin Hannah; even Rob Brydon as a local rock journalist. Winterbottom is an astonishingly versatile director, but this is - along with it's companion piece A Cock and Bull Story - is by far his most entertaining film. "},{"Title":"the artists own all their own work, the label owns nothing, our bands have the freedom&#133;to f*** off ","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" -When you have to choose between the truth and the legend, print the legend-Very recently I wrote my IMDb comment for the -bad- movie Mr. Woodcock, in it I wrote that in my most recent visit to my local Blockbuster I found in the used DVDs (basically new DVDs, certainly cheap) a real gem the R1 DVD of 24 Hour Party People. I wrote that without even watching 24 Hour Party People, certainly I really wanted to watch it and I knew this was a gem or better I wanted that this could be a real gem in my book and now I can say this it is gem!24 Hour Party People opens in 1976, 3 years after The Dark Side of the Moon, 3 years before Unknown Pleasures, in 1976 we meet Tony Wilson (Steve Coogan) and we know he will be our man, our narrator, he will say to us that he should mention this or that and he will lead us into the music of Manchester, England. At one point, near the very last scene of the film Tony Wilson's club La Hacienda offers its very last night of service and Tony tries to give something more to the people, he says that they can take all from the offices, music equipment and stuff, he hopes people can use that stuff wisely. Near the very first scene of the film we see the Sex Pistols, small crowd, big impact, first Sex Pistols appearance in Manchester, certainly a historical moment and then Tony knew that. So we have that Tony's show is basically the only TV show that shows the Sex Pistols, The Clash, Iggy, etc. There will be the Factory night at the Russell club, there will be a record label, Factory Records. The anarchists, soon the band called once Warsaw will be in the studio, this whole session with Joy Division is really memorable, from the problems with the drum kit, the parts of She Lost Control, the hilarious stuff with the drummer on the roof to the final product. The death of the man who for Tony was the musical equivalent of Che Guevara, the end of Tony's marriage with Lindsay (Shirley Henderson), the end of the first act, my favourite act of the film for sure. You are reading the thoughts of a fella who is not a really big fan of the Sex Pistols and Joy Division, who had certainly heard and liked a lot certain songs by those bands and who before watching 24 Hour Party people never heard before about the Happy Mondays. So the second act begins and Tony introduce to us the boys that will be the Happy Mondays, second act is about a new high point for Tony and company, this time more excesses, still very memorable and very entertaining. I think Blue Monday is a really terrific song, successful single yet the financial problem for Tony and company was always there just as the drugs.I saw a film with Steve Coogan for the very first time when I saw the Jim Jarmusch film Coffee and Cigarettes, he was great in that wonderful short with Alfred Molina. I think Molina says only good things about 24 Hour Party People to Steve but anyway this was only the fourth film with Coogan that I see, for sure I need to see more of his stuff but meanwhile here he is just fantastic. Each actor here is doing a great job, I have Control yet to see but meanwhile I really liked Sean Harris as Ian Curtis. So I strongly recommend this picture, certainly after this I would like to see my second Michael Winterbottom film, I think I will start by giving a chance to the 2004 film 9 Songs. 9.5 out of 10PD curious for me that posters of my two favourites bands of all time (The Doors and Pink Floyd) can be seen in this film. First is the poster of The Dark Side of the Moon, it is remove by one of Tony's friends after seeing the Sex Pistols live. Later we can see a Jim Morrison poster in Ian Curtis' house. DVD special features Manchester the movie, About Tony Wilson, deleted scenes, commentary with Tony Wilson, commentary with Steve Coogan and Andrew Easton (producer), trailer and photo gallery. "},{"Title":"Interesting, funny look at England's music scene post 70s","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Saw this movie last year on SBS TV (Australia) and it was quite a revelation. It stars comedian Steve Coogan as Tony Wilson, a central figure in the Manchester, England, music scene (on the 'corporate' side of things). I can't say how realistic Coogan's portrayal of Wilson was, as I wouldn't know Wilson from a bar of soap. All I can say is that Coogan gives one of the most charismatic performances I've ever seen (some other charismatic performances I'm quite fond of include Orson Welles as Citizen Kane in the movie of that name, Robert de Niro for one scene in the otherwise dull Mean Streets and for a similar reason, Noah Taylor for one scene in He died with a felafel in his hand).Coogan plays Wilson as a rather droll person who wears his university education on his sleeve in his media work as an on-air personality (hosting a music show, amongst other things). If you don't have an Arts degree, you may find Wilson to be a bit of a tosser, but as someone with an Arts degree myself, I did find him hugely entertaining and, dare I say it, quite perceptive in his overly analytical dialogues on all manner of subjects.The movie charts the nature of the music industry from pre-Sex Pistols to around the time of New Order. I'm not a huge fan of the bands covered, but I learned a lot of interesting factoids about them. For fans of bands such as Joy Division etc, I'm sure that this movie will be even more rewarding, for purely music fan related reasons.As Wilson, as played by Coogan, might himself say, the movie has many post-modern conceits. As post-modern cultural artefacts go, you'd have to go back to the mid-18th century (to Henry Fielding's novel Tom Jones) to find one as post-modern as this. In other words, expect to see Wilson in this movie pointing out that he really isn't Tony Wilson, and that the real Tony Wilson has a cameo appearance in the movie as a TV director. That scene is actually in the movie and is not a spoiler. Other such cameos are pointed out in the movie. "},{"Title":"A thoroughly entertaining trip down memory lane","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching 24 Hour Party People was a nostalgic experience for me, bringing back memories of nights many moons ago. From beginning to end, the film is a genuine treat for anybody who experienced the Madchester scene or who has an appreciation for the music that came out of it.Steve Coogan's portrayal of the late, great Anthony H. Wilson is marvellously entertaining. Every scene is a joy to behold and the dialogue is hilariously true to life.The scenes around Manchester are superbly staged and there's a smörgåsbord of familiar faces in the movie. On top of this, the soundtrack and the recreation of the Hacienda's final night are too good to miss.9 out of 10. Not a perfect film but a genuine pleasure to view. "},{"Title":"One of the wildest, most inventive pieces of British cinema in recent years","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" At one point in the film, Tony Wilson (Steve Coogan) mentions an event and says This scene didn't actually make it to the final cut. I'm sure it'll be on the DVD. Earlier on, he kept reminding the audience certain sequences didn't accurately depict what happened to him and his music company, the Hacienda. It is these wildly absurd moments of meta-cinema, in which the characters admit they're part of a fictitious set-up, that make 24 Hour Party People different from other biopics. Another director would probably have told the story of Tony Wilson and his role in Manchester's music business in the late '70s and early '80s in a very traditional way, possibly trying to make the people portrayed look nice. In the hands of Michael Winterbottom, however, Wilson's life becomes a hectic, anarchic tale, filled up to its eyeballs with sex, drugs, rock'n'roll and pitch-black humor.That the movie shouldn't be taken very seriously, despite the fact it's telling s true story, is evident from the beginning, when Wilson introduces himself and states I'm a minor player in my own life story., clearly indicating even he, the narrator/leading man, is there to have a good laugh rather than enlighten viewers. From his messy relationship with women to his struggles to open and subsequently keep the Hacienda, he skips through every scene with the same irony, even when commenting on a friend's death or his own substance abuse.Irony is also present in the film's style, as it is shot with hand-held cameras, like a documentary, even though Wilson repeatedly claims 75% of what you see is partially or completely fabricated. The movie frequently breaks the rules and plays with its own structure, but never for its own sake every single instance of direct interaction with the audience is integral to the events depicted in the film, no matter how weird that may sound. That it gets away with this sort of approach is largely thanks to Coogan's irresistibly smug but captivating work having reportedly based his famous character Alan Partridge on Tony Wilson, he has one hell of a time playing his inspirer, providing a distorted, fascinating point of view on the chaotic events we're shown.After five years, 24 Hour Party People still stands the test of time as one of the most brilliant, audacious British films ever produced. Its narrative technique may seem too bold or far-fetched to some, but those able to enjoy really good cinema should give this riotously funny flick a look. "},{"Title":"Funny, witty and thoroughly enjoyable!","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 24 HR Party People is easily one of the most enjoyable music documentaries I have seen. It plays at times like a Spinal Tap for the Manchester pop scene, but Coogan as Wilson is fantastic.The movie does an excellent job of portraying the fervour, madness and antics of the evolving music scene and Factory Records. Having been a New Order fan (and subsequently a Joy Division fan) since the mid-80s, I relished the opportunity to see it up close.The best bits are the ones about the Happy Mondays, a gang of ne'er-do-wells making incredible pop songs while completely out of their minds on drugs. Their trip to Barbados is priceless.While watching, make sure you turn the real Tony Wilson's commentary on, his asides and notes will make you double over in laughter, and also offer great insight on his work.I unfortunately could not give this higher than an 8 because at times, Wilson name-drops while introducing new people and even a hardcore Mancunian fan like myself was hard-pressed to identify and understand what was going on.Excellent movie! "}{"Title":"Funny and poignant chronicle of irrepressible 1980s Manchester music scene","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A brilliant, original docu-drama about the Post-Punk to Rave music scenes that took hold in 1980s Manchester. It keeps hopping the fence between irony and simple documentary film-making; between affectionate, almost self-effacing ridicule and pathos.It's inescapably personal, put together with sense of love and nostalgia. This is reflected in the British cast, equally split between comics and actors and with a smattering of cameos from the subjects of the documentary. At the centre of this project is Steve Coogan's Tony Wilson (a promoter at the centre of the 'Madchester' scene). Coogan is a comic of the same stable as Baron Sacha Cohen (Ali G), Ricky Gervais (David Brent of the The Office) or the satirist Chris Morris, given to blurring the demarcations between character and comic-actor in order to obfuscate the boundaries of irony. The technique is brilliant in satire and works at least as well here. We are encouraged to look back, unsure as to whether to laugh with or at the content of the documentary. The result is that our only points of reference are the relationships of the characters &#150; detached in this way from the stigma of fashion or, in fact, any association &#150; and the music.At the time of writing this there is a fresh attention to the work of the third-way musicians taking on the 1980s, who rejected the id-rock, if you like, of Punk in search of an artistic social realism &#150; without returning to the operatic contrivances of Prog-Rock. This film serves as a resonant, thorough reference to that period which is now informing a fresh swing from the flatulent, market-driven music at the start of this century. On its own it still stands as a touching and extremely funny examination of the wildly eclectic elements that make for good music/artists and the persistence of fluke being the most important factor that brings them - and us &#150; together. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" i loved it!i learned a lot....and since i've seen it i'm a joy division fan...) just a fun, but serious movie...serious...jeah, because of Ian Curtis...r.i.p., man!my favorite scene is the one where he hangs himself...although it is kinda hard to believe that raves exist now days because of the happy Mondays...it just paints rock history in the making for us...and it ends up looking great...gorgeous camera work...and since it's a musical-movie the soundtrack is great...lots of British humor...there is not much more to say about it...it's simply great and any post-sex_pistols-Manchester music lover should see it.... "},{"Title":"Fan of Music? Be a Fan of This Film","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLE hits you like a quick flick to the forehead. While not a sledgehammer, the film is a roller coaster ride in the ups and downs of the club scene in the UK, following the journey of Tony Wilson (and his Factory Records) and the likes of Joy Division (which is now New Order). Steve Coogan puts in a brilliant performance as the rascal Tony Wilson. There are a couple of what the f!!! moments, but all in all, a quick fast history lesson in the realm of Brit Dance Music.The scene with the pigeons, while supposedly true, is truly horrid, though it made me laugh with pride watching these rats with wings meet their untimely demise.A great film for true enthusiasts, a good film for music lovers, and not recommended for anyone who doesn't know New Order or UK dance scene. "},{"Title":"Damn, I should've been born in 1955 in Manchester","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joy Division.  That's the reason I loved this movie.  But there's something in this movie for everyone.  It's a classic story of sex, drugs (and a LOT of drugs in the Happy Mondays scenes) and plenty of Manchester style rock and roll!  If you're a fan of bands like the aforementioned Happy Mondays, Joy Division, New Order, or the Sex Pistols, then this film is a vessel to give you insight into just how revolutionary those bands, and others of the time, really were.  If you just want to laugh your ass off, then Steve Coogans' GREAT portrayal of Factory Record's main man Tony Wilson will serve you well.  There are so many characters of unbelievable nature in this film it's hard to believe it was real, and this movie is very factual.  Just do some research.  It's up and down emotionally, leaving me laughing uproariously one minute at Martin Hannet, and on the verge of tears the next minute seeing Ian Curtis in that coffin.  But the film's entertainment and insightfulness never ceases. This is a perfect film if you're interested in the scene, and still a great comedy if not.  And if you're just a rave kid who likes strobe lights and lots of drug use in your movies, well you're all set too.  Ten out of ten.  Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Well made comedy with great music","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a gem that apparently breezed right by most people, getting a brief art-house run and little of the considerable attention it deserves. From the opening ``Icarus'' sequence to the end, it confounds expectations, generates big laughs and propels itself with great music. (The soundtrack CD is quite good as well.) Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"'Madchestah' (said while holding nose) at its best.","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Whats this, I hear you ask? A British film that is neither a light romantic comedy, a period drama or a knockabout cockney crime caper? Surely not. Well true believers we have, at last, managed to produce a film that doesn't fit into any one of those three brit flick clichés. And bugger me. Its good!This isnt your traditional &#145;The Brian Wilson Story' style rockumentary. It is equal parts biopic and comedy. As Tony Wilson (played superbly by Steve Coogan) says &#145;I am a bit player in the story of my life'. And its true. His story is, quite frankly, amazing. One of bravery, passion and incredible stupidity. The film starts by illustrating the inanity of Tony's broadcasting career. He Longs for something more. And is given it in the shape of a Sex Pistols gig. There were only 43 people there, but it was a seminal moment in musical history (the last supper had twelve present and look how that turned out). From then on, inspired by a desire to escape the shackles and drudgery of modern music, Tony drives forward and events seem to snowball around him. He inadvertently creates the rave scene, the Manchester gun and drugs culture and, along the way, some of the biggest selling bands on the planet. To see this happening around him, almost in spite of him, is just brilliant.The writing is incredibly funny and the cast is superb. It is a veritable &#145;who's who' of British comedy, Peter Kaye, John Thomson, Simon Pegg, Rob Brydon, the list goes on and are all superb. And a special mention must go to Sean Harris (I) Danny Cunningham, who play Ian Curtis and Shaun Ryder superbly.24 hour party people is an excellent example of what we, as a country, can achieve. Something that's is a bit of an off kilter. As a film and also its subject matter, it demonstrates that we can achieve something a bit unconventional with a bit of inspiration, a bit of perspiration and a whole load of drugs. "},{"Title":"so cool, you couldn't remember a thing","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the early 80's, Factory Records represented the epitome of cool; something unlike anything heard previously. This film lovingly re-creates the exciting, innovative early days of that experiment (Joy Division and Factory), and the ill-advised drug-fueled over-the-top waning days of it (Happy Mondays and the Hacienda) in a faux, broken-fourth-wall documentary style. Steve Coogan is hysterically funny as the fast-talking Tony Wilson, a man so totally enamored with his own b.s. when his final absolution from God comes, seems the guy is pretty familiar to him. He insists he's just a minor player in the Factory saga, so much so, he forgets to tell you about a rather large chunk of his own life, a fact that crops up later in the film, a latter detail that would line a tale told by someone who'd fried their brain out on fast living and chemicals a long time ago. The music is fabulous, the pacing is frenetic. Shot mostly in hand-held digital video, it reinforces the notion of not having a grip on the situation, which is a perfect framework for this story. The beginning credits are very difficult to read, done in some sort of animated photo-chemical wash. Don't bother trying to read them, the headache they give you won't help you enjoy the ride. Much like the perpetually late contributions from Tony's graphic artist, they are at once beautiful...and useless. "},{"Title":"Party Like It's the Eighties","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love 80's music, and so this film was a treat.  Steve Coogan plays the oily Tony Wilson, British TV reporter from Manchester who is inspired by the very first Sex Pistols concert in Manchester in 1976 to promote local new music and start up a dance club called The Factory.  The comic zaniness, a kind of Hitch-Hiker's Guide to early British New Wave (and it's significant that the attendance at the Sex Pistols concert is only...42) is mixed in with a BACKBEAT-like portrayal of the early struggling groups (all, supposedly, inspired by that same Sex Pistols concert) such as Joy Division (later New Order), A Certain Ratio and the Happy Mondays (with Shaun Ryder and Bez).  Sean Harris' portrayal of Ian Curtis (lead singer of Joy Division) sparkles, conveying the stage persona of the tortured, dark young man trying to innovate some tortured, dark Alternative music.  Harris, however, reminded me more of Keir Dullea, Dave Bowman in the film 2001, the look isn't quite right for this role although the Attitude was.In a pivotal scene, Wilson, his wife, and Joy Division listen to a demo tape of She's Lost Control in a small car (which Wilson insists on, implying this is the way the common man listens to music), and the expressions on their faces shows they have made a turning-point from the bland 70's music product.  No one else in the world makes music like this.  The film goes on to show the suicide of Curtis, the remnants of his band remade into the successful New Order, the drug-addled antics of Happy Mondays, and a contention that Tony Wilson's newer club, The Hacienda, was the birthplace of the DJ and Rave scene before it (and Wilson's Factory Records) founder in debt.Altogether, a merry romp through Alternative music history in a SPINAL TAP/HITCH-HIKER'S style. "},{"Title":"Frantic and enjoyable story of Manchester's own Tony Wilson","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not being English, I came to this story mostly out of my love of the many Factory bands, but namely New Order. As probably one of New Order's more loyal American fans, I knew the Factory Record back story pretty well. An naturally, I was very happy to see it (somewhat)  faithfully brought to the screen.Before I level my one big criticism about the movie, I should say that Steve Coogan does an exceptionally good job as Tony Wilson. Having never met and seen very little of the real Wilson, my knowledge of was based mostly on the stories, rumors, and of course the legend of Factory's outrageous leader. In this way, Coogan fills in my perception of Wilson extremely well. His performance is spot on. His voice, manner, and delivery are quintessentially proper English but his words and thoughts are quintessentially a madman, indicative of the whole punk era. Furthermore, Sean Harris does a frighteningly good Ian Curtis. There are times when it seemed like Harris had literally channeled the deceased poet's spirit. The scene where Curtis loses it on stage was tremendously well done. (Good to see that Bernard actually cared about Ian.) Which gets me to my one large complaint about this movie. The first 60 minutes or so are fantastic. The exploration of Joy Division and its troubled Curtis are exceptionally well done. But after Curtis dies, so does the soul of the movie. The movie seems to divert off track. Which in my opinion was not only a cinematic mistake, but a historical one as well.The second act gives an exceptional amount of time to the Happy Mondays. The Happy Mondays may have been a big player in Manchester - but hardly the size and force of Joy Division/New Order. Shaun Ryder is not a poet, he's a freak and a lunatic. The Happy Mondays had a brief moment of genius that was quickly swallowed up by their addictions. This pales in comparison to New Order's achievements, which had continuous moments of genius (until that horrible World in Motion song - sheesh). Hence, the second act of 24 Hour Party People is a disappointment. Not merely because it loses steam and humor, but because it relegates New Order, to a secondary character. We never even see New Order after the 90 minute mark, and barely a mention of Barney, Hooky, Stephen Morris, or New Order's post-joy division addition - Gillian Gilbert. This is sad because the New Order story is really an integral part of Factory. And New Order is itself a remarkable story, if you consider that they lost their lead singer and reformed as an equally powerful band. Something that has almost never been done before. However, I suspect that New Order's lack of presence in the picture says something in and of itself. Despite the movies weak second act, it is still a very enjoyable look into the Manchester madness. Although I am an outsider (an American) who never got to be a part of the Manc scene. Manchester was the first time nerdy white boys, like myself, finally got the fame and attention they deserved. It proved that the white man can produce and generate a tribal sound in our post-industrial, post-modern, information-age sort of way. Where Jazz and soul may be the sound of the African-American experience, Factory Records and the Hacienda were the sound of nerdy white boys experience. Anger, resentment, love, loss, drugs - you name it - we made our feelings known. And to this day, nothing, even the numerous depressing American scenes, have captured the heart of intelligent alienated white boys like Manchester did. All things being equal - I am happy to see the story make the light of day. I am happy to see the spiritual root of Manchester laid bare for the world to examine and of course - laugh at.  "},{"Title":"What an awesome movie!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My favorite club, Respectable Street Cafe, has been playing the coolest music ever, and I've been going there forever (well, forever in my eyes...from age 17-23 and still counting).  I go there and dance on a virtually empty floor with my eyes closed.  Its the one place that I can truly become the music-New Order, Siouxsie and the Banshees, Lords of Acid, The Smiths on and on and on.  So hearing about this movie tickled my interest.It was a little of what I expected and more.  I thought the credits were something worth mentioning (freaking amazing) not to mention using it throughout the movie to introduce bands, locations, times and facts. I love when people break the 4th wall, and what a cool way to have Steve Coogan do it.  How freaking cool to show us all the real guys, and not to mention when Tony Wilson skims over his 2nd wife and kids with her to explain to us that I'm a minor player in my own life story.  This movie is raw with its use of 70's style film (which I think was DV shaded to look old-AWESOME!) and its subject of punk music.  It, just like The Kid Stays in the Picture, is just a tickle though.  One of those movies that makes you say, wow, that was good, but now I've got to get the book.  Good times, good times. "}{"Title":"HOLD STILL!!!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just hold the camera still!  This movie was very hard to watch.  It gave me Blair Witch motion sickness.  That is a shame because it is a very good documentary.  The movie is a documentary about the late 70's, early 80's music scene in Manchester.  The smart format is one I have never seen before.  Actors reenact what happened 20 years ago.  Another actor plays the documentary host.  However there is a funny twist.  All the other actors play actual characters but the host plays a character playing himself in 2002 looking back 20 years.  It is like a movie in a movie.  He actually sits in on the first sex pistols concert and comments on what is going to happen next.  Kind of like he is going back in time and reminiscing with people acting it out for him.  This is how he narrates the whole story. Steve Coogan playing Tony the host is very good.  He thinks of himself as a genius at the most important time in human history.  He deserves an Oscar for such a convincing performance.  Nobody in the Academy will see this picture of course.  Overall this was a great documentary but I could not get by the jumping camera work.  Maybe if I sat further back in the theater. If you can get by the camera this is a skilled documentary. "},{"Title":"unknown pleasures","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  a fascinating look at a seminal moment in rock history -- Manchester in the early '80s. see it all happening, before your eyes the chaos and the inspiration, the drugs and the sex, the hilarity and the senseless deaths. if you're old enough to remember Joy Division, you'll be transported back by the soundtrack; if not, welcome to part of your history. the jittery photography and sudden switches from black & white to sepia tones to, well, '80s-bright colors might be a bit jarring, but you'll lose yourself in this paean to New Wave. "},{"Title":"The very best of intentions!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a great idea to try to recapture on film, the Manchester music scene during the late 1970s to early 90s. Also called the Madchester music scene, it witnessed the birth of punk and the death of acid house. At the top of the music revolution, a philosophical tone presented itself; a sort of music existentialism one might say. Inspired by both the Situationist International and the art of Andy Warhol, a bored TV journalist named Tony Wilson, created Factory Records after catching one of the first Sex Pistols concerts. The company's philosophy centered more on partying than actually working. Their mode of operation in the style of total anarchy; no rules, no organization and no real desire to launch new careers or make money. What a great concept and subject for a movie! The talented Winterbottom attempts to fill the shoes of his characters, thus adapting his filmmaking to Factory Records standards. He shot the film on digital video, his actors equipped with radio mics. Their dialogue is mostly improvisation as they find their way through the scenes, and the credits are so cryptic and psychedelic, they are virtually unreadable. Well, guess what? Manchester is not Madchester anymore, the Sex Pistols are gone, and film is not the medium for a musical improv. Music back then had something to say or to scream rather, about life, the world, or better yet, how to approach both life and music. Winterbottom doesn't appear to have anything at all to say about this subject, not even through his characters. Wilson (the real one) confesses that he has no talent but to hang out with geniuses, and we feel it throughout the film. His character starts out as a bored journalist, and remains a boring music promoter. Wilson also says he tried to convince the filmmakers to make the film about the real geniuses, the musicians, but that they refused. Big mistake, because all this energy, passion and philosophy of life doesn't come through in the film, making it...well, boring. Even the idea of people partying for 24 hours is absent. The music was intellectual and emotional. The film is neit "},{"Title":"The Factory Story","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 24 Hour Party People is not the story of the Madchester scene - the ecstasy fuelled, punk attitude led hybrid of classic rock and dance vibes that swept the country back in the late 80's to early 90's. It is the story of one man's vision and love of music and of two of the bands he worked with and the label he set up. Yes, before we were swamped with the bland production line, the granny pleasing music of the boy bands and Pop Idol, music fans used to listen to real musicians!!! People with vision, people who had attitude and energy. This is the story of two of these bands; Joy Division and the Happy Mondays. The film starts with Tony Wilson's discovery of punk and his relationship with Joy Division the seminal early 80's band who produced such classics as Transmission and Love Will Tear Us Apart. Oddly the film doesn't emphasise enough just how important Joy Division really were or their successful metamorphosis into the incredibly popular New Order (who with tracks like Confusion probably laid the foundations for the dance / rock hybrid that was to grow in Manchester a few years later). This is a portrait of music as a way of life and it is also a believable portrait of England. Its not a perfect film but it is an exciting one and one which will have many 30 somethings reliving the heady days of their youth again. Sorted!! "},{"Title":"Sure, it's a mess, but WHAT a mess!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler warning... Great stuff.  A f**ked up, drugged-up, messed-up, made-up mess.  Does it tell the truth?  Who cares?  Is this what Manchester was like in them days?  Only those who lived it can tell us.  And so many of them are dead or have had their short-term memories destroyed, so they're no f**king use anyway. Thirty grand for a desk.  In this day and age.   Steve Coogan as Anthony H. Partridge.  Did you see what I did there?  I made a brilliantly witty comment on how Coogan plays Wilson pretty much like Partridge.  Do you see?  But it's not that simple.  Wilson is a subtly different figure, more sure of himself in some ways, certainly able to crush dissent with a pretentious quote or reference at any time of the day or night.  Like Partridge, though, he is vulnerable and he wants desperately to be liked.   But hey, enough of my yakkin'.  Did you see what I did there?  I quoted from seminal rockumentary This is Spinal Tap.  24 Hour Party People is the first film since Tap to celebrate and destroy the rock and roll myth in equal measure and with such great success.   24HPP is a great movie.  It's not a great film.  It's not Citizen f**king Cane (Citizen Caned?).  But thankfully, it's not Four Bridgets and a Notting Hill either.  It lives.  It screams, burps, farts, laughs, snorts, comes, punches, sneers and spits from the screen into your grateful face.  Christ, I wish I'd written that.  I did?  Great! 24HPP is cool as f**k. "},{"Title":"Faith in British film re-established...","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is not very often that true originals are made.  It is much more rare that one comes from British shores.  But you categorically will not have seen a film like '24 Hour Party People' before.Watching the film confirmed my suspicion that Michael Winterbottom is the most interesting, innovative and eclectic filmmaker working in Britain today.  Here he takes on the story of Tony Wilson and Madchester (a far cry from Thomas Hardy adaptations), employing the shaky DV that served him so well in 'Wonderland'.  Just as that magnificent film was an affectionate paean to London and Londoners, '24 Hour Party People' is the same to Manchester and Mancunians.Wilson is the perfect character for the extraordinary talents of Steve Coogan; the kind of w****r-you-can't-quite-hate that British television audiences will be familiar with.  Coogan plays him with just the right balance of affection and irony, as Wilson stumbles his way from disillusioned TV presenter to maker and breaker of Factory Records and pioneering rave club The Hacienda.Indeed the film is a masterclass of both casting and acting.  Some impersonations of British indie music icons are almost scary, especially Sean Harris as Joy Division's Ian Curtis.  The allowance of improvisation and Winterbottom's natural handheld camera work give the film an almost documentary feel, but at the same time there is an important true (though probably massively contrived) story to be told.There is a familiarity in '24 Hour Party People' with its romanticism and sense of nostalgia for a particular period in time and place, but what makes this film markedly different from, say 'Almost Famous' (or 'Spinal Tap' at the other extreme), are its nuances; its moments of surrealism, its Woody Allenesque camera engagement and its Godardian self-reference.Whilst Sacha Baron Cohen is off p***ing about with willies, faeces and punani, Britain's real creative juices are here, flowing together to produce what Tony Wilson would probably call the ultimate postmodern experience.  "},{"Title":"Call the cops!!!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Genius. Not a word I use sparingly. But here it kind of just... fits.That said, I was very dubious about how 24 Hour Party People would turn out. How could they find an actor who could mimic Shaun Ryder's bloated, smack-addled cheek; or Ian Curtis' contorted, scowling intensity? How could Michael Winterbottom, responsible for one of the worst films this reviewer has ever seen (the offensively bad 'I Want You'), capture the essence of a story so shrouded in loved-up myth and self-aggrandising nostalgia that no two people tell the same version about it? I would say I don't know how, but I think I do. Firstly, employ a bunch of actors who have lived through the period and who have so little acting experience and savvy that they are prepared to indulge in a little 'method' acting (or 'methadone acting' in Danny Cunningham's case). Secondly, allot a tidy portion of the film's production budget for pills, grass and powder (thrills and bellyaches optional). Third, beat the scriptwriter to death with a large haddock. Fourth, just encourage everyone to ad lib and help themselves to the aforementioned 'rider'. Fifth, don't stick to the facts and base each sequence loosely around whatever the main protagonists can remember about Factory Records and the Hacienda.I was also very sceptical about the use of digital video, as most films I've seen that use it just look like bad soap operas. The acting and scripting of Spike Lee's crummy Bamboozled had all the authenticity of a school play and DV only seemed to highlight this fact. Likewise the Dogme movies and Series 7. If the film doesn't 'look' and 'feel' authentic then DV only makes it seem less real. But 24 Hour Party People employs such a brilliant use of straight up DV framing and extraordinary directorial flourishes (the poisoned pigeons scene is a classic) that it may be described as a revelation in cinematography. Considering so much of the movie was improvised, the acting is amazing. Everybody manages to BE the person they're taking on perfectly. The Ryder brothers are utterly convincing. Sean Harris as Ian Curtis is a astonishing (although the town cryer epitaph scene doesn't really work) and Paddy Considine again marks himself out as one of the charismatic British actors around. The only person who lets the side down is Ralf Little as Peter Hook - the majority of his surly and stroppy performance has obviously been left on the cutting room floor.Some people have expressed surprise at just how good Steve Coogan's impression of Tony Wilson is, but when you consider that Alan Partirdge was essentially an amalgam of a host of bad television presenters (Wilson being his key point of reference) his uncanny resemblance becomes easier to understand.    Would someone who has no interest in the Madchester scene get anything out of this film? Yes. The live music and club scenes are the best I've EVER seen in any film about music (including any music documentary), and if you like the Vic and Bob-ish quirk of the Royal Tennenbaums, then you'll find this film hysterical. How many marks out of ten... go on then, 24.  "},{"Title":"scandalous","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i was appalled by this movie. i feel it is encouraging people to lead a ruthless,  shambolic, hedonistic lifestyle. Long live Bernard Cribbins "},{"Title":"And on the 7th day God created Madchester","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An anarchic portrayal of the Manchester music scene from the late 70s & punk to the acid fuelled dance phenomenon of the late 80s/early 90s. The film centres on the maverick tv presenter Tony Wilson, who, with Alan Eramus, set up Factory records, the pioneering independent Manchester label.The film seems to be in two parts. The first half chronicles the influence punk had on Wilson and his own influence in establishing one of the great British bands, Joy Division. Sean Harris gives an excellent, almost eerie, performance as Ian Curtis, the band's highly sensitive lead singer.  The re-enactment of gigs, Curtis's strange jerky dance are all captured genuinely and this is one of the film's strengths.The scenes following Curtis' death are uncomfortable & slightly black a town crier yodelling news about his suicide, Curtis' grandmother telling Wilson how much she likes him as a tv presenter at Curtis' funeral and even Wilson's rather strange, typical pseudo-intellectual remark to a future biographer that the singer was the musical equivalent of Che Geuvara. But just when you think the film is bordering on poor taste, it then has its most affecting moment as Wilson, usually all pretentious bluff & bluster, says a final tender goodbye to his friend at the open coffin.The second half moves onto Wilson & co's initially unsuccessful entry into the club scene with the opening of the Hacienda before lurching into the anarchic self-destruction of the Happy Mondays. The film becomes almost farcical as we see Wilson, the Cambridge intellectual, out of his depth with these Manc chancers as they practically bankrupt Factory after blowing £200k, supposed to be spent recording the album designed to save Factory, on a drug addled binge in the Caribbean. Wilson's (Coogan) reaction as he plays the tape with the new album,  only to find it has no vocals, is great.There's an element of sadness to the end as it charts the end of era for Manchester music; the end of Factory, a label that competed with London and which gave its artists creative liberty; and the end of the Hacienda, a dance venue which put Manchester on the world music map.The film is a mix of drama documentary; I particularly liked the opening scene at the Lesser Free Trade Hall, where at a seminal Sex Pistols gig, Wilson tells us about who was in the paltry audience of 42; practically all the great & the good of Manchester music.It's also a film about the blurring between truth & myth. I was particularly pleased to see the real Howard Devoto (Buzzcocks and the great underrated Magazine) appear suddenly to challenge Wilson's story about catching him & Wilson's first wife 'in flagrante'. The film's not perfect, some would describe it as a mess, but there's no disputing its energy and range of memorable characters (Paddy Considine as Rob Gretton, Andy Serkis as Martin 'Zero' Hannett); it's certainly a British film that's come at the right time and makes a refreshing change from the staples of gangsters, period dramas, & Richard Curtis-land. It's a music film that, on the whole, works and it also has plenty of good humour.All in all, a great tribute to a great city and the bands it has spawned. "},{"Title":"better than I expected","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was a bit too young to embrace the Manchester scene at the time (being still at school), in terms of the drugs and the politics. I was still aware of what was going on in terms of the music though. Hence I was keen to see this film and see what I might have missed. It's an OK film, the portrayal of the various bands appear accurate, the atmosphere and mood of the times seems spot on also. Steve Coogan is still annoying; the soundtrack is excellent; and ultimately it all won't mean a damn thing to anyone that has no knowledge of this small cultural episode in British pop history. "}{"Title":"imaginative portrayal of the Manchester scene","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After the fairly mundane Parole Officer it's great to see Steve Coogan living up to his talents on the big screen. He carries the film, though most of the other characters from Ian Curtis to Shaun Ryder are spot on too.I'm not sure if people who didn't like the music would find it interesting, but I loved it! It took me back to the early days(I too remember seeing Joy Division play second on the bill in front of 18 people) and captured the spirit of the times very accurately.The direction and documentary film were perfect and I would go as far as to say it is the most innovative, original British film since Trainspotting "},{"Title":"Moving and inspirational","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not since Schindler's List have I had such a physical reaction to a film. From thinking I would wet myself laughing, to trying not to cry for Ian Curtis, and then through to walking outside and having so much pent up energy that whatever you do next will go wrong, but be right.It was like a gig which you never want to end, when you say I have to do this, go home and write music, and it sounds like what you just heard, but not because you are copying - just that you have managed to step into the same mindset as the artists youve just heard. You produce a stream of consciousness and never quite manage to get that vibe again.It was like a club where everyone is beautiful and looking at you; where they're all in slow motion and you get to choose what to help yourself to. In the end you don't need much - it's just that you could have anything - and that is all you need to know.It was an inspiration. Yet desparately sad. Something that you cannot just observe, you have to go out and do stuff, even though you dont know what you will do or why you are doing it. "},{"Title":"the greatest story never told","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My visit to the pictures to see '24 hour party people' was a surrendipitous venture to say the least.  Confounding all my expectations I found myself warming to a film I had not really gone to see. The film I had in fact gone to see was the story of Joy Division, New Order and The Happy Mondays (3 of my favourite bands) but what i actually ended up seeing was 'The Legend Of Tony WilsonThe Greatest story never told', a film in truth i would never have anticipated actually enjoying before now. Charting the rise and fall of seminal Manchester record label 'Factory', from it's chaotic inception in the heyday of 70's Punk to it's equally chaotic implosion during the dying days of Acid House in the early 1990's the film chooses Wilson as it's central focus rather than the bands he signed.  A minor stumbling block really in a film that bristles with style and vigour courtesy of Frank Cottrell Boyces' irreverent script and Michael Winterbottom's flashy direction. Steve Coogan is quite simply flawless in the central role and turns in a performance that is without doubt his best work since the TV classic 'Paul Calf's Video Diary'.  The rather lazy reviews recently describing his performance as simply Coogan plays Alan Partridge playing Wilson do him a disservice as I felt his portrayal was far more subtle and also poignant than a mere caricature. Making frequent comic asides (docmentary style) to the camera, Coogan imbues Wilson with a sympathy and naive charm that anybody familiar with Wilsons' pretentious and pompous TV image would find hard to believe.  It is the fact that for a man at the epicentre of so many important musical happenings that he never fits in which makes him so interesting and the movie portrays him as a Middle class smart alec who wants to be the Popular hero of the masses but also be taken seriously by his more intellectual peers and ends up being perceived as a clown by both.   It's not all great.  The narrative is occasionally incoherent as so many characters wander in and out of the story with no explanation and the tendency towards nudge nudge wink wink in jokes, although amusing created a distance between me and the characters which I felt couldn't be bridged by any degree of jazzy camerawork.  Despite the fact that most of the Factory Luminaries ie. Ian Curtis, Shaun Ryder, Bernard Sumner are treated as rather peripheral characters in a movie that dwells on the business side of things I do feel special mention should go to Paddy Considine as the irascible Rob Gretton and Andy Serkis as a thoroughly barmy Martin Hannett (a performance so splendidly eccentric i would have liked to have seen more of him) who provide solid support for Coogan. It is however Coogan's film and it is overall a pleasing blend of myth and reality that creates a tale which is as flawed a masterpiece as Factory records was itself. "},{"Title":"overview of performances story and their success","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Movie begins with a typical Coogan 'sketch' straight from the Partridge stable, ideal for Coogan fans, ... non fans shouldn't bother with this film, Madchester freaks or not. It's a comedy and I was a little weary at first but the atmosphere is right and it just manages not to be over performed and Coogan just manages not to be 'too' Coogan. The casting is great, the Barney Sumner, Ian Curtis and Shaun Ryder characters fit the bill even though the change in Shaun from loveable rogue to a bit of a git doesn't really work. The style fits the script and performance perfectly, using original gig and cine style footage along side a documentary style free camera, making the film quite intimate,...the closest many of us would ever get to seeing the Hacienda in all its glory.....the chart of only Factory acts limits the soundtrack and scope of the scene portrayed in the movie but Joy Division, New order and the Mondays makes it a must see for any fan of modern music over the last 20 years. The success ot the film lies in the fact that for all of it's half truth and and myth making, the viewer leaves the cinema knowing that factory and the hacienda was mis-managed badly run.. and that this is what brought it to it's knees, but you also realise that if this 'mad' atmosphere hadn't existed then the music wouldn't have been around, no 7 minute classic singles no 'E' feuled cross over, no dance music as we know it today, no Oasis, 'Some Might Say' a good thing, (pun intended), and you know that it's weakness was it's strength and ultimately vice versa, but the film as the music, a true honest portrayal of the time and scene, not without a laugh too. "},{"Title":"Yer twistin mi melon man!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure how much enjoyment anyone who wasn't a fan or wasn't there would get out of this film, but if you loved these bands, these people, the scenes, Factory, the Hacienda and even Tony Wilson, then this is a must-see for you. I was pleased when I heard that Michael Winterbottom was going to be making it, because he's about the best British film maker around at the moment, and he was also a Factory fan so I was sure he'd want to make a good job of it. He has. I doubt if anyone could've done it any better, and it does focus rightly on the 2 most important bands - Joy Division and Happy Mondays. I'm sure some people will be a little surprised and disappointed that there's not much New Order in it, but although they made some fine records, they were'nt really as important to the Manchester scene - apart from funding the Hacienda - as JD and HM were. The film is well paced and never gets boring, but, although it's amusing, it is not really as funny as some reviewers would have you think. Steve Coogan carries it throughout as a caricature Tony Wilson. Sean Harris does a good Ian Curtis, Paddy Considine a very convincing Rob Gretton, Danny Cunningham a passable Shaun Ryder, while Chris Coghill does a flawless Bez dance! The specially re-made Hacienda looks the real deal, especially when its full to the rafters when the acid house scene takes off. It struggles a bit early on with its portrayal of Joy Divison, but it's tone is perfectly pitched for the lunacy of the Happy Mondays and the drugs mayhem that brought that band, the club and ultimately the record label to an end. But it was a great ride while it lasted, and this film makes a brave stab at revisiting the brilliance that was Madchester. "},{"Title":"Mad Ferrits","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The very first scene of this movie shows Steve Coogan on a hang-glider heading towards a fence, screaming oh no! barbed wire and you immediately think you are going to be treated to 2 hours of Alan Partridge! Thankfully, Coogans acting ability soon makes you forget the Anglican hero, and makes you ponder the life of the Mancunian legend that is Anthony H. WIlson.I work in Manchester just now, and every day I pass the hole in the ground that used to be the Hacienda, and to be fair I knew most of the story before going to see this film. I knew all about Joy Division and the tragic Ian Curtis, who later became New Order; I knew all about the Happy Mondays and how their antics in the Caribbean eventually signalled the end of factory records, but the way the story is played out on screen brings a freshness and a humour to what is ultimately a series of disasters.A lot of the credit for this must go to the cast as well as the director. As I mentioned before, Coogan is fantastic, and everyone from John Thompson, John Simm (an excellent Bernard Sumner) and Peter Kaye in bit parts were immense. But a special mention must go to the actor who portrayed Ian Curtis - Fantastic!!Anyway, If you're mad for it, go see, and see what Madchester was like pre-oasis.Rave On!TCBUZZ "},{"Title":"I'm being post-modern before it was fashionable.","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 24 Hour Party People is directed by Michael Winterbottom and written by Frank Cottrell Boyce. It stars Steve Coogan, Paddy Considine, Shirley Henderson and Andy Serkis.Film charts the rise and fall of Tony Wilson's (Coogan) impact on the Manchester music scene from 1976-1992. Musically it encompasses the Punk Rock explosion, Post Punk, Madchester, the birth of Factory Records and The Haçienda Nightclub. Main bands featured as narrative threads are Joy Division and The Happy Mondays. Print the legend.There's nothing like it, in music based movies that is, 24 Hour Party People is a collage of styles and genres, part biography, part comedy drama, part rock mockumentary, part tragedy and part fantasy, with the latter a little galling to those in the know since the film often plays fast and loose with the truth. But this almost chaotic approach by Winterbottom is perfect for this most important and influential era of music. There is a bustling energy throughout the picture, a chic coolness coming out of the hand held digital camera, the music is excellence unbound, while it more often than not is great fun, even as dark passages flit in and out-making thumping emotional beats-there's a causticism involved. Wilson was a colourful impresario, and well worth the time afforded him here. The performances vary from good to great, with Coogan at the centre a pure delight as he not only acts out the part of Wilson, but also narrates and breaks the fourth wall to ensure viewers are in the know about the players and situations. While it's also fun to play spot the cameo star as well.Martin Hannett Too Big For Death.As a big fan of New Order I find the only thing that irks greatly with the film is the short amount of camera time and credence given to the band. The Joy Division years are covered greatly, and rightly so, but New Order's prominent impact on the era, and that on Factory Records and The Hacienda, is relegated to tiny visual snippets and snatches of narration. Someone in the producing department has failed to grasp that they were the most important band of the time in relation to Tony Wilson and The Hacienda years. The other to get short shrift is producer Martin Hannett, here expertly portrayed by Andy Serkis. Early in the piece Coogan's Wilson tells us that Martin Hannett is one of only two geniuses to feature in this story, yet we never get to know about it. It's right that Hannett's sad and tragic demise is followed from beginning to end, but where's the glory of his producing skills? Without him Joy Division and New Order would have been just good bands instead of great bands, this really needed to be pressed home to the unitiated.C'est la vie, I'm sure there are many other fans of movers who were prominent around this time who feel they deserved narrative time. So we can't have it all eh? Top film regardless, fascinatingly constructed and with an astute handle on the time, it's essential viewing for British music fans. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not as captivating as I thought","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film recounts the birth of a record label in Manchester, and its journey to lift Manchester as the place to be for modern music.Initially I found 24 Hour Party People quite boring. It was probably because I was not familiar with the music of Joy Division, New Order, or the Happy Mondays. Hence, the film becomes a quasi documentary of a businessman and his drug fuelled musicians who live hedonistic lives. As I do not know the background history, I find the plot not so interesting or captivating.The parties in 24 Hour Party People are not the sort of parties I had in mind when I watched this film. Maybe this led to the disappointment I felt. "},{"Title":"Brilliant mockumentary","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a brilliant movie about a brilliant time in music history. I'm too young to really remember Madchester, but have subsequently got into electronic music and adore the Joy Division/New Order sound.I loved this movie, because I love the music and I knew a bit of the history of the bands, the Factory story and the Hacienda. Not sure how accessible it would be to people who don't have any knowledge of this history, as some of the funnier moments rely on in-jokes.Due to the tragic nature of some of the story, knowing the history of the bands can be a burden, e.g. the suicide of Ian Curtis. The scene preceding it where he goes to talk to Wilson's first wife is horrible to watch, because you know what he does next and can sense his desperation. Sean Harris should've got some sort of award for this role, he plays Curtis to perfection.The madness of the Mondays is hilariously captured and you wonder how they managed to produce any music at all, let alone the great stuff they did. The DVD could be used as a powerful anti-drugs message too, as the interview with Shaun Ryder on the 2nd disc is unnerving to watch - poor bugger's been so shattered by drug use that he can barely string a sentence together and can't sit still (is constantly jiggling about).But the movie chooses to follow Wilson's journey through this time period, and the bands are secondary. Given that the easiest way to look at this period is to look for the central connecting factor Factory Records, and build the story around that, this makes sense. I also liked the way it took the Chopper Reid approach to history (ie. Never let the truth get in the way of a good yarn) and how it openly acknowledges that this is no true account of what happened, but a story created around the persona of Tony Wilson (the I definitely don't remember this happening scene is classic!) In a way, this is appropriate - Factory is a fairytale, and was run on fairly ridiculous principles of management where art and not profit was the bottom line (how much better the world of music would be if this approach actually worked!!) But fairy tales don't work in real life, unfortunately, and 24HPP shows what happens when the arse falls out of the fairytale quite well.Also like the God cameo (You're right! I usually am.)As far as criticism of the dialogue goes (the I couldn't understand the accents line) - get over it! Not everyone speaks Yankee English, or BBC English, and the regional accents of the world are what makes the English language interesting. If you have problems understanding Mancunian speak (or any other Northern dialect), unplug your ears of prejudice and listen. It's not hard to understand. And if it is... well, that's what subtitles are for on DVDs!! "},{"Title":"All time greatest film.","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a must see for all music fans. It tells the story of the greatest and most influential band of modern history. New Order/Joy Division. Their start in the Manchester underground to world fame. This biopic shows more than just NO, happy Monday and ACR are also showcased. But its all about New Order. From the tragedy of Curtis to the happy days of FAC 51. What it doesn't show is just how influential New Order are. As 2005 has produced so many artist all claiming their influences to be from NO. Killers, Bloc Party, Editors, Intepol, Scissor Sisters to name a few. Awesome, really captures the Madchester scene! Cracking pace. Coogan is on fire, plays Wilson to a comedy tee! All his mistakes are done with perfect comedy timing as he does so well. Full of loads of famous faces from music and comedy world. But all with close links. John Thompson from Cold Feet who has been one of Coogans comedy partners for years. Peter Kay, also from up north, Coogans dad used to teach Kay metal work at school. Its a small world. But thats what the film is all about. Manchester, a community. Its an education, a comedy and a music gig all in one film. My all time favourite film, make sure you see it. Banging! Get it! "}{"Title":"Hallelujah","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" How do you fit sixteen years of music onto just less than two hours of film? This is the challenge that screenwriter Frank Cottrell Boyce (Hilary and Jackie) and director Michael Winterbottom (Wonderland) faced in bringing 24 Hour Party People to the screen. Covering the Manchester music scene from the rise of Punk in 1976 to the fall of Acid in 1992, the filmmakers focus on the man at the forefront of the two movements Factory Records founder, Tony Wilson (portrayed brilliantly with the humor and acumen of the actual Wilson by comedian Steve Coogan). Two bands bookend the years covered in the film Joy Division and The Happy Mondays, respectively, and their lead singers and songwriters provide the drama which makes the story worth telling, Division's Ian Curtis and the Monday's Shaun Ryder. And it was Mr. Wilson who introduced them both to Manchester and the world. So specific is the information given, and so precisely executed is Winterbottom's reconstruction (utilizing several key players, who witnessed and survived the events of the film, assisting with various aspects of the film-making - including the real Tony Wilson - both behind and in front of the camera), that you may question sometimes if you are watching a serious documentary with vintage footage or a comical fictionalized cinematic recreation. In actuality ...People is a perfect blend of comedy and drama; of ecstasy and poignancy; of fact and fiction. Exactly how much fiction is open to debate by some of those involved but, as Wilson reminds us, When given the choice, print the legend. "},{"Title":"Wonderful if you are/were a fan of the bands and/or the era","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Being a fan of many bands who thrived during the Manchnunian music scene, I feel that this film granted me a brilliant visual representation, if you will, of some people whom, I deem some of the greatest musicians of recent times. For example, for me, Joy Division's original singer, Ian Curtis is portrayed in a brilliant and fascinating way. (Spoiler Alert) The sadness but also awe evoked in me after witnessing his suicide scene was immense. (end of spoiler) Well done to the director on understanding the characters so well and, more importantly, on portraying them in such original, intelligent ways. This film could have been very boring and sickly-cliched but, instead it comes as a breath of fresh air to me; the paragliding and pigeon scenes are enough to justify such a comment. Many of the actors were specifically chosen to play musical figures with whom they shared resemblances. Even some famous musicians themselves appeared in the film. Yes, this movie is designed to appeal to the cult fan of Indie and original punk music. Don't expect to be able to enjoy the film, really, without a prior knowledge of the musical movements of the 70s, 80s and 90s. This is an homage to an uncanny era defined by artistic mastery, yet marred by excess.The music is cleverly chosen; being a mix of hit songs, classics and unknown tunes, some of which are brilliant (anything by Joy Division) and others of which are awful, in my opinion, that jazz song by ...Ratio, a band even I had not yet heard of prior to viewing the film. In fact, if you would like to brush up on your British musical knowledge but also of how to create a good documentary, watch this film- at least to experience the brilliance of Steve Coogan mixed with some of the best popular music ever written! Also, download Love Will Tear US Apart by Joy Division, it may change your life. My rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was fascinated by this movie. The mood, atmosphere and characters were hypnotic and I found myself totally engrossed with the film. The acting was superb and the music excellent.Only the English can deliver a movie, that, although may not be everyones cup of tea, draws the viewer in and allows them to experience what life must have been like in that period.Sean Harris is brilliant as Ian Curtis and the concert scenes with Joy Division was a highlight.Wish there was more on The Smiths though. Highly recommended.Chris "},{"Title":"Passion, energy, and rock n roll","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you are nostalgic for the British post-punk rock scene of the late 1970s and early 1980s and want to learn more about bands like Joy Division, Happy Mondays, and New Order, Michael Winterbottom's 24 Hour Party People is your ticket. Shot on digital video, Party People is a wild and often dizzying ride that has passion and energy, great music, and playful humor (along with the obligatory f words, drugs, and sex). The soundtrack features bands such as the Sex Pistols, Joy Division, the Clash, New Order, and A Certain Ration, music that keeps the energy popping from start to finish. Part documentary and part fiction, the film is narrated by impresario Tony Wilson (Steve Coogan) who was the driving force behind Factory Records, an indie label that played an important role in the spread of the new wave sound, overseeing early works of such bands as Big in Japan, Echo and the Bunnymen, and Cabaret Voltaire.The film is not a comprehensive look at the total Manchester scene that included such great bands as The Charlatans, Stone Roses, Inspiral Carpets, and The Smiths but concentrates solely on the impact of Wilson and Factory Records. It follows Wilson as he goes from promoting Friday night sessions at the Factory Club to opening the birthplace of rave, the famous Hacienda Dance Club, while keeping his day job as a TV reporter and host for a local TV station in Manchester. After a hilarious opening sequence showing journalist Wilson hang gliding, the film turns to a Sex Pistols concert in 1976 where actual footage of the Pistols is interspersed with actors performing the songs. Although only 40 people attended, Wilson had a vision of what was possible and the small number in attendance didn't faze him, How many people, he asks, were at the Last Supper?Wilson persuades his station to televise a Sex Pistols performance, an event that led to Wilson being asked to manage several of Manchester's rock groups. We soon meet Ian Curtis (Sean Harris), lead singer for the band Joy Division, his producer Martin Hannett (Andy Serkis) and Happy Monday's singer Shaun Ryder (Danny Cunningham), bands that helped put Factory Records on the map. Harris conveys Curtis' electric energy and manic stage personality while performing great Joy Division songs such as Love Will Tear us Apart and Atmosphere. Unable to come to terms with growing fame and faced with crippling epileptic seizures and an impending divorce, Curtis committed suicide on May 18, 1980 at age 23, a sad end for a consummate artist whose personal agony translated into music of sublime melancholy.Wilson is often exasperating, throwing around words like semiotics and postmodernism, but his good-natured humor asserts itself as when he talks directly to the camera saying you won't see this scene now but it might turn up on the DVD outtakes. In spite of all the absurdity, Wilson comes across as a man of integrity who was offered a large sum of money for his empire but refused, explaining to the audience that he avoided selling out by never acquiring anything worth selling. Personally, I would have liked to have less laughs and a bit more information about these musicians, what kept them going or, as in the case of Curtis, what drove them to an early death. 24 Hour Party People, however, is not an in-depth character study but a fast-paced, offbeat paean to rock 'n' roll history, the people who made it, and the music we still remember.  "},{"Title":"F**king great","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved it. From the opening scene of Tony Wilson trying Hang Gliding to the demise of Factory Records and it's nightclub The Hacienda, 24 Hour Party People is engrossing, often humorous, and always entertaining.The main story revolves around the rise and fall of Factory records the record company who brought punk and dance into the mainstream (with artists ranging from Joy Division to New Order), and the people who formed the company. The film also contains cameos from the band members (as well as actors who play them), and provides an interesting view of the underground music scene of Manchester in the late 70's and throughout the 80's. If your an 80's music lover, this movie's for you. "},{"Title":"Good fun and good music make a good film","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everything about 24 Hour Party People is good enough to keep you interested.  It's really the epitome of the independent film - take a unconventional storytelling approach to a neglected subject, get some good actors and improvise a little.  The result in this case is wholly satisfying.  Sure, I had some minor complaints - the titles are impossible to read and some parts of the story get passed over so fast you get confused.  But this film more than makes up for those drawbacks in good acting, spirited direction and of course music.The film is made in the spirit of the culture it is documenting - artistically ambitious, loose and willing to take chances to be different.  To this end it makes use of a great script device - every so often the character of music impresario/TV host Tony Wilson (played brilliantly by Steve Coogan) will pause in the middle of a scene and explain to the camera what's going on, who's involved, and why it's important.  In another film this might seem precious and contrived but here it works beautifully.  The film begins with Wilson attending the Sex Pistols first performance in Manchester in the late 70's (along with a lowly forty or so other people, many of whom figure into the story later) and ends up with the closing of his renowned Hacienda club in the late 80's.  In between we get the birth and death of Joy Division, the rise of New Order, money, sex, drugs, dancing, Factory Records, the death of several thousand pigeons, The Happy Mondays, record contracts, drugs, tours, shootouts, divorces, drugs, marriages, the birth of rave culture and more drugs.  Everyone involved does a great job, and by the time it's over you will have had a great time and possibly a much better understanding of a very interesting time in musical (and social) history.  "},{"Title":"Fun, but no soul","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One is first tempted to greet 'Twenty Four Hour Party People', the story of the rise and fall of Factory Records, with a groan on discovering that 80s (and even 90s) nostalgia is already with us. But at least the film is made by Michael Winterbottom whose movies, some brilliant and some not, at least have the merit that each one is quite unlike the others. Which means that some freshness is virtually guaranteed, and Witnerbottom tells this story in an irreverent, self-knowing fashion that is at least lively, although it does sometimes give the film the feel of low-budget sitcom. This feeling is also enhanced by the casting of comedian Steve Coogan, an actor of little depth, as Factory Records boss Tony Wilson. Like Coogan's famous alter-ego Alan Partridge Wilson was a TV presenter, but it is hard to tell whether he was quite as similar to Partridge as this film suggests, or if Coogan simply isn't up to the job of playing a different character. And the decision to tell the story of Wilson also seems strange he was not a kid whose life was transformed, or a singer whose songs were sung the world over he even kept his day job, and there's little underlying character development in his story. Rationally, this isn't a very good film, although it's actually quite watchable, and all the more so if you have lived through this era, and listened to the music as it was new. But there are lots of potentially interesting stories, like the death of Ian Curtis, or the wave of idealism that briefly flourished with the coming of Ecstasy, which could have been covered with a bit more feeling. This movie is fun, but perhaps also a wasted opportunity; others who revisit this era will surely have more to say. "},{"Title":"Film making doesn't get more creative than this","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The makers of this film decided the best way to make a film about the unconventional life of Tony Wilson was to make an unconventional film. Crazy things happen in this film, like Steve Coogan breaking character and talking right to the camera about the real Tony Wilson, and things like that. It's very uneven but that is to its strength, and it's consistently engrossing from start to end. The film is hysterically funny, and had me doubled over at the outrageous antics of some of the musicians employed by Factory Records.This film is for people who love raves and techno and want to know where it all began. "},{"Title":"Lost my interest after Curtis' death","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So, the first half of this film deals primarily with the formation and dissolution of Joy Division, probably one the 3 most important rock bands of the past 25 years.  Really interesting stuff--particularly the character of Martin Hannett (played by Gollum himself, Andy Serkis), the psychotic music producer who revolutionized modern music.  Also a great performance by the guy who played Ian Curtis--the suicide scene was exceptionally done.  All in all, very well acted and directed.The problem with the second half is that the music just isn't as good.  Not that there wasn't great music being created after the end of Joy Division.  The script just doesn't seem to want to focus on it.  Why, for example, do we get all of two minutes spent talking about New Order, and an entire half-hour section of the film devoted to Happy Mondays?  I mean, Happy Mondays was a pretty good band, but there is definitely a reason that you are able to choose Bizarre Love Triange on half the jukeboxes in New York, but will be pretty hard pressed to find a single track from Mondays.Maybe I just don't like raves. "},{"Title":"Manchester, here I come!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Excellent pseudo-documentary about the emergence of the Hacienda club in Manchester, England, grounded by a superb performance by Steve Coogan (who was actually born in Manchester),  playing club-creator Tony Wilson. The movie deftly shows what happens when a club is run by ARTISTS rather than businessmen. Could have been shortened by perhaps a good half hour but other than that, a solid effort.  I'm on the plane now. "}{"Title":"Manchester Music Scene Perfectly Evoked","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I will start off by saying that if you're American then don't bother watching the film unless you're a big New Order/Joy Division/Factory Records fan otherwise your arrogant, narrow minded small town sensibilities will be pricked.I grew up in Manchester for a while and was at UMIST in mid 80's (New Order came out with Low Life whilst I was there and it changed my musical tastes overnight) and this film really evokes the atmosphere of Manchester and it's music.I'll readily admit it's not going to be a film that's easily understood if you're from Wichita Falls and only listen to Guns & Roses/Patsy Cline/Shania Twain...A fan's film really and therefore will appeal most to those into the music and the personalities of the place the film's talking about. "},{"Title":"A superb film","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's very weird to find real innovation on modern movies.And more weird is when that innovation is on the movie's narrative style.For that things,I consider 24 hour party people,a fantastic advance in movies,and I'm not talking about edition or photography.I'm talking about that the combination between comedy,drama and styles make it unique,hypnotic and extremely fun.The journey this movie has about the New English wave does not look like any documentary or dramatization I have ever seen.The story's very fast development gives us an idea about the ''facts'' and I'm sure almost all the ''facts'' are invented and the main character reminds us that with the following phrase''This may not happened,but,as someone famous said,when you have to choose between reality and legend,choose the legend''.It's obvious that director Michael Winterbottom's purpose is not giving us a History Lesson.And he made the movie totally fun,putting that year's music combined with the British humor,which is my favorite kind of humor.It's difficult to describe the movie without revealing the surprises it has.When you are going to see it,you only have to sit down and enjoy a real masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Ferret","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The British Film Industry makes quite a few films these days, yet it still makes very few British films. This is one of them, and it is utterly brilliant, evocative, exciting, interesting, hilarious and experimental.I don't know how people are gonna react to this if they haven't grown up with Tony Wilson on the idiot box every week on Granada telly. It may turn out to be something that entertains Mancs and few else. I hope not.God bless Michael Winterbottom; guess I'll have to go watch his other films now&#133; "},{"Title":"Makes you curious or nostalgic...","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, I watched the movie and started a bit boring, but I think the movie is pretty interesting when you actually understand what you're watching. There are lots of legends in this movie (so the movie is not that real, it's just the legend), and it's very well directed. I think the best part of the movie is when you get hooked by it, and you begin to research for the facts and the songs. So the movie must be followed by curiosity and nostalgia. I think is an excellent documental. Although, it seems centered in Tony Wilson, but when the movie ends, the least you remember is his life. "},{"Title":"You have to be British.","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Whilst this film is not a great piece of cinema it is extremely entertaining.However,most of joy comes from the subtle irony of the script. No matter how good your grasp of the English language (if you are not British), you have understand the nuances of meaning, which can only come from a background of a certain culture. Criticisms that it is not factually complete or that it misses out on certain significant details are irrelevant, its a piece of fiction, it is as our Germanic brethren might say a reflective zeitgeist. This isn't a defence of the film, for I can appreciate that without this understanding it could seem pretty uninspiring.It just that to get the best from it you have to British and I guess of a certain age.  "},{"Title":"Manchester...So much to Answer For...","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The problem with a movie about the music that came out of Manchester, England is that if the movie is entirely about the music only, the appeal would be limited which belies the fact that Manchester is arguably one of the most important cities in terms of the bands and music that came out over the last 3 decades.Unfortunately the movie needs a center about which it all can revolve and the Factory Records/Tony Wilson/Hacienda arc is the obvious choice. What is left out could fill another movie as we learn next to nothing about other important Manchester bands like, uh, The Smiths, not to mention The Stone Roses and one of the pioneers of electronic music 808 State.Despite their being the proto-typical Madchester band, The Happy Mondays really were not all that interesting, or as good as the above groups. Still, the movie is well done and encapsulates the music scene in England, particuraly during the latter part of the 80s, easily Manchester's hey-day.Possibly difficult for Americans to grasp, yes, it is true that rave culture really began, in earnest, in this northern industrial British city as did the whole baggy (clothes) era.For those who are still interested in this, seek out the collections of the all these bands. You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't really know what it wants to say","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It seems to me that Michael Winterbottom didn't know whether he wanted to make a comedy, a drama or what.I think he's attempting to make a time piece much as PT Anderson did with Boogie Nights, namely to look at a change in society over time (in Boogie Nights from the free wheeling 70s into the corporate 80s) through the eyes of one group (in BN's case, porn stars) in that when he was growing up he saw England change from its fading Imperial ways and declining industrial base in the late 1970s (and that one of the few ways out for young people in the industrial north was to form a band) to the heady rejuvenation of Great Britain by the early 90s.In this regard (and in many others) his film is less successful than Anderson's and as a huge Madchester music fan I was disappointed how he handled the music and edited the film, plus none of the actors looked like their contemporaries, except for the Rob Gretton and the Gillian Gilbert (she was a dead spit).7/10. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but not entirely successful","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Factory Records scene, born in Manchester, England and home to acts like Joy Division and The Happy Mondays was one of the most vibrant musical movements of the 70s and 80s. English director Michael Winterbottom has documented the rise and fall of the label and its founder Tony Wilson in an interesting, but not entirely successful way in 24 Hour Party People. The film attempts to cover the years 1976 to the early 90s, the birth of punk rock to the waning moments of acid jazz but is too ambitious in its scope. Names and dates are glossed over, and while you get a sense of excitement you're frequently left wondering what is so exciting. The film takes piercing the fourth wall to a whole new level as Steve Coogan, the English comic who plays Wilson, frequently addresses the camera with asides. `You'll see more of that scene on the DVD,' he says at one point. Those who aren't familiar with the Factory Records scene won't learn much, and those who are won't learn anything they didn't already know. I left the theatre with the nagging feeling that this material might have been better served in documentary style, something like Julien Temple's look at the career and influence of The Sex Pistols The Filth and the Fury. "},{"Title":"one of the best of the year","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, maybe I'm a bit biased as this film covers much of the fanfare and disorder that surrounded the Manchester post-punk scene from mid-'70s to mid-'90s. Several key bands are never mentioned (most notably The Smiths and Stone Roses), but the central subject is Tony Wilson, the chatty president of Factory Records. Brilliantly portrayed by Steve Coogan, he never becomes wearing as he hastily guides us through 20 years of glamour and grit. "},{"Title":"Madchester in the Heyday... Wish I Had Been There!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, first of all... you should NOT see this movie unless you understand the full impact of how Manchester, England's 1980's -1990's live music scene influenced the rave/dance/D.J. culture as we know it today. You should NOT see this movie if you have never heard of at least one of the following artists Joy Division, New Order, or Happy Mondays. You just won't appreciate it. Plus, you have to have SOME understanding of the subtle Brit humour, behavior, and dialogue throughout. Of course, much of that content is so inextricably tied to the musical and cultural references of that time that it's hard to overlook. If you pass the above criteria, then you will surely conclude that 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLE is sheer genius... an astute and clever observation of a particular musical history in a particular location. However, the series of events in this one location during this time period would deeply influence people all over the world for years to come.I love the passion behind this story. One man, Tony Wilson, and his vision friends and musicians all wrapped up in an inspired and inebriated state of bliss and exploration, pursuing a common goal of good times, good times. Oh yeah, and if they make history as well... cool! The 21st century music industry seems to be mainly consumed with the capital gain derived from manufactured acts. This film is here to remind us of a time and a place when music meant something more. Something that couldn't merely be owned! Tony Wilson's Factory Records label was founded on this pure premise. The scene in the film where the London Records executive tries to buy out Factory Records makes such a poetically deep statement in regards to the corporate state of the music industry today. Artists own the music. That's the way it should be. Musicians should thank God for the Tony Wilsons of the world. He's a self-sacrificial character who gave all of himself for the MUSIC and the magic it created. He wasn't solely in it for the profit. Wow.The unabashed spirit of the worldwide rave culture owes so much to Tony Wilson and his club, the Hacienda, in Manchester. It's truly inspiring to watch the metamorphosis on film of the at first dismally attended club grow into the widely influential and groundbreaking acid house explosion of the late 80's/early 90's. It was the beautification of the beat, as Tony Wilson boldly states in his narrative. What a brilliant statement!!!The blossoming of the moody late 70's/early 80's Manchester music scene to the fizzy and upbeat dance/rave scene that began in the late 80's is, in my opinion, ever so parallel to the transformation of the darker Joy Division to the luminescent quality of New Order. It was a rebirth of something totally new. Being a longtime fan of New Order, I always thought that it was so inspiring how despite the suicide of Joy Division's tormented lead singer Ian Curtis, the members of the group were able to pick up the pieces and move forward in an entirely new and positive direction. It wasn't that the latter group was better than the predecessor. It was just so admirable that in being so dedicated to their music, they were able to create another entity that was just as beautiful yet so different; a phoenix rising from the ashes.Hooray for 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLE and its lovingly told tale of one man's passion for the music and the power it held! May we all appreciate the legacy it has left. A must-see for fans of britpop, dance, and electronic music. Oh yeah... the soundtrack kicks ass too! "}{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just got done watching this and I can safely say thats almost 2 hours of my life im not going to get back. It dragged, had no real entertaining parts and was generally pretty boring.This is the worst movie ive seen this year and one of the worst ive seen in a long time.Want to watch a good movie about music rent Velvet Goldmine. Or get Dazed and Confused if you want to reminise about the good old days.Rubbish! "},{"Title":"2.5 stars (out of 4)","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Subjectivity As much as any reviewer tries to see a film for what it is, the actual *experience* of seeing it is all there really is to go on. In the case of this film, I had seen the preview several times and was very motivated to see the film, but I waited until the last night it was playing nearby. That day (9/5/2002) I was seriously sleep deprived and also didn't have time for dinner, attempting to substitute a medium popcorn and a large Diet Coke. And I had a mild headache before the film started.Someday I'll watch it again to see if the experience is different.----------------------------------------This film is about the early punk rock scene in Manchester, England, starting in 1976. Tony Wilson (Steve Coogan) has a show called So It Goes on a local TV channel in Manchester where his bosses want him to do things like fly a hang glider and interview a dwarf elephant keeper. But he keeps reminding people that he went to Cambridge, and that this kind of thing is *not* why he became a journalist.We learn that his real passion is music. Very early in the film he attends a concert of the Sex Pistols, correctly identifying this to be a key turning point in musical history despite the presence of only 42 people in the audience. He showcases them and other punk rock bands on his show, starts a record label (Factory Records), and opens a nightclub.Besides the Sex Pistols, several other bands are featured, including Joy Division. The name of this particular band apparently comes from Nazi sex-slave camps, which some suggest is not a very good image for a band, but Wilson dismisses this issue with a comment about postmodernism and/or semiotics. Coogan manages to pull off this attitude in a believable and charming way, which is perhaps not surprising since he has apparently played a similar character on British TV for many years.All of this is a great deal of fun, actually. My problem, at least of this day, was the presentation. From the start, the opening credits are essentially impossible to read, looking like they were passed through some sort of severe drug trip filter. The camera is highly unsteady, in the worst SpastiCam&#153; tradition. I started the film with a small headache and ended with a large headache and an upset stomach. The experience, for me, was unpleasant. Your mileage may, and hopefully will, vary.  "},{"Title":"The story behind Factory records, New Order, Joy Division and the Happy Mondays.","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great movie about some bands that I loved growing up.  I remember in Junior High when a friend of mine gave me the Happy Mondays' Thrills, Pills and Bellyaches to check out.  I loved it and made a tape of it that I still have today, although it is a bit beaten up.  The Happy Mondays, Joy Division and New Order were both great bands and this movie shows a little bit about their starts and downfalls as told by Tony Wilson.  The movie also touches on the beginnings of the rave scene in Manchester and the part that the Happy Mondays had in its birth there.  The Hacienda, the venue where Factory Records held its events saw the rise of these bands and the rise of electronic dance music.  This helps tie together my musical tastes now and what influenced that.   I spent my formative years, Junior High and High School listening to bands like the Happy Mondays and the Fall, New Order and Nirvana, The Red Hot Chili Peppers and the Sex Pistols, and it somehow all fits that today I have become immersed in the rave culture and into electronic dance music, I can see a bit more clearly how my musical tastes then influenced what I listen to today.  This film is well done, told from Tony's perspective, looking back on it all.  It is a tale of the rise and fall of Factory Records, where in the end, drugs and lack of any real business plan led the label to its end.  When Sean Ryder succumbed to heroin addiction and then to using crack, the Happy Mondays were unable to produce another album to keep the label alive.  And since they had no real contracts with their artists, the artists controlled all rights to their music, so the label was unable to sell out when the time came to do so.  Quite a tale of sex, drugs and rock and roll... "},{"Title":"Movie? No.  Soundtrack? Yes!","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though I've never been to Manchester, I owe much of who I am today to the subjects of this film.  I was six years old when the punk scene began, but caught up to it in my early teens.  I spent most of my early teen years listening to Joy Division, New Order, and the like.  Towards my late teens I moved on, and evolved, as did Manchester, into the acid house and early rave scene (though my raving days were in San Francisco).  So, of course, when I heard about this movie I couldn't wait to see it.Having said all that, I found this movie to be quite disappointing. Though it told us throughout the film that the birth and evolution of the Manchester scene was a historical event it failed to show us the true energy and excitement.  It is a film about Factory Records, but it seems to intentionally avoid creating a sense of what the punk-then new wave-then acid house subculture was about.  Factory records was obviously created out of a passion that is all but missing here. The story line is incoherent, though not in the avant-garde way that i believe it was meant to be.  If you didn't spend the eighties living off the music that was the Manchester scene, don't expect to learn anything about it from this film.  If you did, like I did, then there will be parts inspired by the soundtrack that will instigate a great longing for the days, when underground really was.There are some good points that should be noted.  The portrayal of Ian Curtis is amazing. And the dancing Happy Mondays guy and shots of the Hacienda crowd while Voodoo Ray is playing will, for a moment, take you back.. But, be warned, the comedown is harsh.Recommend the movie?  No.  Buy the soundtrack?  Definitely! "},{"Title":"Tedious Mess","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is a compelling and exciting story floating around in 24hhp. Unfortunately it isn't on the screen.  Beginning with unreadablescratched in credits, the movie tries to establish an anarchic feelthat it actually manages to maintain.  But this faithfulness to moodmakes it impossible to know enough about anybody to really care. The film is filled with allusions to storylines that are never fullyexplored.  There's a section that shows Tony in a drug hazeddecline but this problem with drugs is immediately dropped. Characters that could be interesting are dropped or never fullyexplained.  I wasn't into the techno (or whatever Joy division was) scene soperhaps my ignorance in the scene is a hindrance but I expect amovie to satisfy me without prior study.  I will give the lead actor props for a really compelling job.  I couldreally like this guy.  And I'll applaud the movie for some momentsbut I was bored to tears through out.  Finally, the unreadable credit style is also used during the film toidentify bands etc.  They are equally unreadable.  I don't have thepatience to strain to read somebody's work.   "},{"Title":"So many small touches make a wonderful nostalgia-fest","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  24PP was not the movie I expected; I expected lots of Coogan's Wilson, yeah, of course, but the sheer visual verve and mass of small in-jokes (in-jokes for anyone with a passing interest in British music between 1976 and 1993) that worked on so many levels left me breathless. I guess you could argue, this a good film does not make. Maybe you're right, but for me the story held together surprisingly well as a whole, and didn't feel like a cobbled together act of desparation. Coogan is wonderful, especially in his scenes set on the Granada news programme. The bit where they argue the facts of dwarf versus midget with John Thompson is my highlight of the year so far. "},{"Title":"A sharp version of the story of Manchester in the 70s, 80s and 90s","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A sharp study of a slice of late 70's through to early 90s Manchester, with Steve Coogan leading a great cast with his matter-of-fact TV presenter role suiting his part as label-boss Anthony Wilson brilliantly.  Perhaps a couple of slightly mis-cast band members (Ralf Little as Hooky) but some great performances by Danny Cunningham as Shaun Ryder and Sean Harris as Ian Curtis.The linear plot is helped along by a series of intriguing developments in the story of Factory Records and the line between fact and legend is made clear by Coogan's entertaining narration and occasional asides.  Also features lightning-fast cameos by Mark E Smith, Howard DeVoto and Vini Reilly amongst others. "},{"Title":"Rock 'n' Roll","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie can take its place in the pantheon of great rnr movies alongside The Great Rock n Roll Swindle/Filth & The Fury and Spinal Tap - in fact it could be the bastard child of that unholy union.It feels like a documentary although its a dramatisation and while it is a comedy its not a spoof in the way Tap was. Its funny more because rnr is funny. Best bit - no spoiler - is probably the Mondays on tour. Absolute mayhem!Steve Coogan was phenomenal.Finally, as someone who has always loathed Tony Wilson (his public persona anyway) the film made me feel that despite his flaws here is a man who LOVES music so good luck to him... "},{"Title":"Another string to Michael Winterbottoms' bow!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have seen all of Michael Winterbotttom's movies and to be honest have enjoyed them all. 24 Hour Party People was no exception.It's a bizarre 2 hour journey into the life of Tony Wilson, concentrating primarily on 2 bands. The first hour is Joy Division and the second hour is The Happy Mondays, and to a lesser extent New Order. The music is fantastic as you would expect. In fact this almost seems like a 2 hour pop video with Steve Coogan doing a voice over.The only problem for me was that there should have been at least some reference to The Smiths and The Stone Roses, the only link to the latter being a cameo appearance from Mani. But these are small issues in a hugely enjoyable movie, it's a pity there were only half a dozen people in the cinema to see it, obviously they must have something better to do than re-live their childhood!  "},{"Title":"Refreshing honest and funny","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a perfect example of creative Movie making with excellent and talented cast. The heady gritty back drop of Manchester has produced more than its fair share of musical artists, this movie goes some way to convey the pragmatic and creative forces that this great Northern city produces.Steve Coogan serving great timing and observational humour is ruthlessly funny in his role as Tony Wilson.The only advice I can give is watch the Movie, buy the CD, buy the T shirt, then buy the DVD. (Oh ,then come to Manchester and party...Mad for it!) "}{"Title":"Coogan's more successful big screen transition","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsShot in docu-style,24 PP has hugely talented funnyman Steve Coogan as Tony Wilson,the real life manager of Factory Records,and promoter of well known '80's bands Joy Division and The Happy Mondays,and his dramatic rise & fall from 1976-1992.It's skillful to be able to derive so much satirical humour from a true-life story and the film does have its funny moments.Just when The Parole Officer made it seem Coogan was better suited to TV than the big screen, he goes and proves us wrong.**** "},{"Title":"Turn it up! Ya should be in 'ere!. Step on. Amen","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What can I say? Brilliant! The film tells the story of the rise and fall Factory Records. Steve Coogan's Tony Wilson is spot on. The soundtrack is predictably brilliant. Shame there wasn't more info on the the other (non-Factory) Manchester bands which played a huge part in the scene as much as the Factory bands (The Stone Roses, The Smiths, etc) I think many people will find this film hugely entertaining, whether they were in to the scene or not. Turn it up! Ya should be in 'ere!. Step on, indeed. "},{"Title":"Better than expected.","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Does the pathetic Manchester music scene need a movie about it? Well, yes and no. The music is certainly horrible enough to be ignored by movie-goers and music fans alike &#150; this sort of mediocre garbage being destined for oblivion. (The title song alone can only appeal to the severely tone-deaf.) However, was there a sufficient number of interesting (read moronic) characters and events in this music scene to warrant a movie? Yes.I had so far seen only the flawed but solid Butterfly Kiss and the awful/silly 9 Songs from my favourite-name director, Winterbottom (Zimskaguzica in Serbian, Winterarsch in German), so I expect(ed) little from any of Coldrear's offerings. However, to his credit he hired Steve Coogan (or did Steve hire him? matters not&#133;) who does a very good job in a semi-dramatic semi-comedic role. The hand-held camera shtick is so trite, but the story itself unfolds briskly enough as to make one forgive and forget that little pretentiousness-induced directorial travesty. The rest of the cast are quite solid, too. "},{"Title":"There's a party going on, but if you don't get it, you're not invited..","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think my one line summary explains everything about this picture in a nutshell.  24 Hour Party People which gives a chronological look at the rise of Manchester's music scene is a unique idea told in a very interesting way.The problem though is that the film doesn't give the viewers who are not familiar with the material the chance to be part of the action and excitement.  That's its greatest flaw, if you are not familiar with the music and/or admiration of bands like Happy Mondays, Joy Division,  or the rave culture and so forth.. then you are just witnessing everything from a distance with a big fat 'so what' on your face.Sure Tony Wilson is a character, and remarkably well played in the film, but there has to be some sort of avenue for us to enjoy those rare moments when some great band is being born out of fun circumstances (such as when some guy jumps on stage grabbing the lead mic, or another just gets up there to dance and motivate the crowd).It's like trying to enjoy the movie Backbeat if you don't care for the Beatles, it just doesn't work.A good film would let you in on the fun even if you weren't a fan, because it would MAKE YOU one, but 24 hour Party People leaves you in the dust.Rating 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The genesis of a funky madness called new wave!!","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yes,this shinning outraged movie or almost a living documentary sends us 'till the birth of the whatever nameddark,Gothic.neopunk,new romantic movement so beloved for all those who are missing the big timesTony Wilson our host,is a journalist not so informed in the beginning,but when you advance the view,he'll show some of the main pioneersHappy Mondays(though that doves' massacre was nasty,how much insanity!!),Joy Division(after Ian Curtis' ABSURD decease was New Order),Simple Red(one shy Mick Hucknall),a hint of Sex Pistols (Sid Vicious in all his misled fury!!),The Clash(pre-age of its pop rising). Wilson so friendly to us,explains the turning from Factory Records to The Hacienda club,symbols of the Manchester's boom,a colored background of the frenzy wrapped around in some facts so easy to come alongdrugs,sex,violence and taxes included;the music enable to capture youLove will tear us apart a precious jewel by Ian Curtis and Joys!!,Anarchy in the UK(historical!!),BLUE Monday(already New Order)and 24 Hour People  (A glimpse of reason from Ryder bros!)If you want to live with nostalgics,run and watch this movie of cult, those times won't come back for sure,NEW WAVE FOREVER!! "},{"Title":"Great Documentary, Comedy and Drama","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I only started to watch 24 Hour Party People because it said Sex Pistols in the summary and they featured in the trailer. Even though they had quite a small part in the movie I was not disappointed because it was still a fabulous movie.I didn't know anything about bands like Joy Division and Happy Mondays before watching this movie but after hearing some of their great music on this films brilliant soundtrack I will definitely be looking out for some of their stuff.Steve Coogan did a great job of playing Tony Wilson. He was very annoying and very full of himself, but I think that's what Tony is like in real life. The rest of the cast were great too, especially Andy Serkis as Martin Hannett and Sean Harris as Ian Curtis.The movie can be very funny at points, quite sad at others and almost always explicit, whether it be drugs, sex or foul language, but that doesn't really distract from the great story.Overall, 24 Hour Party People is a great documentary, comedy and drama. I'm sure fans of the music it is about will love it, and even people who it is new to (like myself) will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Fans of films about music you need to see this one","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not gonna lie to you, this movie will be a lot more enjoyable if you're in any way into the post punk and specially Manchester music of the 80's. However it is conducted with such pace and humour that even people not aware of the kind of music being made in the early 80's should find this of very entertaining viewing.Admiteddly I'm a sucker for movies that circle around music- This is Spinal Tap, Almost Famous, Dig, Fearless Freaks, That Thing you do, High Fidelity they're all films I've watched several times. Of all these 24Hour Party People probably only loses in comparison with the mighty This is Spinal Tap.The movie follows the life of Tony Wilson and how he somewhat accidentally founded one of the defining record labels of the 80's, signed more bands that he could possibly manage and always stuck his neck out for sake of the music's integrity(even at the cost of his own).All the shenanigans he goes through are made believable by the affecting yet extremely self deprecating way Steve Coogan tackles the role, believe me it is not easy to come across as pathetic and driven in the same frame as Coogan often does here.Also noteworthy is the insight into some of these bands creative and recording processes, particularly the warm way in which Midas-like producer Martin Hannet and legendarily gloomy Joy Division are faced, the Joy Division moments are indeed where most of the movie's highlights reside(that and the Smiths/Simply Red joke).Beyond all this we have the added bonus of having loads of cameos by bandmembers of such influential groups as the Stone Roses or the Inspiral Carpets.One of the best surprises I had in recent years. "},{"Title":"Best film about the music industry&#133;ever!","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm a fan of Michael Winterbottom and I love the music from the 'Madchester' era (well, some of it. Admittedly for every Stone Roses (best band ever, by the way) there were about a dozen rip-offs &#150; some of them actually worse than The Farm), so it was kind of a given that I'd dig Twenty Four Hour Party People. But although I was predisposed towards liking it, it really is an excellent film. It's a movie about the insanity of the music industry but there's no sermonising, no moralising and no preaching. Even though liberties are taken with the truth &#150; the film admits this, quoting the famous John Ford adage 'When you have to chose between the truth and the legend; print the legend' &#150; it feels authentic.One of the most successful scenes is the one dealing with Ian Curtis' suicide. Ordinarily there'd be the temptation to try and fill it with meaning and emotion, but instead it comes across as it probably was &#150; a rather sad, meaningless act. And the funeral avoids sentimentality, too. There's an amusing moment when a Joy Division fan tries to convince Tony Wilson that he can take Ian's part. He even says he can do the dance! But there's a nice moment when Tony touches Ian's hand as he's lying in the coffin and when he kisses his forehead. Those small actions express the depth of feeling perfectly.But although that moment is entirely serious, the majority of the film is comic. And if you watch the DVD extras Peter Hook even complains about this. He says something about this being their lives. Well, fair enough it may be somewhat annoying for a person involved in the scene to not have their work treated with solemn respect, but how seriously can you take Madchester? I mean, I love it to bits, but this is the music scene that gave us Shaun Ryder and Bez, The Inspiral Carpets and Tony Wilson. Comedy was the only way to go.One of the things I like the most is the sheer incompetence of Factory. They made great music and they had tons of style, but as a business they were bottom of the league. Just take the way the gig posters arrive during the gig It took ages to get the right yellow. Or the way the tickets for the first night of the Hacienda arrive only a few hours before the event. Or the way they lose money on each copy of 'Blue Monday' &#150; which became the biggest selling 12-inch single. And then there's the bit where we're informed that the Factory offices have a zinc roof, but you can only see it from a helicopter. It's insane. But then again, this is what makes Factory so endearing. They were completely guileless.But you really do have to wonder about the intelligence of Tony Wilson. Yeah he may have gone to Cambridge and yes he may be able to wax lyrical at the drop of a hat, but the whole communal approach to music making was doomed from the outset. You've only got to remind yourself of the mentality of the average rock star to realise this.The Happy Mondays best illustrate the fact that Wilson's experiment was to doomed to failure. A bunch of working class lads who take copious amounts of drugs, they were never going to be particularly productive. But although Wilson was mad to indulge them so excessively, it really is rather endearing that he did. The music industry is one of the most cynical industries there is, so it's nice that, for a brief time, a relative innocent was able to make an impact.But back to the Mondays. I love the scene at the airport where they smash all of Ryder's methadone before they even get on the plane. They're a bunch of fools. They're a shambles. But once again I love the fact that this happened. Who wants a band to be measured and sober? You want them to live the crazy life you're not brave enough to live yourself. And then there's the bit where Ryder steals the master tapes and tries to sell them back to Factory. He even uses a gun during negotiations. These are the sorts of things I want to happen in the music industry. I wish they were happening all the time.And Bez! Honestly, could any film that has a cinematic representation of Bez possibly fail? I don't think so, and especially when the Bez here is such a brilliant copy. The kid has the spaced-out expression and monkey moves down perfectly. Oh, and he even arrives via UFO. Brilliant! It's also a joy seeing Steve Coogan's version of Tony Wilson. Really, is there any one quite so pretentious, quite so bombastic and quite so up himself as Anthony Wilson? Probably not. And the recreations of local news segments are priceless. The hand gliding is the most famous one, but I personally love the dwarf hosing the elephant. Pick on someone your own size, or maybe not. Anyone who lives in Britain and has watched their local news will know the horror of the 'comic' news segment.But Coogan does get funnier moments. Best of all is when his wife catches him getting a blow-job from a hooker. I love you! (Can you finish me off?) And then in the next scene I only got a blow-job. That's full penetration. But that part of the film reminds me of Peter Kay. He steals every scene he's in. And I love his line when he's taking Wilson to the prostitutes Let's have a nosh to seal the bag. Peter Kay, I salute you.But there's so much great stuff in the film the music, the Hacienda, the stuff dealing with the gun problems, the old concert footage, the scene with the pigeons. Best film about the music industry...ever! "},{"Title":"24 Hour Party People","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 24 Hour Party People is a recreation of the true story of Tony Wilson. The film starts off in 1976 in Manchester, England where Tony is a local television news reporter. After seeing a performance by the group The Sex Pistols on stage Tony tries to get his station to televise one of their performances. Soon many punk groups are coming after Tony and so he and some of his friends create a record label called Factory Records and a club called The Hacienda Club. With the help of Tony and his record label he helped launch such bands as The Happy Mondays, Joy Division and New Order. This film tells the story in a false documentary like fashion. 24 Hour Party People has good direction, a good original script, a great performance by Steve Coogan as Tony Wilson, good cinematography and good film editing. The film has a very intelligent script that is often filled with good dialog and some very unique and clever moments. It also has a neat visual look to it with it's cinematography and visual effects that I thought really looked good and really set the mood for the type of film that this is. I thought Steve Coogan did a very good job playing Tony Wilson and Coogan plays him as a smart but yet sometimes frustrated individual and he also brought a lot of humour and wit to the role as well. Other than being a good looking film and having a good leading performance 24 Hour Party People is also a fascinating film and I liked the way the director and screenwriter told the story as a mockumentary and included some off the wall scenes in for fun. This film is interesting, neat to look at and a lot of fun. I also think that anyone who is a fan of the 80's club and music scene will also appreciate this movie and it's unique style and way of telling it. "},{"Title":"Maybe as true as the Bible","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is basically the spirit of punk but with better tunes and, musically at least, more imagination. The idea of Factory stands tall above any corporate focus group b*****ks and for all their naivety Wilson and Erasmus created something that, maybe only with the advantage of hindsight, can been seen as something so beautifully idealistic that it is difficult seeing such a creation reoccurring. THIS IS HOW IT SHOULD BE, stumbling idealists and contracts signed in blood. A beautiful and romantic 'rock and roll' myth (if you were even half interested in the film get the DVD for the Wilson narrative...when in doubt print the legend). "}{"Title":"Shattered dreams","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My musical roots are Factory Records, i.e. Joy Division and A Certain Ratio. And this movie really shatters my image of this record company and its bands. It wasn't and idealistic record co., it was Tony Wilson and his image and in his vision the bands were just a means to an end. In the movie the death of Ian Curtis was just something that happened, but it didn't really showed the impact it had (I'm curious about the movie my fellow dutchman Anton Corbijn is making about Ian Curtis). But then again I loved the way the movie showed how the whole second summer of love grew and came to an ultimate high. Something I experienced in the late 80's on Ibiza. So, all in all, great movie with some flaws, especially the way the late 70's and early 80's were envisioned. "},{"Title":"Excellent Creative Film, but I'm biased","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Outstanding film period. Creative format and excellent acting. As I said I'm biased though - I was a Joy Division fan back when you could only buy their albums in one or two record shops in NYC. I was a fan of everything Factory and still have a nice collection of everything they put out. Even back in the early 80's at the peak of their popularity 9 out of 10 people didn't even know who Joy Division were, so who would have ever thought someone would come along and make a movie about them, well sort of about them. I'm not sure the whole tie-in to the birth of the rave culture is 100% attributable to Manchester, but it was a significant player. My only other complaint is the cover photo - some teenie bopper with a tongue piercing. It's interesting to note that I thought that the demographic with the strongest attachment to this film would be 30 something males and females - original Joy Division and New Order fans, however, its teenage girls - I hope they didn't just pick this movie because they liked the cover picture, which is actually very similar to the picture for the movie Thirteen. "},{"Title":"An occasionally entertaining music history tale without enough history.","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLERATING = 6/10. An occasionally entertaining music history tale without enough history. More time needed to be spent on Joy Division and the creation of the rave scene since they are so important in the history of music. The film need to be longer or should have covered a shorter time-span.The GOOD. A very creative history of music tale told through the eyes of Tony Wilson. Features the amazing founders of punk, alternative music, and the start of the rave culture. Steve Coogan gives an entertaining performance throughout the film. Not the standard cautionary tale about the dangers of rock. Great music throughout. Lots of celebrity cameos.The BAD. Hard to understand some of the thick British accents. Not enough time was spent on Joy Division and the terribly unfortunate suicide of one of its members. Not enough time spent on rave origins. Too short of a film to cover a decade-and-a-half. The viewer will not be interested if he/she does not care about punk, alternative, or techno. "},{"Title":"Good -- not great","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had been wanting to see this film for quite some time, but I was kind of disappointed after viewing it.I suppose I was expecting it to be more of a sober documentary than a jumbled mess. You do get the basic outline of how things happened, who did what and why, etc., but the whole film feels very rushed.Also, it did seem that the movie was more balanced towards focusing on the Happy Mondays more than New Order. Not that there's anything wrong with it, but I think if New Order's success was featured more prominently, it would have made the film feel a little more balanced.It's a good movie for an introduction to the Madchester scene, but it doesn't delve deep enough into said scene.  "},{"Title":"shows the madchester scene through the eyes of it's creator","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  there is mention of 1 scene in this review but it isn't really a spoilersome american reviewers panned this movie solely on the thick accents that they made no attempt to understand. sure the accents are a bit harsh but thats just adds to the realism of the movie. people also said that some of the scenes were pointless and unfunny, i.e the pigeon killing scene. but what the don't understand (and never will) is that this shows the madness that put the mad in 'madchester'. but having said that, anyone who wasn't there or shows has interest in the music it would be best to skip this little number from your collection, if you want a british music film stick with rocky horror, tommy or quadrophenia.  "},{"Title":"Superb gritty film","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ignore the gibberish that the American spoke earlier in the reviews. This film has NOTHING to do with raves. It mentions them once, so if it's that offensive don't watch that 20 second clip you prat! As for awful British accents? Everyone has an accent, just because they differ to yours doesn't mean they aren't as valid or for that matter any less entertaining. I do wish you'd vet such reviews in the same way as you'll cut mine for swearing...Onto the film. I was going to complain about how much Coogan is playing the Alan Partridge character when I read that he actually based Partridge on Wilson in the first place. That gives the film 9/10 for me. Brilliant. Watched it twice and it gets better each time. Great humour in it too, unless you're a Brit hating yank! "},{"Title":"More irrelevant than irreverent","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It amazes me how 'The Parole Officer' was panned indiscriminately, while this film was almost universally acclaimed as a masterpiece.If anything I enjoyed Coogan's first big-screen venture more than this one. Quite a lot more if I'm honest, and cheap street-cred be damned.The problem is, I just couldn't identify with a lot of the values in this film. Coogan himself as Tony Wilson is brilliantly funny and creative as ever, and the delicious subtleties he brings to all his roles are worth the cost of admission (or the DVD) alone.But a celebration of the grim predictable conformity of Northern dance and drug culture in the 80s and 90s is simply a party to which I was never invited, and which I find it utterly impossible to get excited about.We're meant to like and/or respect a lot of the characters represented in this film, and if, like me, you expressed utter indifference to them in real life, then it's unlikely you'll have a lot of time for them in a film in which they supposedly represent the credible creative muse against which Tony Wilson reacts.And Ralf Little as Peter Hook? I really hope there was a deliberate irony in casting perhaps the least-talented child actor as the New Order bassist, one of the few genuinely gifted musicians represented in the film.Overall I was disappointed, but then my expectations were probably way too high, given the subject matter. Hopefully now Coogan's got this adolescent dream out of his system, he can go on to something slightly wider-reaching and challenging. "},{"Title":"MAD FOR IT","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tony Wilson could only exist, prosper and fail in the U.K; and Coogan captures him perfectly. Similarly Ryder and his buffoons seem accurate. The film does overlook the contribution of the likes of The Stone Roses and The Smiths, but it's an amusing insight.It was an energetic time in Britain, and you're transported there by this film. Winterbottom continues to produce a diverse field of work. "},{"Title":"Messy and not too careful with facts but still a hugely enjoyable, freewheeling, rowdy affair that is one of the better British films from the past 5 years","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite his hopes for more, we join Tony Wilson as he flies a hang-glider for a local news spot for Granada in Manchester. Part of his programming allows him to show new music coming through in the local clubs and it is this area where he senses that he is part of something bigger. At a gig by the new band The Sex Pistols Tony looks around him and sees the future of the very small audience and decides to take more of an active role in the scene. A club night is the start of Tony's Factory Records and a story of which he himself is almost a side-issue.When this film opened in 1976 (the year I was born) I thought that I was going to struggle to connect with this film and that it I wouldn't enjoy it as much. However the period I was only a child in was well covered because the music and bands are well known to me in retrospect and the film continues into the era of Happy Mondays and such that was much more of my time. Either way though, this film was still very entertaining and enjoyable despite being a very freewheeling mess. I can imagine that no knowledge of the bands or the period will mean that this whole thing is just a messy film but for the majority of viewers in the UK there will be enough knowledge to ensure an interest in the subject. For my money though, the film didn't need this hook of period because I was actually equally taken in by the unruly, drunken, sprawling and ramshackle approach of the whole thing. Perhaps befitting the music and the period, the film is all over the place and is all the better for it. We get to-camera narration, self-awareness, history, exaggeration, contradiction and real entertainment. It takes some getting into at first but once it has you, it is very easy to enjoy.The cast buy into this and they are genuinely a delight from the lead actors down to the cameos from the real people themselves. Coogan comes across a bit like Alan Partridge at times but generally he has more than just that and he makes for a good central character while also being able to hold together the to-camera stuff. The film is mostly his in terms of performances but the main support actors are good, producing some convincing characters as well as being exaggerated and funny. The cameos will be enjoyed by those who recognise them but not doing so doesn't take anything away from the film.I have found this a hard film to describe because, although I enjoyed it a great deal, it is hard not to see the problems with it. Some viewers will find it messy, illogical, all over the shop, too self aware and will just give up on it. I, on the other hand, found it messy, illogical, all over the shop and too self-aware but found this part of the appeal and, along with the simplified history lesson it gave, found it surprisingly enjoyable and freewheeling. Well worth checking out &#150; if only all British films could be like this. "},{"Title":"Critical mess","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  24 Hour Party People is another film which reaches critical mess with a vast chasm between the salivating film critics and a dumbfounded public. A very smart docudrama about a very boring subject with an even more boring, trite, and conceited story, 24 Hour.... follows Coogan through the genesis of a Manchester, England punk band (sort of). Bottom line here is, if you never heard of Joy Division,  New Order, Factory Records, or Tony Wilson then you probably won't care about this film. I don't listen to punk, never attended a rave, etc. and was pretty much bored through-out the film. It's clever quirkiness (sheep herding goose, poisoned pigeons, etc) is the only thing which kept me awake and mildly amused. For 24 hour party people only. (B-) "}{"Title":"I fell asleep.","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love New Order and like Joy Division, though I've never been a real Happy Mondays fan. So I figured this film would be entertaining. How can you go wrong with something named '24 hour party people'?Unfortunately, I got so bored in the theater I fell asleep. So I can't give a good plot analysis, but I can say that very few films have put me to sleep... "},{"Title":"not that good","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is like picking lint out of your navel...... perhaps self-absorbing to you but not very interesting to anybody else. Manchester is a place people leave. It had its not-quite-fifteen minutes like other places before/after. This movie (jerkily) tries to show it but it really doesn't say much about it. I'm sure it feels important to a few who understand the in-references (when they can make out the words) and have convinced themselves M was the center of the universe fleetingly. For the rest of us..... boring.  Lots of talent in this movie..... shame it's wasted. Now..... when will we get the Curt bio.... and I guess something about Seattle ..... "},{"Title":"24 Hour Party People","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A good British film, kind of like a This Is Spinal Tap film, about the music industry mixed with fiction and reality at the same time. Steve Coogan plays Tony Wilson, a music journalist and manager who has a real compassion to give audiences the best performances and bands on stage at the night clubs. Also starring some other really good British performances. These include The Fast Show's John Thomson as Charles (Granada TV producer), Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets' Shirley Henderson as Lindsay Wilson, Gollum/Sméagol and King Kong performer Andy Serkis as Martin Hannett, Peter Kay as Don Tonay, Tim Horrocks (possibly related to Jane Horrocks) as Steve, Rob Brydon as Ryan Letts, Simon Pegg as Journalist, Martin Coogan (possibly related to Steve Coogan) as Chris Nagle, X Factor's Rowetta Satchell, Doctor Who Christopher Eccleston as Boethius, R2-D2 as Kenny Baker as Zookeeper, John Johnny Rotten Lydon and Iggy Pop. I admit I did not watch the entire film, but what I did watch was quite good. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"The new champion!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Try as I might, I couldn't think of a single movie to beat this one, and believe me, there's very little else to do during 24 Hour Party People.  It is quite comfortably the worst movie I have ever seen!  I don't know how long it was, but it seemed to go on forever.  It appears that the writer thought you could get away with what boils down to no plot if you distract people with lots of scenes of people dancing to good music - and perhaps he is right, but there was no good music in this film whatsoever.  There should be a warning saying only to watch it if you don't mind having the Sex Pistols shout at you for long periods. None of the characters was likable, which is concerning since it is apparently based upon a real story, and I could find nothing interesting that made me want to carry on watching.  The absence of humour was covered with excessive and pointless swearing, as if that by itself was funny, including the highest use of the 'C' word of any film I've seen. I don't believe I've ever seen so many people leave during the film some after about 20 minutes (by which time I was well ready to leave, but thought I would give it a chance), and even some after about an hour (by which time I was considering suicide). If you like punk music, by all means see the film - it'll probably mean more to you than it did to me.  If not, and you have a sense of humour that doesn't include killing pigeons, I really wouldn't bother. This movie makes Bowfinger look like an exciting, original, and funny movie.  (Yeah, I didn't like that either, but for very different reasons - at least I didn't want to die whilst watching it.) "},{"Title":"Usual Sundance Claptrap","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As usual Sundance has given us yet another so-called masterpiece that manages to barely qualify as a movie.How long will it take for people to stop paying any attention to the Bad Movies 'R Us Film Festival also known as Sundance? Wait! Nobody pays any attention anymore except a few acquisitions people in Hollywood eager to justify their sky vacation.The reason the Sundance label now stands for lack of quality? Movies like this that look and feel like a home video without actual real people in them.Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  worst movie ive seen in a long time. the newspaper reviewed it as a movie which follows the sex pistols and company. little did i know it would be about the rave scene. i hate raves. my date fell asleep during this movie, I was tempted to sleep but the awful british accents and crappy music kept me awake. "},{"Title":"24 Hour Boredom","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie, or whatever it entails itself to be, is nothing but a collection of small parts that make it totally unreliable.  It is so boring, that one not only begins to hate British, because they are portrayed as chain smoking, cussing, whoring, sobs who do nothing but say the F word and sit on the cold sidewalk.  The film was supposed to be about the Factory record label which signed up one of the best bands of all time, Joy Division but as the actors are so terrible, all we get is the Ian Curtis look alike who does nothing but prance around the stage all day pretending to look cool.  This movie is not recommend to anyone at all because it isn't even a good tool for sleep. "}]