[{"Title":"Smell my shirt","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"54 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" For those of you who have seen this rather extraordinary romantic thriller noir, my review title is self-explanatory this is cinema verité for the 21st century. For those of you who haven't, let me note that this begins slowly, so stay with it. You won't regret it.What French director Jacques Audiard has done is create a taunt noir thriller with a romantic subplot intricately woven into the fabric of the main plot, told in the realistic and nonglamorous manner usually seen in films that win international awards. In fact, Sur mes lèvre did indeed win a Cesar (for Emmanuelle Devos) and some other awards. For Audiard character development and delineation are more important than action, yet the action is extremely tense. The romance is of the counter-cultural sort seen in films like, say, Kalifornia (1993) or Natural Born Killer (1994) or the Aussie Kiss or Kill (1997), a genre I call grunge love on the lam except that the principles here are not on the road (yet) and still have most of their moral compasses intact.Vincent Cessel and Emmanuelle Devos play the nonglamorous leads, Paul and Carla. Carla is a mousy corporate secretary--actually she's supposed to be mousy, but in fact is intriguing and charismatic and more than a wee bit sexy. But she is inexperienced with men, doesn't dance, is something of a workaholic who lives out a fantasy life home alone with herself. She is partially deaf and adept at reading lips, a talent that figures prominently in the story. She is a little put on by the world and likes to remove her hearing aid or turn it off. When she collapses from overwork her boss suggests she hire an assistant. She hires Paul, who is just out of prison, even though he has no clerical experience. He is filled with the sort of bad boy sex appeal that may recall Jean-Paul Belmondo in Godard's Breathless (1959) or even Richard Gere in the American remake from 1983. We get the sense that Carla doesn't realize that she hired him because she found him attractive. When Carla gets squeezed out of credit for a company deal, she gets Paul to help her turn the tables. From there it is but a step to a larger crime. Note that Carla is unconsciously getting Paul to prove his love for her (and his virility) by doing what she wants, working for her, appearing in front of her girl friends as her beau, etc.The camera work features tense, off-center closeups so that we see a lot of the action not in the center of our field of vision but to the periphery as in things partially hidden or overheard or seen out of the corner of our eyes. Audiard wants to avoid any sense of a set or a stage. The camera is not at the center of the action, but is a spy that catches just enough of what is going on for us to follow. Additionally, the film is sharply cut so that many scenes are truncated or even omitted and it is left for us to surmise what has happened. This has the effect of heightening the viewer's involvement, although one has to pay attention. Enhancing the staccato frenzy is a sparse use of dialogue. This works especially well for those who do not speak French since the distraction of having to follow the subtitles is kept to a minimum.Powering the film is a script that reveals and explores the unconscious psychological mechanisms of the main characters while dramatizing both their growing attraction to each other and their shared criminal enterprise. But more than that is the on-screen chemistry starkly and subtly developed by both Devos and Cessel. It is pleasing to note that the usual thriller plot contrivances are kept to a minimum here, and the surprises really are surprises.See this for Emmanuelle Devos whose skill and offbeat charisma more than make up for a lack of glamor, and for Vincent Cessel for a testosterone-filled performance so intense one can almost smell the leather jacket.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Deft, fresh crime story adds luster to director Jacques Audiard's name","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Sur mes Lèvres' (`Read My Lips') is so focused on its two main characters it's claustrophobic, but the payoff is that we get inside their lives and stay inside for a very concentrated and interesting 115 minutes.Jacques Audiard has crafted a unique character-driven crime movie with a fresh visual style and a compulsively watchable story.  Emmanuelle Devos won the César for her performance as Carla the deaf office worker, and she dominates the movie along with the sexy, sleazy Paul (Vincent Cassel), a recently paroled petty thief.  The movie is about their odd relationship -- mutual exploitation, let's call it -- and about the successful caper that results as well as Carla's newfound power at the busy property development company where she hires Paul, despite his complete lack of office skills, as her assistant.  It's obvious she's lonely and looks on this as a chance to get a man, but it's also a chance to have somebody to kick around the way she's been kicked around at the office, and, when she sees the value of it, a chance to use his muscle and menace to bolster her job.What neither of them anticipates is the way their mutual dependency and very different skills lead them into intimacy and crime -- not necessarily in that order.   Audiard, who co-scripted the film with Tonino Benacquista, and who's known for the richly entertaining `A Self-Made Hero' (`Un Héros Très Discret, 1996), adopts here a very selective, liquid, often claustrophobic way of filming and editing.  He uses a lot of tight close-ups, dark lighting, and fast cuts between scenes that are as rapid and unceremonious as Benoît Jacquot's in the 1998 `School of Flesh' (`L'École de la Chair'). We know we have to stay on our toes.  We're expected to pay close attention and do some thinking.We also often feel we're spying on people from Carla's point of view, as she does when she reads the lips of gossiping coworkers for herself (and later for Paul) at the office canteen, or when at Paul's prompting she uses binoculars to read lips in a gangland nightclub owner's apartment that Paul starts casing out after he's forced because of a debt to moonlight at the club. In her apartment we see her put on Paul's bloody shirt naked after he's been beaten, or try on sexy new shoes the same way, and again the camera angle is dark and close up so we only glimpse parts of her in the dirty mirror. (There's a parallelism between iris-ed images in the movie and Carla's limited hearing.) This is an intrusive, expressionistic camera, but the editing makes us maintain an alert distance as the plot moves from Carla's initially limited existence to its transformation by the explosive personality of Paul and the more and more dangerous embroilments that happen when the two become a mutually exploitive team.We keep seeing the characters enter into yet one more new scene that we sense is risky without quite knowing why.  Somehow we're detached and scared at the same time.  Paul and Carla each create a world of uncertainty and peril for each other.  There's a growing unease that turns into increasing excitement and danger, and finally there's Hitchcockian suspense effectively augmented by forceful cross-cutting between Carla watching the gangsters through the apartment windows after a heist and Paul manning the noisy nightclub bar, which now also has become a threatening place.The movie has flaws.  An airline ticket seems to have wings.  Carla is too magically able to carry out Paul's instructions, gathered only from a few hastily mouthed words lip-read between two buildings.  A subplot concerning Paul's parole officer (Olivier Perrier) is superfluous and confusing. Given that so much effective use is made of varying sound levels to convey Carla's hearing with and without her two hearing aids -- turned up, turned down, or removed -- the musical background score in non-nightclub scenes is obtrusive.But what's strong about this movie is that it has two actors with the power to dominate the screen, and a director who works with a lot of authority and freshness in presenting his vision.Emmanuelle Devos' characterization as the mousy but smart and persistent Carla is so rich and assured we may just take it for granted -- but the French film industry didn't, since they not only gave her the César, but did so in a year when the other contenders were Charlotte Rampling in `Sur la Sable,' Audrey Tautou in `Amélie,' and Isabelle Huppert in `La Pianiste. Vincent Cassel, who's said he's an instinctive actor, simply embodies his part  it's his prison tattoo, his sleazy mustache, his oily hair, and his tall, wiry, threatening physicality that make him both repulsive and sexy as Paul.  We experience here the powerful onscreen presence that's turned him into one of the hottest young film actors in France since he starred in Mattieu Kassovitz's `La Haine' in 1995.  (He was seen in the US last year in the enjoyable costume flick, `Le Pacte des Loups,' and is in a lot of new movies to come.)People are saying this is sure to lead to an American remake with big stars. Maybe so, but it's Audiard's vision that makes the picture interesting. All the Hollywood stars in the world won't take the place of Audiard's handheld camera and mercurial editing style, or a unique talent that combines sensitivity to the indignities of office workers and parolees with the ability to reinvent film noir tradition.Also unique -- and unlikely to survive an American remake -- is the repression of sexuality between Paul and Carla, which makes the sexual tension between them seem all the more powerful throughout this tightly constructed, economical movie.  "},{"Title":"Hitchcock With The Gloves Off","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" French film directors continue to amaze with their extraordinary ability to simulate the sights and sounds of ordinary, everyday suburban life. This was readily apparent with the release early in 2002 of L'Emploi du temps ( Time Out ) , a brilliant character study of of a white collar worker's descent into melancholy after having been fired from his job. As is the penchant of French filmmakers , many scenes were shot on real streets and in public places, giving a cinema verite feel to the story , yet L'Emploi du temps also possessed an elegant look thanks to excellent camera work and some stunning location footage ( most notably a Swiss mountain retreat ). Running fairly on the heels of that masterful movie comes another impressive French production, Jacques Audiard's gritty crime caper, Sur mes levres ( Read My Lips ). Actually, to tag this film a crime caper does it a disservice because it is so much more than that. As with the earlier French release, it is an incisive character study of marginal people using their wits to get ahead in a society that has turned its back on them. In a Paris construction firm Carla, a shy, diminutive young woman sits at her desk, sequestered to an area of the office that is a major pathway to the xerox machines and restrooms.Obnoxious coworkers use the front of Carla's desk to chat and drop off their half-finished Styrofoam cups of coffee. Partially deaf, Carla turns her hearing aids on and off at will if noise becomes bothersome, be it the drone of the paper copiers or the shrill crying of a friend's baby. When her boss calls her into the office to suggest that she hire a secretarial assistant to help her with the work load, Carla fears she may lose her job. At the employment office Carla lists the specifications she wants for her assistant (preferably male) as if she were at a Personals Agency. He should be 25 years old and clean -cut , with extensive computer and filing skills. When the agency sends over an unkempt , menacing looking young man, Carla is both shocked and intrigued. They leave the office and have lunch at a local eatery, where Carla interviews her prospective assistant. When she finds out that he has just gotten out of prison , Carla initially wants nothing to do with Paul, but has a change of heart and hires him on. Although she is basically kind toward her helper, Carla now finds herself in a position of authority and possessing a newfound sense of power. Paul learns quickly and becomes an able worker. Carla helps Paul find a temporary place to live and even covers for him when his parole officer shows up one day at the office wondering why Paul missed his appointment. During one of their lunch breaks Carla informs Paul of her hearing deficiency and reveals her ability to read lips. Later, when an avaricious coworker blatantly takes over a project Carla has been working on, a furious Carla asks Paul's help in seeking revenge on the man. From here on in Sur mes levres becomes an increasingly intense crime drama escalating into some of the most violently graphic scenes that have been shown on the screen in recent years. The screenplay borrows elements from Hitchcock, most notably REAR WINDOW, where Carla's lip-reading talent comes into full play using a pair of binoculars. There is a teasing, on-again, off-again sexual attraction between the two protagonists that culminates in a rather strange homage to NORTH BY NORTHWEST, but it works because of the considerable sexual heat that builds slowly between the two stars. That being said, what one carries away from this movie isn't so much the similarities to classic Hitchcock thrillers, although those elements are definitely there, but the pervasive view a of a modern day city (in this case Paris) where life runs the gamut from mundane workdays to a boozy, garish nightlife where sex, drugs and laundered money infiltrate the lives of several characters. Unlike Hollywood productions, this is a psychological suspense yarn where the people look like the everyday man and woman on the street, where a punch in the face or groin sounds like a sickening thud and where the office is a place to be feared. It's Hitchcock with the gloves off. "},{"Title":"What A Wonderful Film","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie over the span of two days. The whole day after watching the first part, I was distracted by recollections of the imagery and just basic feel of the movie and couldn't wait to see the rest.It was so refreshing to see a movie with a captivating plot and sensuality without excessive sexuality. The directing and editing tied everything together wonderfully. Definitely a nail-biter towards the end and fast-paced enough to keep one interested but not so much so that it leaves one confused. I can't think of anything negative to say about it. If only they made movies this good in America these days..... "},{"Title":"Long Live Le Film Noir!!","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you're a fan of film noir and think they don't make 'em like they used to, here is your answer - they just don't make 'em in Hollywood anymore. We must turn to the French to remember how satisfying a well-made film from that genre can be. Read My Lips is a wonderfully nasty little gift to the faithful from director Jacques Audiard, featuring sharp storytelling and fine performances from Emmanuelle Devos and Vincent Cassel.The basic plot could have been written in the 40's dumb but appealing ex-con and a smart but dowdy femme fatale (who turns out to be ruthlessly ambitious) discover each other while living lives of bleak desperation and longing, manipulate each other to meet their own ends, develop complex love/hate relationship, cook up criminal scheme involving heist, double crosses, close calls and lots of money. All action takes place in depressing, seedy and/or poorly lit locations. Audiard has fashioned some modern twists, of course. The femme fatale is an under-appreciated office worker who happens to be nearly deaf and uses her lip reading ability to take revenge on those who marginalize her. And where you might expect steamy love scenes you discover that both characters are sexually awkward and immature. Add in a bit of modern technology and music and it seems like a contemporary film, but make no mistake - this is old school film noir. It's as good as any film from the genre and easily one of the best films I've seen all year. "},{"Title":"A Breath of French Air","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was one of the DVD's I recently bought in a set of six called Frenchfilm to brush up our French before our planned holiday in beautiful Provence this year. So far, as well as improving our French we have considerably enhanced our appreciation of French cinema.What a breath of fresh air to the stale, predictable, unimaginative, crash bang wallop drivel being churned out by Hollywood. What a good example for screenplay writers, actors, directors and cinematographers to follow. It was so stimulating also to see two identifiable characters in the lead roles without them having to be glossy magazine cover figures. The other thing I liked about this film was the slow character and plot build up which kept you guessing as to how it was all going to end. Is there any real good in this selfish thug who continually treats his seemingly naïve benefactor with the type of contempt that an ex-con would display? Will our sexually frustrated poor little half deaf heroine prove herself to the answer to her dreams and the situation that fate has bestowed upon her? The viewer is intrigued by these questions and the actors unravel the answers slowly and convincingly as they face events that challenge and shape their feeling towards each other.Once you have seen this film, like me you may want to see it again. I still have to work out the director's psychological motive for the sub plot in the role of the parole officer and some of the subtle nuances of camera work are worth a second look. The plot does ask for a little imagination when our hero is given a chance to assist our misused and overworked heroine in the office. You must also be broad minded to believe in her brilliant lip reading and how some of the action falls into place. But if you go along for the thrilling ride with this example of French cinema at its best you will come out more than satisfied. Four stars out of five for me. "},{"Title":"There is no reason for not believing in the quality of this movie","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I must admit that I had my doubts about this movie before I was going to watch it. The main reason for that is because it was compared to a Hitchcock movie. I've seen several movies that were said to be inspired by Hitchcock or that could have been made by the 'Master of Suspense' himself, but so far I haven't seen any of these movie that would be able to stand the test of time. In my opinion Hitchcock has become a household name which is too easily used to promote some (cheap) thrillers, but on the other hand I must admit that I was intrigued by it because this is a European movie. Normally it's the big Hollywood studios who like to abuse Hitchcock's name if that can raise their income. But this movie was made in one of the most chauvinistic European countries ever and I'm sure that most French would rather drop dead than to admit that their movies have been inspired by an Englishman. That's why I decided to give this movie a try and I must say that I'm glad that I did.Sur mes lèvres or Read my Lips as it is called in English, tells the story of a young secretary named Carla. She is a hardworking and loyal employee, but has never been very appreciated by her colleagues. That has much to do with the fact that she suffers from a hearing deficiency, which has denied her to climb up on the hierarchical ladder of the company. But when she is allowed to hire a trainee that can work for her, all this is about to change. Paul Angeli is a 25 year old and completely unskilled ex-convict. The man is a thief, but Carla gives him a chance and covers for him when needed. She hopes to teach him what a regular life should look like, but at the same time he drags her with him in his old life...Since I still believe that the name Hitchcock is used too often to describe a very good thriller - which this movie definitely is - I will not make any comparisons between Hitchcock and Jacques Audiard's directing. Fact is that the man has done a really good job with this movie. I hadn't heard of him before, but it is true that he knows how to build up suspense and how to keep you interested from the beginning until the end. That also has a lot to do with the very fine and original story of course. I doubt if there is someone in Hollywood who has ever come up with the idea of using a handicapped woman in a powerful role, instead of making her the helpless subject of an abusive husband (you know, the typical TV-movie story).Also worth noticing is the acting in this movie. Vincent Cassel is quite famous, but Emmanuelle Devos was a complete mystery to me. There is absolutely nothing glamorous about their roles, but they both did an excellent job with their characters, making them feel very believable and realistic. Paul could have been the average tough guy right out of jail and Carla the typically helpless woman, but thanks to their performances, you really believe that these are two strong people who both have had some bad luck in life but who will make the best out of it together.All in all this is a powerful movie with a very fine script and some excellent acting. Despite the fact that I had my doubts about it, I've soon become one of its greatest admirers. I give this movie an 8/10. Don't hesitate to give it a try. "},{"Title":"An Engrossingly Original French Thriller","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I settled back to watch Read My Lips, a plate of Freedom Fries before me. The food was quickly forgotten as I became engrossed by director and co-writer Jacques Audiard's original and superb thriller.Carla (Emmanuelle Devos) is a secretary at a firm that develops major building projects. She actually has some significant responsibilities that don't often fall to secretaries and she's capable and ambitious. And thwarted by a male hierarchy that will exploit but not reward her.Work piling up faster than she can handle it, Carla is told to hire a secretary. Enter ex-con and general layabout Paul (Vincent Cassel). He lies about his skills and in fact has none that any legitimate enterprise might require. After an initial serious misunderstanding by Paul as to Carla's interest in him, the two become allies. A quirky friendship starts. In a stunt that would have made a real Carla a major contender on The Apprentice, she trumps her egotistic male adversary at work with Paul's connivance. Exit the rival.Carla is virtually deaf without her hearing aid. With it she hears almost normally. She turns the hearing aid off to isolate herself from unpleasant sounds and annoying people. She's also very lonely. A heroic makeup effort was made to have her appear plain but she's truly beautiful. She hasn't a boyfriend. She babysits so a friend can have a liaison (it IS a French movie) Worse and humiliatingly, she accedes to a girlfriend's plea that she hang out somewhere while that married friend has it off with her paramour in Carla's bed. Not nice.As Carla and Paul get to know each other better, the barely repressed larcenous side of the not so former felon emerges. There's a side story, by the way, of Paul's relationship with his parole officer which neatly complements the main plot and has its own big surprise ending.Read My Lips? Ingenious Paul recognizes that Carla's ability to read lips, even from a considerable distance, is more than the amusing parlor trick it first seems to be.From there a caper develops. Enough said.Paul and Carla are a true criminal oddball couple. She wants love but will also accept money. He wants her, sort of, but business must come before possible erotic satiation. Together Cassel and Devos are strong actors carrying an unusual crime tale to its end very convincingly.Rent it or buy it but if you enjoy a good crime story you'll go for Read My Lips. And you may well want to watch it several times I do.9/10  "},{"Title":"A gripping character-driven psychodramatic caper flick","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Read My Lips tells of a strange symbiosis which develops between a plain, socially maladroit female office worker  (Devos) and her workplace trainee, a crude excon (Casel). As the film fleshes out this unlikely duo down to their ids they become embroiled in a chilling merging of the minds, each using the other for their own selfish reasons with an extraordinary outcome. Good stuff for anyone into character-driven films with strong psychodramatic undercurrents. In French with easy to read subtitles and good translation. (B+) "},{"Title":"Fascinating and compelling storytelling","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I picked this one up on a whim from the library, and was very pleasantly surprised. Lots of tight, expressionistic camera work, an equally tight script, and two superb actors all meld together to make one very fine piece of film. Not for the reptilian multiplex brain, but rather the true aficionado of cinema. If Hollywood ever does get its grimy hands on it, I'm sure it will ruin it. A choice treat all the way around. Other posters here have more than amply sung its praises, so I needn't bother duplicating their paeans; just take their advice, and mine, and don't miss this gem. Call it what you like; I call it two hours of entertainment well-spent. Read my lips don't miss it. "}{"Title":"Great except for the message.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Interesting characters, lots of tension.  As close to black and white without being black and white.  I was turned off by how casually the supposedly sympathetic mainstream character, a quiet, near deaf secretary,  was able to turn to crime to ruin colleagues, rough up people in her way and finally participate in a heist, and set up someone to be bumped off as a decoy to her own get-away.  I'm a little put off by the trend for otherwise quality movies to portray criminals in a sympathetic way without addressing the injury they've done to others other than to portray their immediate opponents as jerks.  In this film we never know who's money it really is they abscond with, or what happens to the innocent wife who the sympathetic deaf-secretary uses to set up the of the sleazy bar owner to take the fall for the missing loot.  Too bad, the film could have been great. "},{"Title":"Visual Narrative","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The point is always how to tell stories through the eye and not the ear, through images rather than dialog. Jacques Audiard places that notion in both the manner of telling this story and the story itself.The framing is subtle. On the viewers' side, our surrogate is the parole officer whose job it is to spy on Paul. That role as spy would shift to Carla as the story moves and the camera shifts among watching her, giving her POV or describing what she knows or may know. The oft-cited reference to `Rear Window' is not apt. That camera was anchored. that camera was architecturally motivated, not personally. That camera never shifted into a character's mind.But the attention to the parole officer is what makes this particularly intelligent. His own angst anchors the film, which is to remind us that the motivation behind every shot in the film is shared between us and what we see. To underscore, the camera is unsteady, uses (apparently) available light, is sometimes fuzzily irised. That irising and blurring is as likely to reflect some perceptual confusion or ourselves as it is by Carla or Paul. A similar, more obvious `blurring' is managed with the hearing aids.On the other side of the framing is an attempted rape. This scene is filmed realistically, unlike everything else which moves through a genre-world. I am increasingly aware of the power of framing devices to define our experience, and this is done well.As with many intimate films, viewers credit the actors. This is a big mistake in my view. They are good enough here, but the power comes from the eye and the manipulation of the mind. Cassel is an automatic actor, but then he plays an automatic character.Emmanuelle Devos knows how to intercourse with the camera. She responds as much to the movement of the camera as to movement within the `official' action. Her eyes. Follow her eyes.Ted's Rating -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"You'll have to wait for the inevitable of course. Worth it.","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a typical French drama, which means you'll have to wait for the inevitable of course; but on the other hand, if you're use to this genre, you may not expect the inevitable to occur. It does. There, I just spoiled it; you were warned. If you are a Jacques Audiard fan, as I am, you will not be disappointed. Each film directed by the man has rewarded my expectations.Carla, played by Emmanuelle Devos, is a near totally deaf employee at a major construction and development firm where only her supervisor appears to have noticed her talent and dedication, whereas her co-workers see her with a different and biased eye. She manages with a hearing aid and by putting in more work than anyone else. Her boss recognizing this assigns her an intern, which she can pick herself. She picks Paul, an ex-convict, played by fame international star Vincent Cassel; I assumed the character of Carla was sympathetic to underdog Paul for obvious reasons, but I realized soon enough it was because he took her seriously and felt some degree of gratitude when she goes beyond what he expected and finds him accommodations on top of making sure he keeps his job. Paul has a much different outlook on life. When he notices she reads lips, he puts two and two together and sees the potential for spying on a gang of criminals who he wants to rip-off. He convinces her to do this for him and she very reluctantly obliges, having developed for him feelings, not reciprocated until the very end of the movie.The caper does not go all that well and almost fails; were it not for Carla putting herself at risk to get Paul what he wanted, he would have not only lost his chance, but also his life. That was all that was needed for him to wake up to the love of the woman meant for him. I'm just a sucker for those kinds of movies and if you liked my synopsis, you'll like the movie. "},{"Title":"Paul & Carla A Noir Love Story","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After erasing my thoughts nearly twenty-seven times, there is a feeling that I can now conquer this review for the complex French drama, Read My Lips. Having written over five hundred reviews, I have never found myself at such a loss of words as I did with director Jacques Audiard's subtle, yet inspirational love story. Thought was poured over what was loved and hated about this film, and while the loves overpowered, it was the elements that were hated that sparked further debate within my mind. Read My Lips is a drama. To be more precise, is a character driven drama which fuses social uncertainty with crime lords with the doldrums of everyday office work. Here is where this review begins to crumble, it is all of these items &#x96; but it is more&#x85;much, much more. As a viewer, you are pulled in instantly by Emmanuelle Devos' portrayal of this fragile woman named Carla, whose strength is lost to the males in her office as well as her hearing difficulty. Audiard introduces us harshly to her world by removing sound from the screen whenever she is not wearing her aid, causing an immediate unrest, not only from the characters within the film, but to those watching. Without sound, the world is left open to any possibility, and that is frightening.As we watch this difficult and unsettling woman setting into her life, we are then uprooted and given the opportunity to meet Paul (played exquisitely by Vincent Cassel), a slicked-back hair, mustache-wearing lanky man who was just released from prison, homeless, jobless, and forced by his parole officer to get a job. This is how Carla and Paul meet. There is that moment of instant, unsettling attraction. The one where we think she loves him, but he is dark (and here is where it gets even more fun) &#x96; and where we think he loves her, but she is dark. The constant role reversal creates the tone of the unknown. Who, as viewers, are we to feel the most sympathy for? Paul sleeps in the office, Carla helps him; Carla looses a contract to a rival co-worker, Paul helps her; Carla's ability to read people's lips comes in handy for a make-shift idea for Paul. The continual jumps back and forth keep you on your chair, waiting for the possibility of some light to shine through this dark cave. It never does. Audiard cannot just allow this story to take place, he continually introduces us to more characters; one just as seedy as the next. Even our rock, our solid foundation with the parole officer is in question when his wife goes missing &#x96; a subplot to this film that at first angered me, but upon further debate was a staple finale for this film. Yet none of this could have happened if it weren't for our characters. Devos' solemn and homely look is breathtaking, as she changes her image for Paul; the truth of her beauty is discovered. Paul, the wildcard in the film, continues to seemingly use and abuse the friendship for his final endgame. Then, just as we assume one, Carla takes on one last shape.Audiard knows he has amazing actors capturing his characters. Cassel and Devos could just play cards the entire time and I would still be sitting at the end of my chair. The story, probably the weakest part of this film, is at first random. The interwoven stories seem unconnected at first, but Audiard lets them connect bit by bit. Again, the entire parole officer segment was tangent, but that final scene just solidified the ends to the means. Not attempting to sound vague, but this complex (yet utterly simple) story is difficult to explain. There is plenty happening, but it is up to you to connect the pieces. A favorite scene is when Carla is attempting to discover where some money is being held. That use of sound and scene was brilliant. It was tense, it was dramatic, and it was like watching a who-dun-it mystery unfold before your eyes.Overall, I initially though this was a mediocre French film that I could easily forget about when it was over &#x96; I was proved wrong. Read My Lips opens the floor for discussion, not just with the characters, but the situations. One will find themselves rooting for Carla in one scene, and Paul in the next. When a discovery is made in Paul's apartment by Carla, I found myself deeply angry. Audiard brought true emotion to the screen with his characters and development, and what he was lacking in plot &#x96; the actors were able to carry. I can easily suggest this film to anyone, but be prepared; this isn't a one time viewing film. Repeat. Repeat. Repeat.Grade **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Prelude to a heist film","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is very good, although the subtitles leave a little to be desired (mainly by  skipping lines occasionally). The acting is quite good and the characters are consistent  and compelling. Although the actress playing the deaf woman speaks too clearly to  portray the character as deaf as she is said to be, she pulls off the role well enough. A  small deus ex machina at the end is offset by an odd side story that doesn't make any  sense until the final scenes. Although this is a French film with a non-Hollywood sense  of pacing and camerawork, it should appeal even to those who don't like French film. "},{"Title":"Who hasn't wished one had the chance to get even at a workmate?","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Somebody wrote here that these actors wouldn't have been chosen by american standards. And who cares about Hollywood standards when films like Kangaroo Jack and Old School come out of it?I am sick of movies playing with the intelligence of the viewer. Who says that I need to see something stupid to be entertained? European, Chinese, Iranian cinemas are the answer to that.Sur mes levres is a very entertaining film but also challenges the mind. I found it very clever, fair paced and very rewarding. It was hard to guess what was coming next. And also it's a good study of human  nature. We are never completely bad nor completely good. It just depends on the situation. We could see that when Carla demanded Paul to help her revenge on her workmate, it wasn't him who suggested it but her. So I don't think that he influenced her, it was just something she had inside her. The situations were all so real, I am sure that everyone who works in an office has felt what she felt. And who didn't wish to have the chance to get even at a workmate?  "},{"Title":"An Olympian start ... but a Pedestrian finish","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***** SPOILERS ******With 32 reviews at 7/20/2003 and growing, there is little to add.  My sad report is that this film falls apart after the the 70% mark.  It is great in the main, but NOT great all the way through.Its pluses are good energy, sound shaping, camera and lighting, and until the proverbial shark-jump, terrific editing and direction.  A very interesting choice of protagonists  imagine a THOMAS CROWN AFFAIR or a BONNIE & CLYDE without pretty people.But then when the stage is all set for Paul to rip-off Marchand drug money (?) at a questionable dance club, under the general advice and guidance of the more intelligent lip-reading Carla, one editing mistake follows on the heels of another.  The gangster scenes are tedious and clumsy and the plot itself wallows in indecision.One reviewer asks about a sub-text  Paul's parole officer's wife goes missing early in the film.  Is this a distraction?  Why do we care?  I found it, yes, distracting, but clearly it was a signal in case we didn't get the film's point from other cues.For a cautious woman like Carla to venture out, to walk on the wild side, to cross the line, turns out not to be such a moral leap after all.  Because the parole officer -- the epitome of legality and moral rectitude, turned out to be a greater criminal even than the ex-felon that he was charged with supervising.  A profound counter-point it certainly was not!For those who have seen it and want a one sentence plot analogy, this film could be compared, loosely, to the Heather Graham/Luke Wilson misfire, COMMITTED (2000).  Thrill to the best parts, snack and chat through the laborious ending.  French cinema is still as inventive and courageous as ever. "},{"Title":"French noir","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As usual the French are ploughing ahead with the most interesting films. The lead actress is superb and I enjoyed the way Audiard visualised her deafness by focusing in on small details and vignetting the picture severely. It was a beautiful film to watch and their relationship though initially perhaps unbelievable grew in the mind to the point where it was inevitable. I enjoyed the office scenes and the mundanity of it which is so often overlooked in (American) films or diffused with poor humour. By the end of the film we know Carla very well, such is the strength of the script and director. A complicated character I enjoyed spending time with performed by a great actress Emmanuelle Devos. Cassel was great as he always is.  "},{"Title":"Character-fulled film noir","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Read My Lips (Spoiler)A critic described the storyline of this movie as an existential version of Bonnie and Clyne - the protagonists are off the rails but without the bravado. Carla (Emmanuelle Devos) would not have been the first frumpish doormat to have become involved with a younger man of dubious character and them done something out of character herself, but we get a full understanding of why it has happened. We also get a fair amount of suspense and plenty of film noir atmosphere in some less desirable parts of Paris.Emmanuelle Devos' performance as the hearing-impaired Carla is quite awesome- every close-up is made to count and her range of expressions is immense. She is helped a great deal by the sound-track which often allows us to `hear' things from her point of view. Vincent Cassel as Paul, the ex-con she almost perversely hires as an office assistant who becomes her partner in crime, puts in a very solid performance. Paul is not overbright but also quite quick-thinking on occasion. In fact he's a lot more at home behind a bar than in an office. Vincent Cassel has wary self-confidence down pat - you know this guy is trouble.I didn't get the point about the sub-plot involving Paul's probation officer and his missing wife - it didn't seem to add anything to the story. The atmosphere in Carla's office was very authentic, as was her treatment as the office doormat. Happily, she gets a modicum of revenge on some of the bastards.This raises the central question of a movie like this are the protagonists worthy of our sympathy? Their heist seems to be stealing money off some bad guys (drugs maybe). Carla is certainly not violent and Paul gets more than he gives. Are we entitled to a happy ending? We get one, but at least two crooks get killed. I'm not sure, but this is the best character-driven thriller I've seen for a long time.  "},{"Title":"A Thoroughly Engaging High-Stakes Thriller","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Read My Lips, directed by Jacques Audiard from a screenplay by Mr. Audiard and Tonino Benacquista, is a film that works on many levels as a black comedy, a heart-pounding thriller, a psychological drama, and simply as a thoroughly engaging movie. Emmanuelle Devos (winner of last years Cesar Award for Best Actress) turns in a brilliant performance as Carla, a hearing impaired, emotionally reserved office assistant for a property development company. Ms. Devos is wonderfully assisted by Vincent Cassel who is near perfect in the role of Paul Angeli, a surly, dim-witted thief just out of prison for armed robbery. Feeling unappreciated by her overbearing male colleagues, Carla hires Paul as her assistant, although she knows or suspects that he is unqualified for the job. Audiard describes the theme of the film as An unattractive, intelligent woman meets a handsome, stupid man. Separately, they are nothing, they are outsiders; together, they are powerful.The director conveys Carla's experience with sound by making the volume loud and clear when her hearing aid is in, and muffled when it's not. Carla uses her ability to read lips to listen to others conversations and her hearing device to turn off sound she does not want to hear. Carla's deafness, however, is just one facet of her character and Audiard does not use it to pluck our heartstrings.Paul soon learns that he owes a debt to a violent nightclub owner, Marchand (Olivier Gourmet) and makes a deal with him where, in lieu of payment, he will work behind the bar in his sleazy nightclub. Both outsiders in society, Carla and Paul slowly develop a bond and a barely understood dependency on each other and become a very efficient team in dealing with dangerous opponents. She persuades Paul to steal some papers from a male co-worker who has usurped one of her projects. Paul, in turn, plans to rob Marchand (who is planning a major heist) and uses Carla's skill at lip reading to spy on him from a rooftop across the street. The results are both startling and unpredictable.Read My Lips is a noir-ish high-stakes thriller with plots and sub-plots, passion and double-cross, and multiple twists and turns that leave the viewer breathless. There are no caricatures at play here. The strength of the film lies in the beautifully drawn characters whose lives become more deeply interwoven with every challenge. Read My Lips can be a wild ride but I think you'll very much like where it takes you.  "}{"Title":"Read between the lines","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Put yourself into Carla's shoes. She is an overworked, unappreciated administrative drudge who is invisible. You know her she's trained three of her last three bosses, knows where all of the bodies are buried and might even look back at you in the mirror when you brush your teeth. Always having time for another thankless task and does it better than most despite a serious disability, she has the desk on the way to the restroom that becomes the repository of half-finished cups of coffee begging to be spilled.  What? You don't want to hear it? Well, she can't and neither can you until your hearing aid is in place. Prepare to experience life from the perspective of the hearing impaired.Carla (Emmanuelle Devos) needs a change in her life. Work is leading nowhere; friends are relying on her to meet their domestic needs and the only way out starts with a collapse that goes virtually unnoticed. She won't take a vacation - a contract is going critical - so the only alternative is to hire an assistant. Carla submits requirements that convey her real needs a 'well-groomed' man. This brings an applicant for approval that reminds us that we should be careful with our wishes. Paul (Vincent Cassell) does everything wrong from the start of his job interview and his getting hired clearly demonstrates Carla's interest in his non-job-related qualities. She sees potential in this former thief and as the story unfolds, their relationship grows in a very unusual pattern of co-dependence. Paul has a difficult transition returning to the world outside of prison walls and finds himself in another sort of prison one of the office variety and another of indentured servitude to pay off an old debt. His skills as a thief help Carla win a political battle in the office. But Paul sees a grander opportunity with Carla's skill in lip reading and draws her even further into a world of intrigue.This is a brutal film noir unrated and probably suitable for older teens. Carla grows more powerful, professionally as well as personally, as the story progresses and her disability gives her clear advantages over the rest of us. She grows as a woman discovering her sensual side while she uses her resources to overcome the obstacles of competing in a man's world.The two main characters are meant for each other, in a strange way. Without Paul, Carla will remain in her role of a doormat.  She has our sympathy, hopes and best wishes even if she doesn't make the best decisions along the way. You will hear the world through Carla's ears, from awkward adjustments of your hearing aid, muffled sounds, all but inaudible without it to relatively distinct voices when you can see who's talking.  With one major sense disabled, we see Carla's heightened intuitive power to compensate. And we can all use that sense to hear not only what people say, but also what they really mean.  "},{"Title":"A well writen and complex film which contains superb acting","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vincent Cassel plays the part of Paul, an ex-con assigned to an office job where he meets Carla, a secretary who is &#145;quite deaf', when she has her hearing aids in &#145;very deaf&#145; when not (played by Emmanuelle Devos).  Together they help each other to develop as people.What was particularly interesting about this film was the complexity of the characters &#150; not fitting into obvious stereotypes.  Paul appears uneasy in the office environment, is it that he's just not cut out for work?  This belief is dispelled when he gets a job in a bar and shines.The film has a certain amorality which I find refreshing and showed how easy is to act criminally, even if we think it is harmless or justified.Finally, it is a film full of great &#145;moments' both touching and humorous.  One is when Carla is babysitting and is trying to comfort a screaming baby.  She continues to cuddle it &#150; but takes her hearing aids out for her own comfort.  "},{"Title":"A gripping and surprising film","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sur mes lèvres is an excellent surprise. The co-writer and director managed to play with the codes (film noir, office movie, romantic comedy, thriller) without falling prey to stereotypes. Vincent Cassel is one of those amazing actors who can be beautiful and powerful in some movies (e.g. The Brotherhood of wolves) and be ugly and rejected with similar ease (The Hatred or in this movie). The overall mood of the movie is black, but it has many incredibly funny moments, and does not try to be realistic all the way. Like other reviewers, I would not be surprised to see the script adapted by Hollywood for the American market, with all the zest gone (Julia Roberts as the female lead, Tom Cruise as the sexy intern, etc)... Here the characters are totally believable but not common, and the theme of deafness is explored with much depth. Worth several viewings, no doubt. "},{"Title":"Superb thriller.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Surely one the French films of the decade so far, a taut, atmospheric thriller making full use of the lead characters hearing impediment to use sound in a way rarely explored in cinema. Emannuelle Devos gives a truly stunning , multi-faceted performance, at times devious and manipulative, at other times open and vulnerable. Another reason why those who appreciate quality cinema should keep their eyes open for offerings from France. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The French seem to consistently adapt film noir to contemporary film-making and this is one of the best. Audiard is back on form. The two leads are excellent (is Cassell ever bad?). You have the sense of their desperation, and desire to better and/or excite their lives. This film will be remade in Hollywood with 101 twists, and will be lame. "},{"Title":"Compelling French thriller","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was totally engrossed in this film from the first to last minute. It is brilliantly shot, with lots of interesting and original camera angles and techniques employed. The plot surrounds a deaf woman who is picked on by friends and colleagues alike. She hires an assistant at work, with her true intention being to find love. He's an ex-con and she takes advantage of him to wreak revenge on those who have hurt her. In return she must help him with a heist that requires her lip reading skills to pull it off. The film transcends into a dark film noir, with a couple of truly excellent scenes, and an even better finale. The real beauty in this film comes from the way the director takes advantage of the leading character's disability. The use of sound keeps the tension consistent, and the dramatic shifts from silence to noise keeps the blood pumping, that's for sure. Throw in a little black comedy and undertones of erotic sexual repression you've got the makings of a great film. It's the sort of film Hollywood really wants to make, but just can't. "},{"Title":"wonderful, eerie, original Film Noir","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  wonderful French film noir, whose perhaps greatest idea is to set a Noir-ish tale in a world of dreary offices and daily misdemeanours.Add to the mix a wonderful female lead (a deaf, underappreciated secretary) whose life takes an unexpected turn after hiring an assistant; a good male lead (a former thief freshly released from prison who becomes her office assistant - and then something more dangerous); two good actors (Emmanuelle Devos and Vincent Cassel in absolute no glamour mode); a well-crafted screenplay; fresh, edgy dialogue; simple and effective direction...French people are so lucky to still have good genre movies that manage to make strong statements about society. "},{"Title":"sexual/psychological suspense film with absurd romantic notions","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  film is terrific suspenser with vivid believable characters and nifty twisty plot. music and sound design add greatly to film's effectiveness. however, the underlying assumption that plain jane lead can only find love and fulfillment by slavishly chasing thuggish love interest, joining him in dangerous criminal activities, and ignoring his repeated betrayals and rejections until she finally breaks through to his heart of gold is laughable if not actually despicable. women with high self esteem beware.  "},{"Title":"Not so keen with it.","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched it back in 2005.I wrote a review in Portuguese at that time, that I translate here to English. Note that I'm Deaf, so I have my perspective biased toward how Deaf people feel when seeing somewhat fake-deaf movies.Interpretation was not that though. Of course I wouldn't do better, but the movie lacks a lot of how a Deaf person really feels the world. Some parts of the movie where created just to illustrate but they don't correspond to the reality. As an example the hearing aids have a power off button, so there is no need to constantly remove them from the ears! I think that doing things clearly wrong just to have someone understand something is not the good way of doing things.After half the movie watched, I started feeling that the pseudo-deafness of the actress, incredibly put in a job where what you most see is she participating in meetings and answering phone calls (LOL! You probably would never see a real Deaf working in such a job) was just a pretext to justify the lip reading capacity. I'm Deaf for almost 30 years, I do (I'm forced to, anyway) a lot of lip reading every day and I can assure you that it's not possible to read lips the way she does in the movie (at very long distances and in very bad conditions). There are highly trained men (e.g. in intelligence services) that are able to do something like that, but not that easy.Other wrong thing in the movie is that the actress is show to be not keen with Deaf Community. Although it is true that many deaf people is so ashamed of their condition that they reject the Deaf Community, it is also true that deaf people in these conditions are not proficient with sign language. How can someone that never signs and systematically avoids Deaf Community be so good in signing? It seemed to me like those old movies where all Asiatics know martial arts.About the story itself, it was not that special. Someone decided that mixing a fake deaf with some nude scenes, a tattooed criminal, a mafia-like crew and some examples of discrimination and the moralized replies would make a good film, then did it.I confess that I laugh in many parts of the movie, wondering if they did the entire makeup without even consulting a true Deaf person.Rui "},{"Title":"Uniquely French, universally fantastic","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Probably the best film of the year for me. This small French film centers on put upon office secretary Carla (Emmanuelle Devos) who spends her days doing other men's jobs, uncredited, and being the source of their scorn and lunchtime conversation which is all too clear to her as, being partially deaf, she reads lips. A change is set in motion when she hires newly paroled con Paul (Vincent Cassel) as her assistant. The relationship which develops between them is the centre of the film. Mutual dependency, for vastly different reasons, bonds them. Carla becomes attracted to Paul and to the fact that he makes her feel attractive for,what seems like,the first time. Paul does nothing to dispel her feelings because he needs her help. He owes money to a local gangster and forms a plan to steal from him which will involve Carlas' skill of reading lips. I think the main thing that pushes the film way above an average suspense/drama is the amazing chemistry between the two stars. Throughout the whole film, no matter what other characters are on screen, you can feel this amazing bond between Carla and Paul. I cannot remember when I have witnessed such sexual chemistry between two actors. Emmanuell Devos gives a brilliant performance (she won the French Cesar for best actress). You never feel like you are watching a piece of acting, this really is Carla. The chameleon like Vincent Cassel is also wonderful. He makes a somewhat unappealing character both appealing and attractive. I loved this film because of these two people, and both times when I had finished watching it I wanted to go back into the cinema and become involved with them all over again.     "}{"Title":"Partially disabled lonely heart turned bad girl joins forces with ex-con sociopath in French version of 'Bonnie and Clyde'","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Carla is a partially deaf woman who works in an office at a real estate firm in Paris. I was a bit unsure as to whether I found Carla to be wholly believable. She's one of those lonely hearts who somehow is sexually repressed. Her lack of confidence is explained by her handicap as well as constantly being made fun of by her co-workers. She is so stressed out that she ends up fainting on the job, which leads her boss (who unlike the intolerant co-workers) offers to hire an assistant for her. The arrival of the assistant, Paul, a parolee, is the film's inciting incident.Carla begins her Act 2 journey tied to Paul, who makes it quite clear that office work just isn't his 'thing'. Carla at first plays hard to get with bad boy Paul due to that sexual repression. Even if you buy the idea that no-so-bad-looking Carla is clueless when it comes to men, she has no guilt feelings about moving up in the office hierarchy. Ironically, it's not the amoral Paul who urges her to come up with the idea of stealing a co-worker's file, leading to the co-worker's resignation--it's actually Carla herself! As a result, mousy little Carla is promoted from secretary to project manager. After Carla finds Paul a place to stay, an apartment under construction, owned by her firm&#x97;she makes it clear that she no longer has any fear of the fledging sociopath when boldly stating to him You owe me.While Vincent Cassell is fairly convincing as Paul, the character could have used a bit more humor. He just was a little too one-note for me, although Cassell does well in establishing Paul as truly menacing. The rest of 'Read my lips' chronicles Carla's defection to the 'dark side' as she transforms herself into the amoral counterpart of her bad boy love interest. Carla's transformation takes place gradually&#x97;she puts on a sexy outfit but almost gets herself raped outside a nightclub, only to be saved by Paul who is now beginning to show a 'sensitive' side. Now it's Carla's turn to pay Paul back for his 'good deed' and agrees to hang out on a rooftop, clutching a pair of binoculars, and attempting to read the lips of Paul's new boss, Marchand, and his sleazy associates, so that Paul may discover if they're plotting a crime, which ultimately might give him a chance to rip them off.While the whole idea that Carla is actually able to read the lips of people through binoculars seems a bit dubious, I was willing to suspend my disbelief with the hope that the second half of Act 2, your basic caper story, picked up. Some of it's clever, as a plane ticket apparently is the Macguffin here, with Carla breaking into Marchand's apartment and planting the ticket inside his coat&#x97;thus leading his associates to believe that Marchand has double crossed them, stealing their money and then apparently buying the ticket with plans to leave the country. As it turns out, it's Carla and Paul who have pulled off the heist and leave Marchand holding the proverbial bag. Not all of it's clear as Marchand and company attack each other off screen and we never get to learn who exactly is killed and who survives.The film's denouement is a big letdown as it becomes clear that director Jacques Audiard's sympathies lie more with the criminal element than with a law abiding citizenry. At first one wonders if Audiard is merely presenting a film noir-like tale of an amoral couple 'getting away' with a crime without being punished. That works in a film like 'Chinatown', since the film's scenarists are not making a statement, approving of the amoral characters' behavior but merely chronicling a sordid verisimilitude. In 'Read my Lips', however, Audiard's 'Carla and Paul' have become the French version of 'Bonnie and Clyde'.Carla finally casts off her sexual aversions and gets down with the bad boy at film's end. She's now united with Paul in flipping the bird at respectable society (remember Audiard feels that Carla is justified in her rebellion as the so-called 'respectable' members of society are the very people who made fun of her in the office because of her disability). Despite committing a crime, Audiard doesn't see this as such as bad thing, since after all, the victims here are much more unsavory than Carla and Paul (but do Carla and Paul really come off as completely untainted? I do seem to recall that Marchand's wife is unfairly used by Carla in this scheme, and is left at scene of the crime to face the wrath of either a betrayed husband or his vengeful partners in crime. Not very noble of either one of them!).For those who don't understand why the parole officer appears in this film, I believe I can explain it. For Director Audiard, Paul's Parole Officer is the key to explaining the film's theme. All along, we're led to believe that the Parole Officer represents the good part of society&#x97;he's more like a social worker trying to help Paul (unlike the unmentionables who made fun of Carla back at the office). But when Paul and Carla 'run into' Paul at the film's climax, it's the Parole Office who is being led away by the police for killing his wife (in an apparent mercy killing). So now the ultimate symbol of the law abiding citizenry is an apparent murderer and the amoral protagonists (lonely heart Carla transformed into bad girl who joins already bad boy Paul) are actually charming waifs who have committed a wholly justifiable robbery.One can only conclude that 'Read My Lips' ultimately devolves into a 'feel good' fairy tale of amoral criminals, whom Director Audiard clearly wants us to root for. You might be bewitched by Carla's transformation or the mechanics of Paul's heist scheme, but ultimately there's nothing admirable about the protagonists' sordid machinations. "},{"Title":"An in-depth analysis of the french labor market's situation and human psychology","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sur mes lèvres is the first Audiard's movie which gained national and international recognition  it depicted the relationship between two abnormal people, and how they interact with their direct environment, i.e. their work.Audiard's movies are quite interesting and unique, as he is always using the same method  first acting as a sociologist, then as a psychologist. Finally, giving free thinking to the watcher.In this very movie, we are first getting acquainted with the job's situation in France  quite open when it comes to communication (we've got a deaf and an ex-convict in the firm )but sclerosed when it comes to the issue of real equality.The psychologic part begins when these two people are meeting  apart from their mutual attractiveness, something else is going on ; what ? you've got all your mind to think about it ! "},{"Title":"Gripping leftfield romantic thriller","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A super, unusual film from Audiard, Read My Lips is a pulpy, lonely- hearts thriller. It's perfect for the handsomely grizzled charisma of Vincent Cassel and features a marvellously contained performance from Emanuelle Devos. Devos is a recurring feature of Audiard in the same way that KArin Viard pops up for Jean-Pierre Jeunet unconventionally beautiful (she's referred to by everyone as unattractive in this film), versatile and capable of a subordinate profile.This is almost the definition of her role as Carla, a put-upon office dogsbody, taunted by colleagues exploiting her deafness. Yet she finds an ami d'exploitation, if you like in Cassel's ex-con Paul. Each exploits the other's unconventional talents (theft and lip reading) to struggle through their respective situations and form an unconventionally romantic rapprochement. Devos/Audiard manage Carla's deafness and its attendant, warped inner world with discreet, stylish flair.In this film (2001) Audiard is already clearly in control of his handling on tension, action and investing his frame with a truly visceral experience which will become the great hit - A Prophet - of nine years later. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, what can I say having just watched this fantastic film, when my nerves are still jangling! Jacques Audiard the director must be making quite a name for himself in France, and rightly so. Vince Cassel is no Tom Cruise and Emmanuelle Devos is no Penelope Cruz either, but these two are fantastic actors, and this is a taut and compelling thriller which starts off slowly with some clever character building and then starts to put tension on tension to a wonderful climax. Others have written about the plot, so I will not say more than everyone in this film plays their role to perfection, the director, the actors, right down to the cameraman, and everything seems so real, no stupid gun play, the fighting when it happens is so credible, the expressions, the emotions, it is almost as you are there as a spectator. Do yourself a favour, get the DVD, a bottle of wine, turn the lights low, take the phone off the hook and immerse yourself in this Hitchcockian thriller ) "},{"Title":"A true psychological thriller","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most so-called psychological thrillers are in fact contrived and psychologically implausible; psychotic thrillers might be a better way of describing them. But Jacques Audiard's 'Read my Lips' is a genuine example of the breed, a compelling story of how a bullied, repressed deaf woman is drawn to a mutually manipulative relationship with a violent criminal. Emmanuelle Devos is excellent in the lead role, subtly conveying the change in her character as the story progresses; Vincent Cassel, meanwhile, as the criminal, appears to be auditioning for the job of the next Gerard Depardieu, playing the shaggy old Frenchman in a role that seems light years away from his fresh-faced student in 'L'Appartament'. It's good; I recommend the same director's 'A Self-Made Hero' even more highly. "},{"Title":"Wow, What a Great Movie!","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie just pulls you so deeply into the two main characters. I popped it into my laptop without even reading the cover (let alone reviews) and was intrigued for two solid hours. Two lost ships from two different worlds collide. The sexual tension that brews between a secretary and a criminal is almost palpable even without hardly any physical contact. Toward the end I couldn't decide which I wanted more Our hero and heroine to pull off their caper or simply consummate their passion. RML could've done without a curious subplot and a traditional 100 minutes would have been plenty. I'm nitpicking though. After a series of Netflix, Blockbuster and local library duds this movie restored my faith in great film making. "},{"Title":"Does anybody else think Emmanuelle Devos is hot?","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film not expecting much and not knowing anything much about it. I loved it. A very good, tight plot, an intriguing hook in the form of the ugly, fat, deaf girl and the ex-con, and a pace that kept things flowing without being hurried. A much, much better film than the same director's De battre mon coeur s'est arreté, which was boring and unbelievable.The only thing that didn't quite work was that the supposedly ugly, fat girl was neither ugly nor fat solid, certainly, and far from conventionally beautiful, but with so much character in her face that she took over the screen whenever she was on it. Superb. I wish she was in more films, and better ones than she generally is. I've seen a bit of Gilles' Wife and a bit of The Moustache, and they both looked like rubbish, and I've seen all of De battre mon coeur s'est arreté, and that certainly is rubbish. She seems to have a few coming up, so I'll keep my fingers crossed. "},{"Title":"Genre clash - it's the future...","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Carla works for a property developer's where she excels in being unattractive, unappreciated and desperate. She is also deaf.Her boss offers to hire in somebody to alleviate her heavy workload so she uses the opportunity to secure herself some male company. Help arrives in the form of Paul, a tattooed hoodlum fresh out of prison and clearly unsuited to the mannered routine of an office environment.An implicit sexual tension develops between the two of them and Carla is determined to keep him on despite his reluctance to embrace the working week. When Carla is edged out of an important contract she was negotiating by a slimy colleague she exploits Paul's criminality by having him steal the contract back. The colleague quickly realises that she's behind the robbery, but when he confronts her, Paul's readiness to punch people in the face comes in handy too - but this thuggery comes at a price. Paul is given a 'going over' by some mob acquaintances as a reminder about an unpaid debt. He formulates a plan which utilises Carla's unique lip reading abilities to rip-off a gang of violent bank robbers. It's now Carla's turn to enter a frightening new world.The fourth feature from director Jacques Audiard, 'READ MY LIPS' begins as a thoroughly engaging romantic drama between two marginalised losers only to shift gears halfway through into an edgy thriller where their symbiotic shortcomings turn them into winners. The leads are excellent; effortlessly convincing us that this odd couple could really connect. Carla's first meeting with Paul is an enjoyable farce in which she attempts to circumnavigate his surly reticence and jailbird manners only to discover that he was, until very recently, a jailbird. Emmanuelle Devos, who plays Carla, has that almost exclusive ability to go from dowdy to gorgeous and back again within a frame. Vincent Cassel plays Paul as a cornered dog who only really seems at home when he's receiving a beating or concocting the rip-off that is likely to get him killed.Like many French films, 'READ MY LIPS' appears, at first, to be about nothing in particular until you scratch beneath the surface and find that it's probably about everything. The only bum note is a subplot concerning the missing wife of Paul's parole officer; a device that seems contrived only to help steer the main thrust of the story into a neat little feelgood cul-de-sac.It was the French 'New Wave' of the 60's that first introduced the concept of 'genre' to film making and I've always felt that any medium is somewhat compromised when you have to use a system of labels to help define it; so it's always a pleasure to discover a film that seems to transcend genre, or better still, defy it. "},{"Title":"Be patient, it pays off","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is very French about this film is the time taken to establish the two leading characters. This might require a bit of patience, especially since neither is attractive in the typical Hollywood definition of such. However, once the heist kicks in, the film rushes forward quickly, perhaps at times too quickly. But it is a real rollercoaster ride and if you don't look too closely it is all quite believable. The kind of film that you know Hollywood would have botched up. "},{"Title":"French entertainment at its finest","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I use the word entertainment on purpose, because the film is neither overly quirky or highly intellectual - some may expect this from every French film. Suffice to say it is heist thriller and modern love story and is satisfies in both areas. The leads are excellent, with Vincent Cassel in a more laid back role than his hood from Doberman, but a league away from the shock of Irreversible. He plays a recently released jailbird looking for a break and a simple life. The film is seen from the viewpoint of the deaf female heroine and dowdy secretary, played by the perfectly good looking Ms Devos, who could do with some romance.   A sub-plot about a parole officer appears to have suffered from bad editing as it doesn't quite make itself clear, and certainly some of the plot is nearer wish fulfillment than realism, but a great film nonetheless. "}{"Title":"Rousseau's Revenge","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jean-Jacques' career began with his essay answer to a prize question civilization makes us evil. This intelligent and exciting movie supports that argument. In that sense it repeats a theme common to French films society is real, identity is a construction, freedom is criminal. Here the idea is treated literally. Both main characters find themselves, and each other, only when breaking rules. This discovery may well hold true in France; at any rate, it's quite romantic. "},{"Title":"3 stars","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Carla is a secretary who is essentially deaf without her hearing aids. When she finds herself overloaded at work, she is able to hire Paul to help her out. Paul is just out of jail, and his past is not entirely behind him. To say too much more about the story, which has many twists, would be a mistake.The most interesting thing about this film for me is how sound is used to indicate when Carla can hear and when she can't -- a sort of point of hear (like point of view). The early scenes that set this up, as well as the early character development of Carla and Paul, was more interesting to me than the twists and turns later on, some of which were hard to follow and/or stretched credibility a bit. There is also some unpleasant violence. Back to the positive side, the cinematography was very good.The film is worth seeing, but perhaps not seeking out. Seen at the San Francisco International Film Festival on 4/28/2002. "},{"Title":"Pretty good mixture","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can you say when you see a good French movie which tries to draw a suspenseful story in line with the social background of the characters? The major point is we believe in those characters and once they've met each other we want them to stay together. It's simple and really efficient. The background story is less important. Why does the screenplay go on the side of a half-developed thriller? It helps not to get stuck in those social demonstrations most French film-jerkers like to make. Not too much ambition, right Sur mes lèvres is only an entertaining French film with good characterization.For all the clever noir points in the screenplay the end is by far too easy. It goes quite as easy as in Rear Window (an obvious reference and definitely not a noir film) but with a less compelling context. Where I am amazed it's to see that the character of the probation officer has not been erased. He brings very little to the story; when he appears alone we wonder if we've not missed a part before. Jacques Audiard is not a new-comer yet. Strange and weird. "},{"Title":"unexpected chemistry between very special characters...","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Audiard made here a very interesting movie. It begins with the description of an almost-deaf young woman, in its working universe as a secretary; she is ignored, frustrated, rejected... Hiring an intern as an assistant appears to be a way for her to find someone in her life  but the guy is just coming out from jail. Their both being rejected by the society reunites them progressively. Characters'description is profund, goes into details...both start to help each other; for she can read on lips, which reveals itself to be very useful for him...She will progressively evolve, far from what she was at first.It's beautifully filmed; the whole is very convincing, even if it turns into a film noir at the end. Gesture is in particular beautifully observed in Audiard's filming. Emmanuelle Devos should be nominated at the Best Actess Cesar Awards for her magistral play. Action towards the end of the film prevents it from being a simple etude de moeurs. It's actually surprisingly entertaining  8/10. "},{"Title":"Needs and How to Take Care of Them","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sur mes lèvres or READ MY LIPS is fine little thriller that also examines the lives of 'outsiders', people who live in the periphery of our vision who struggle with the need to 'fit in'. Director Jacques Audiard with and co-writer Tonino Benacquista have created a tense, tight, completely entertaining little thriller that makes some significant statements about out of the norm individuals and their plights.Carla (Emmanuelle Devos) is a plain Jane, mostly deaf, thirty something unnoticed secretary for a company whose life is one of social and sexual isolation and whose view of the future is rather bleak. Enter Paul (Vincent Cassel) a recent released ex-con parolee who responds to an ad to be Carla's assistant. There is a mutual physical repulsion at first meeting Carla had hoped for a well-groomed, genteel man who might fulfill her fantasies and Paul is a coarse, unkempt sleazy guy who is not impressed with being a clerk. Their concepts change rather quickly when Paul salvages Carla's job by filling her request to steal a letter that would cost her her job and Paul discovers Carla's lip reading ability which he sees as a way to spy on the criminals from his past who threaten his life for money owed. So this odd couple of a team join forces and together enter a dangerous suspense filled ploy to gain Paul's safety and freedom. The relationship is full of twists and edge of the seat suspense with each of these unlikely characters fulfilling roles in their lives that fill the chinks in their walls of isolation in surprising ways.Devos and Cassel deliver bravura performances and the remainder of the cast is uniformly strong. Once again Alexandre Desplat has produced a musical score that enhances the tension and cinematographer Mathieu Vadepied finds all the right lighting and angles to suggest the worlds of isolation of the characters as well as the Hitchcockian sense of suspense. Director Audiard wisely manipulates a factor that is at once sensitive and transformative for the story he shows us the difference between 'hearing' the world with and without hearing aids and in doing so makes some powerful social comments. This is a fine film that remains in the ranks of the best of the French film noir genre. Recommended. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Twisty, Sensual Tale of Noir Office Politics","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Read My Lips (Sur mes lèvres) (which probably has different idiomatic resonance in its French title) is a nifty, twisty contemporary tale of office politics that unexpectedly becomes a crime caper as the unusually matched characters slide up and down an ethical and sensual slippery slope.The two leads are magnetic, Emmanuelle Devos (who I've never seen before despite her lengthy resume in French movies) and an even more disheveled than usual Vincent Cassel (who has brought a sexy and/or threatening look and voice to some US movies).The first half of the movie is on her turf in a competitive real estate office and he's the neophyte. The second half is on his turf as an ex-con and her wrenching adaptation to that milieu.Writer/director Jacques Audiard very cleverly uses the woman's isolating hearing disability as an entrée for us into her perceptions, turning the sound up and down for us to hear as she does (so it's even more annoying than usual when audience members talk), using visuals as sensory reactors as well.None of the characters act as anticipated (she is not like that pliable victim from In the Company of Men, not in individual interactions, not in scenes, and not in the overall arc of the unpredictable story line (well, until the last shot, but heck the audience was waiting for that fulfillment) as we move from a hectic modern office, to a hectic disco to romantic and criminal stake-outs. There is a side story that's thematically redundant and unnecessary, but that just gives us a few minutes to catch our breaths.This is one of my favorites of the year! (originally written 7/28/2002) "},{"Title":"What a surprise!","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's so rare to find a film that provides a plot that can't be figured out at every turn. Surprises throughout delighting throughout.A couple of things I could not quite understand though is that here you have the lead female character who plays the good girl, hard worker and yet in the end she ends up being an anti-social risk taker. That was not enough to make me not like it though but it did give me pause.The other thing I could not get was the old man who was being hauled away by the police at the very end of the film. I never did get who he was or what his issues were. If anyone has any ideas, I'd like to hear what they might be.The film was exciting and fun throughout and always left me guessing. Very much worth seeing. "},{"Title":"But who is to guard the guards themselves? Juvenal, Satires (55 AD - 127 AD)","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has a rotting core of flexible morality, and yet a quirky sense of justice. So many of the regular Joes among us would love to stick it to the MAN. The MAN in this case is represented by several different characters. Mr. Keller, who Carla reports to at her office. Later, Paul owes 70 large to Mr. Marchand the club owner. And then there is Paul's Parole Officer. There seems to be so much question about this last character's side story. Reviewers point it out as a weakness in an otherwise well crafted subterranean game of ping-pong between our two protagonists, escalating tit-for-tat until their lives change dramatically. They are beholden to each agent of the MAN. One or both could be fired, killed, or imprisoned if they don't do as they are told.The film has a sense of relief at the end. Carla finally gets laid. Her boss is forced out for being a jerk. Mr. Club Owner is a pulpy mess in his own bathroom. They get the $money$. And... they need not worry about reporting in to the Parole Officer, because HIS moral weakness leads him to stash his wandering wife in the basement (or whatever the police found to arrest him). It is a critical subconscious trigger to the lock tumbler that wound us up so tight. Never mind that someone else may get Paul's file later to supervise his release; for the moment they are free! They might even get away with it! Woohoo...They STUCK IT TO THE MAN! "},{"Title":"In The Mood For Love...","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Carla (Emmanuelle Devos) is a deaf girl, but she can hear thanks to one of those ear-devices. She works at a property developer enterprise as a secretary, and she seems to be the laughing stock of the office, the weirdo. She's shy, solitary, she dresses like a nun, and she's definitely isolated. Her saturday night's date usually is her best girlfriend's baby. Once she was a totally deaf person, and now she isn't; but it seems like that isolation typical of the deaf goes beyond the hearing itself. Now she's needing a personal assistant at the office, and applies for one at the Employee Office. They send Paul. Paul (Vincent Cassell) is an ex-convict, an ex-thief. He gotta find a job and change his ways in order not to come back to jail. Carla gives him the job, and there begins an strange relationship between them she desperately needs someone to share her life with, she needs to fall in love. He has some old debts to pay (that kind of debts that you MUST pay), and she'll find some Carla's skills so useful in order to solve his problems.Though it was released in 2001 in France, it has just reached Spanish's screens (of course, Steve Seagal's and Van Damme's productions get to our screens right on time); and it's been a great surprise. When you're thinking about quitting on watching new cinema releases suddenly you find movies just like Sur Mes Levres. A dramatic thriller, an story of losers, and of people in search of redemption and happiness. Emmanuelle Devos displays one of the best performances of the latest french cinema another cold-as-ice french actress that makes a hit out of her lack of expressiveness and his strange beauty; her eyes, her lips, they say it all. Those scenes in wich she's talking to herself, sort of making a rehearsal of his next date with Paul, are so tender and funny. Mr. Cassell (Monica Belluci's husband -can you believe it???-) plays the perfect ex-convict he REALLY looks and acts like he's just left his dark cell, no doubt his phisique helps a lot. His pressence in the screen is just amazing. PS There's sort of a parallel story in Sur Mes Levres some sequences refers to Paul's social worker, a mid-age man whose wife has suddenly dissapeared. Ok, this story makes no sense among the rest of the movie (or maybe I missed something), but it does not smudge the final restults.My rate 8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellente","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best films in recent memory. To keep it short, it is a brilliant character study of two outcast souls who find common bond in the most unlikely situations. The main characters are fleshed out perfectly by the Devos & Cassel.Every time you think you know where the plot is going, it veers off in a different unexpected direction. Absolutely unique & intriguing. I ended up watching it two nights in a row, which very rarely happens for me. Second viewing improves... I was frustrated the first round by not having a clue where the film was going.Artistic, yet not pretentious - a rare treat in current film. The artistic moments blend inconspicuously with the film's tone & themes (they do not stick out like a sore thumb).I cannot recommend this film highly enough. "}{"Title":"One of my favorites (possible spoilers at end of my piece)","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was tempted to call this one of the best suspense movies of all time, but I will need to watch it again.  I was thoroughly enthralled.... at one point I was standing in front of the TV for about five minutes, unable to go sit down, for fear of missing something or temporarily detatching myself from the story.  Vincent Cassel was awesome as usual, and Emmanuelle Devos won my heart and respect-- she was dynamite.  Whatever you think of the story, I was just compelled to watch the less-than-perfect looking leads play seedy but sympathetic characters, and was rooting for them the whole way.  This movie could have gone in 100 different directions, but I'm glad it went the direction it did.Spoilers  I interpreted it that the parole officer had killed his wife and she had been found in the cellar that he had mentioned to the police.  I like this bit of unresolved plot myself.  "},{"Title":"My lips are sealed!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Only in French films, as well as in European ones, an actor such as Vincent Cassel would have a leading role. For that matter, so does Emmanuelle Davos. They are no stars by American standards. Yet, in the roles they play in this movie, they're quite effective.This thriller keeps you going. It is well paced and it has all the right elements for the ironic twist at the end.Director Jacques Audiard pulls it off with a sure hand. It was one of the most entertaining and light films that have come in from the French cinema in a while. "},{"Title":"a unique aspect of this film","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood rarely shows people at work in 'ordinary' jobs unless they're sitting around bitching like losers.  In this film, the characters demonstrate the skill needed to excel at such despised jobs as office assistant or bartender.  These characters are super sharp yet unappreciated by their 'superiors.' I was rooting for them every step of the way. "},{"Title":"an arty film noir thing","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jacques Audiard is since some time a well respected French director and Sur mes lèvres is one of his best known ones. You can divide the movie in two parts namely the first hour at where we see how Carla (Emmanuelle Devos) meets Paul (Vincent Cassel) and then the second hour which is developing itself in a real film noir that apart from some brutal scenes can be best described as an intimate arty film noir. Carla is a secretary at a real estate company who works herself to death. Work is the sole category in where she can prove herself as not only she is hard hearing but she has no luck in love either, if love for her even exists. One day she may recruit an assistant and perhaps it's all a bit unrealistic, the job goes to Paul who is just out of jail and who even hasn't typed one letter in his life. At first it seems the two aren't exactly made for each other, but slowly grows respect and a friendship till Carla gets involved in the world of crime. The biggest problem this movie has is its impossible scenario unless you believe that some jerk out of jail without any intelligence can start working in some company doing administrative work. But that itself is just a minor point as Audiard made a more than decent crime story even if the whole plan could have been better explained, but this isn't exactly your Hollywood movie and it wasn't really Audiard's goal as well. Some journalists claim to give this movie four stars and that is exaggerated but apart from that is Sur mes lèvres worth the time. "},{"Title":"Taut psychological thriller","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, I suppose it's still possible to enjoy oneself at the movies! Read My           Lips is a servicable thriller, soundly based on character and psychology, very           much in the tradition of French films at once derivative and better than their           American models. The ending may leave a few too many loose threads           dangling, but the getting there is entirely pleasurable, thanks in large part to           economic plotting and the tightly drawn, expertly played characters of the           two protagonists, gritty underdogs from quite contrasting parts of the social           spectrum. Maybe the camera's handheld jitteriness is overdone, maybe the           subplot about the parol officer isn't entirely necessary, but the tension           between the two central characters keeps things humming till the last shot.           For once you really do want to find out how things turn out.  "},{"Title":"Unusual, unique","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As in Amelie, recent French films seem to be taking a stereotypical male-female relationship slant, centered on a female finding her one true love.  In this case, desperation leads to a convict, which leads to her evolution into a mob prototype.  Clever and surprising story in many ways, except that the female is there to support the male.For those of us that don't speak French, the subtitles are a little quick, but not unreasonable.The soundtrack, as seems to be increasingly the case with European films, is great and in perfect sync with the film's variations.  Nothing seems forced.  Visually, it reminds me of various urban horror movies.  There's a Wes Craven in Chicago feel to it.  "},{"Title":"Very much a film of two halves, Ron...","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With the World Cup upon us, it's perhaps a little schematic to view 'Read My Lips' as a film of two halves, but I felt the promise & characterisation of the early scenes (the tentative relationship between Carla & Paul) gave way to a violent finale & melodramatic ending which detracted from the rest of the film.It's an interesting & original scenario and Emmanuelle Devos as Carla is wonderful in her role as the repressed, put-upon secretary with hearing problems, whose fateful meeting with Paul, the ex-con, leads to danger and a Hitchcockian 'Rear Window' scenario.I felt the plot definitely lost direction towards the end; it might have been a more crueller scenario, but I think it would have been more believeable if Paul & Carla had become lovers first, and then the film ended with her being betrayed by him. But credit to Audiard for attempting this modern day 'office noir'.  "},{"Title":"Excellent premise wasted","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The basic--and immediately evident--premise of  Read My Lips is that someone who has  moderate-severe hearing loss, but who can read  lips, is not always at a disadvantage.  For example, Carla, the protagonist of this film, can tell when people are talking about her, and these people have no  knowledge that she is overhearing them.Unfortunately, the film never lives up to the creativity of this premise.  Probably the most important defect is thatEmmanuelle Devos, the starring actor, is supposed to  be unattractive.  (Not a subtle factor--this is made veryclear.)  Of course, Ms. Devos is stunningly beautiful. She isn't even given the typical Hollywood glasses  and bad hairstyle let's pretend look.  People just  say she's unattractive.Suspending disbelief is one thing; throwing disbelief  out the window is another.  In any event, the charactersnever come to life, the romance makes no sense, and  the whole business just fritters away.  Too bad--this  could have been a winner. "},{"Title":"too graphic","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i thought the film was very well made overall. the camera was well operated and the scenes quite well thought out and captivating. I did find however, that there are disturbing scenes of rape and violence in this movie, and although i understand why these were put in i would have preferred to have been forewarned. so i am forewarning you. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Can all the critics be wrong?  This film got such good reviews that I figured it would be at least average but instead I found it slow and tedious.  The first 75 minutes could have been compressed into 15 minutes.  The last 45 minutes needed to have a big payoff but I found most of it to be implausible.  On the positive side, the leads were good and the filming was adequate.Some of the critics said this was a film noir or compared it with the style of Hitchcock.  I found neither to be true.  It had neither the visual style or paranoia required for noir and it did not have the style or plot twist that is usually required of to be compared with Hitchcock.Overall, this had an interesting premise that was not fully realized.  Hopefully, if there is an American remake; they will keep the premise but rewrite the story. "}{"Title":"Read My Lips  It Stinks!","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film starts off well but loses its way after the first act, wandering around in search of a plotline, with few twists and no reason to wish for the two leads to get together.  Based on all the positive reviews here, I was expecting something.  But this is an extremely poor noir and a pedestrian screenplay.  This won several Cesars?  Wow, must have been a bad year. "},{"Title":"This emperor has no clothes ...","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just don't get it.  Every time I read another glowing review for this film (and there are a lot of them out there), I have to shake my head.  I don't get it.This is such a deeply flawed film, I scarcely know where to begin.  Is it a crime thriller or a love story?  I realize that it doesn't have to be one or the other -- plenty of films have done both well -- but in this case neither prong of the film works.  The characters lack chemistry, leaving the romance angle flat.  And the thriller plotline is crude and uninvolving.  Both move at a stunted pace, in fits and starts.There's more.  This is a new-age art film, right, which means that it has to be shown like a coarse-grained 8-mm work, murkily lit and badly focused, right?  Whatever ... There's nothing particularly interesting about the camerawork or editing, and the direction of the picture is uninspired at best.Finally, this film is French, and plays like so many bad French-film stereotypes.  Sur mes levres is unfailingly pretentious and self-important, and for no reasons.  It's not hard to see where the filmmaker wanted to go with this material, and it's even easier to see that he failed badly.Sur mes levres is headed straight for my most overrated film of the year list -- so far the competition isn't even close.  Unfortunately, I'll probably be shaking my head again early next year when awards season comes around. "}]