[{"Title":"A poetic horror film","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Kim (Patricia Clarkson), George (Jake Weber) and son Miles (Erik Per Sullivan) are headed to the country for winter weekend relief from Manhattan's bustling metropolis. On the way, they hit a buck and end up stuck in the snow. A group of hunters who were tracking the buck come along. Rather than helping, at least one of the hunters, Otis (John Speredakos), is mad because the accident cracked the buck's antlers. George, Kim and Miles are disturbed by Otis, and even worse, we quickly learn that Otis has learned where they're staying. Meanwhile, Miles is given a wendigo (a kind of Indian shape-shifting spirit/monster) token by an Indian whom only he has seen. Is Otis a psycho out to get our heroes? Are there wendigos in the woods? I can see where Wendigo would have a number of problems appealing to viewers. It is a fairly low budget film, with technical limitations frequently showing through. Much of the film, and maybe all of it, is not really about the titular creature. And perhaps the fatal blow for many people, it has a very ambiguous ending, with a number of questions left unanswered. If you are discouraged by such endings, and you do not like films that have an aim of making you think about and discuss what everything meant, do yourself a favor and avoid Wendigo.Personally, I like films like that. I usually prefer some ambiguity. The marketing of Wendigo is geared towards those who want a quick, scary creature flick, where they'd expect a grand battle with some supernatural monster who is defeated in the end, and everything is tied up neatly except for an opening for Wendigo 2 The Monster Returns, but that's not what this film is. Wendigo is much more thoughtful and poetic than the surface of such a creature flick would suggest to most people. Heck, writer/director Larry Fessenden even has a character, George, reciting Robert Frost. The Frost poem, and George's comment that Frost can evoke complex imagery and atmosphere out of seemingly simple things, is the key to the film.One of the best things about the film is its complexity. In a way, there are four different films occurring at the same time, a thread from each character. In George's thread, he isn't exactly the happiest or most pleasant guy in the world, and he has some parenting problems. For him, the film is a realistic, horrific descent of his life going from bad to worse. In Patricia's thread, she's looking for rejuvenation of her life and family. She's a psychologist mostly denying the problems around her, hoping that they'll go away and get better. In Otis' thread, he's even more down on his luck than George, and George's arrival into his life symbolizes the final crack in his psychological armor. And in Miles' thread, which is probably the most important of the film, life is like a grand poem due to his youthful innocence and interpretation of the world. But this is a horror story, after all, albeit one with a glimmer of hope, and the events in the film give Miles' poetic interpretations a dark turn. Still, when everything is said and done, he seems to be the only one retaining his composure, due to the poetic outlook.Even though the film is low budget, there are a lot of well-executed higher budget ambitions. Fessenden and director of photography Terry Stacey find some great shots in beautiful locations, and created some interesting slide show like montages (such as the cards, or the Indian wendigo images from the book). There are also interesting more traditional montages, such as Miles' nightmare. Wendigo is better shot and edited than many big budget films.Other technical aspects are good for the budget. The Wendigo appearance at the end worked for me and was appropriately ambiguous. The lighting was usually good--there were a few times that dark scenes weren't as clear as they could have been, but it seemed to be more of a problem with the film stock (it could have been digital instead) or transfer. I thought the performances were good and far more realistic (if you value that) than the majority of films. Although I didn't really notice the score, it must have been okay, or I would have noticed it with a negative judgment.Overall, Wendigo is a very good film that deserves to be watched without preconceptions, as long as you don't mind having to think about the movies you watch. "},{"Title":"Indian folklore","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Larry Fessenden has been thrashed by most of the comments on this forum. Well, the worst mistake, evidently, is the marketing of the movie and the way the DVD might have been targeted. Obviously, this is not a true horror movie, at least, not for people expecting anything that will be gory and instantly satisfying. Wendigo is basically a film that seems to be told from the mind of the young Miles. Things that are not readily understood by children tend to stay in their young minds and ultimately dominate their fears and the menacing world they can't comprehend. It is obvious that Kim, the mother, is a psychologist, but she has no clue to what is going on in the mind of her son. This is also a story of alienation. It's clear that the father, George, is a distant figure, perhaps a workaholic, who seems to be living in a different world.Miles' fears reach a point of crisis during the week end in the country. That part of New York state, with its winter landscape, barren trees, play havoc on the little boy's imagination. It doesn't help that he encounters a strange figure in town, it creates even more doubts in his young mind. Ultimately, Miles' world comes crashing down on him and he can't do anything, even evoking the Wendigo spirit.The film is well paced and acted. Patricia Clarkson is excellent, no matter where movie she is in. Jake Weber is perfect as the distant father who has an opportunity to come closer to a son he doesn't understand. Erik Per Sullivan, as Miles, conveys the inner turmoil within him. I thought he was extremely effective since the whole movie is Miles own take on what's going on around him. Finally, John Spredakos is perfect as the menacing Otis, a man who resents the world for the way he has turned out.Instead of putting this movie down, future viewers should approach it with a open mind. "},{"Title":"Is it in your head, or is it really out there?","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those unique horror films that requires a much more mature understanding of the word 'horror' in order for it to be appreciated. The main thing people may fail to realize that this story is told through the point of view a little boy and, as with most younger children, he gets frightened easily. Mainly because he simply doesn't understand things, like why his father is hardly ever there for him. From watching the film you can see the husband arguing with his wife the balance between work time and family time and you can easily understand it, but the little boy doesn't. Also one can imagine the boy being afraid of the woods, as it is established early on in the film, that the family is from the city. Also, in the beginning as the family is traveling to the house they hit a deer, then get held up, then they argue with the locals about it, and the little boy surely didn't find this introduction to the woods pleasant at all.The Wendigo is ultimately what his young, innocent mind fabricates to explain all of this. There is the American Indian legend, but when looking at the scene where the young boy hears about about it, it is explained to him like bluntly and simplistically. Not because that's what the Wendigo actually is, but because that is how he understands it. When you look at the film from this point of view you can really begin to appreciate it. Obviously it was low-budget and shot cheaply, but the jumping montages, use of light, and general eeriness more than make up for it. And the final question the film asks is is it all in your head, or is it really out there? 8/10Rated R profanity, violence, and a sex scene "},{"Title":"Satisfyingly Creepy Psychological Horror","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you like horror movies with lots of blood and gore, tons of jump-scare moments and unrelenting, escalating scenes of excruciating death, then look elsewhere. If you like quiet, moody, thoughtful horror which casts blood aside in favor of a genuine feeling of dread, then Wendigo is for you.Thoughtful, stressed out George, his psychoanalyst wife Kim and their young son Miles are heading out to the snowy countryside for a long weekend vacation away from the city. On the way up, George hits a stag with his car. The hunters who had been pursuing the deer are not thrilled when they find that George has ended their chase. In particular, deranged hunter Otis takes it personally. He follows the family to their vacation home, making sure they see him. He spies on George and Kim as they have sex. He fires through their windows with his rifle when they aren't home, letting them discover the ominous holes in their windows and walls when they return. When Kim takes Miles to the drugstore in town, Miles is attracted to a small sculpture in a display case, carved to resemble a man with the head of a stag. A Native American man tells Miles that this is the Wendigo, a spirit of the woods who has a taste for flesh and is always hungry. Miles takes the figure home with him, already haunted by the death of the deer the day before. That afternoon, when he and his father go sledding, George is shot and Miles pursued through the woods by a creature barely glimpsed...or is he just in shock, and imagining the whole thing? Hours later, George is rushed to the hospital and Miles, still clutching his statue, either faints, dreams or goes on a vision quest, in which the Wendigo returns. This time the angry, flesh eating god - part tree, part stag and part man - is hunting for Otis, who has finally gone over the edge.Wendigo is a beautifully made film, almost totally silent but for the wind howling through the snow covered trees. Okay, so the monster itself is kind of fakey-looking, but it's a small flaw, more than made up for by the genuine feeling of tension and dread that creeps through every frame of the film, and the eerie backdrop of the silent, snowy countryside. The performances are great, particularly by Jake Weber as the moody and thoughtful George and Patricia Clarkson as his sweet but no-nonsense wife. They are a happy couple with their share of common problems, and it is the strength of their relationship and their love for each other that makes this film powerful. Watching this film is often like watching someone's home videos, so realistic are the performances. This movie is not for everyone. A lot of people may find themselves totally bored, waiting for the hideous Lovecraftian Beast and bloody revenge that never come. We can never really be sure if the Wendigo even exists, seen as it is through the eyes of a sensitive child and also, later, through the eyes of a madman. This is more a psychological drama than a horror film, but it has more than enough creepy elements in it to satisfy fans of subtle horror. "},{"Title":"Boring...","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I like horror movies a lot and have seen a great many of them.  I rented this movie with misgivings which were, alas, justified.  For approximately the first hour, very little happened.  A couple & small child driving along the woods hit a deer then encounter some hunters, one of whom has a screw loose.  Words are exchanged and the family eventually gets unstuck from the ditch they ran into after hitting the deer.  After that, for about an hour, not much happens.A horror movie, above all, should not be boring, and this one is.  All that happens occurs in the last 1/2 hour.   "},{"Title":"Instant Karma's Gonna Get You","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Important to know straight off -- this isn't a horror film or a creature feature. This is a film about that two-headed coin fear and faith. It's about what our minds conjure up when we let our fears get the better of us, and it's about what our minds conjure up when we hope or pray. As many people have said, this film takes its time in bringing on 'the monster'. Seemingly, that is so, but if you put away the usual limited way of looking at horror movies, you will realize that the 'monster' appears fairly early on in the film. You can't see it; you only feel its presence. If you were paying attention, you'll know that the Wendigo isn't a monster, it's a spirit, and it can change its size and shape at will. The catch is&#133;&#133;. the will does not belong to the Wendigo, it belongs to those who conjure the Wendigo. If the imagination holds on to fear, the Wendigo will take the shape of that fear, like a chimera. It may appear as drops of blood, or as a sudden gust of snow, or as a giant deer with dragon breath (notice that the reason the 'monster' image of the Wendigo looks rather cheesy is because that is all a very young boy can muster in his mind. Chances are, the little boy's parents haven't let him watch Alien yet!). If it is hope you need to conjure, the Wendigo will go where you want it to go and be what you want it to be (the father's description of how easily he got to the house after he'd been shot sounds like he had a little help there!). The Wendigo will also create havoc for those who deserve a nasty fate. It cannot kill, but it can create enough fear in a person to drive himself (in one case, literally) to his own demise. In other words, what devours us isn't a boogie man with sharp teeth, it is our fear that devours us.There is a reason that this film spends most of its first hour in the presence of the family as it goes through everyday rituals and discussions. There is a tension that is penetrating that normalcy. We - and the characters at different times - are aware of the bullet holes in the walls, of the menacing presence of the creepy neighbor, and of the resonating grisly demise of that deer on the road. The father's feeling of helplessness gets triggered against his wife and son. The Wendigo takes the form of that aggression too. Before the father goes on the sled we see him playacting murdering his son. It is a game, and his son is never realistically threatened, but the father needed to do this in order to vent out his aggression (subconsciously of course). The film smartly tells its story from the viewpoint of the young boy. Smartly for one reason because it is the core of fear that really scares us, and that core began at a very young age. Remember the shadows in the corner of your room that seemed to swallow up the furniture with their darkness? Remember the overcoat that limply hung on the closet door looking like a hanging dead man? Or how about the breeze outside your house that whistled through the branches as they clawed at your window? They're all innocent and harmless things, yet we practically scared ourselves to death as kids by letting our imaginations (our little Wendigos) run wild. The film also is smart to tell its story through the little boy because he is going to learn something that he will take with him into adulthood. He will face death and embrace it and let it go (the scene in the hospital where his father is in surgery, and then after the father dies). It is a rite of passage. The little boy will now be able to fill his father's shoes (metaphorically, despite the literal image!).This movie is the stuff of myths. It is what horror originally was in the movies. Today with terrorists and serial killers, it's easy to get lost in horror as 'reality'. Slasher movies have championed the literal with realistic special effects, offering little to feed our need for fantasy. If you look back into your childhood, you will find what you yourself planted there long ago. Your imagination. Your appreciation for this movie will depend on how much of that you have retained. "},{"Title":"Everyone knows it's Wendigo!","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERSWendigo falls squarely into the genre of what I like to call The Killer Credits.  That's where you're still waiting for something to happen when all of a sudden, BAM---there are the end credits!  They hit you like a ten-ton runaway truck.  In fact, the biggest moment of dread in Wendigo is the moment JUST before the end credits begin.  There is a moment of blackness, and the musical cues tell us that something has just come to an end.  In a split second, we realize, this is it...it's over...the credits are going to start and I'm still waiting for something to happen!  No!  STOP!  Don't do this!!  Then the first one slips across the screen, and you realize all is lost.This is a real shame, because up until the final third of the film, Wendigo builds a delicious atmosphere of dread.  I kept waiting for something terrible to happen.  Something does, but it's not the something that we've been led to expect.  In another movie, this might have been intriguing, even welcome.  In this one, it just plain sucks.  I am still reeling over this film and trying to place the exact moment where it went wrong.The plot concerns a small family on a weekend getaway to a friend's cottage in the Catskills.  Kim and George are typical fast-lane New York parents (she's an analyst, he's a photographer), and their small son, Miles, is a quiet kid who seems to have attended the same private school as Haley Joel Osment.The family runs afoul of some locals when they hit a deer that runs across the road in front of their car.  The deer is being stalked by three hunters, one with the ominous moniker of Otis, so we know this is a bad thing.  The hunters, especially Otis, are angry because the buck's antlers are chipped from the impact, therefore devaluing it.  Words are exchanged and once the family gets to the cottage, they discover bullet holes in some of the windows.While the family is foraging for groceries in town, a mysterious Indian man appears and gives Miles a weird animal statue, explaining to him the legend of the Wendigo--a vengeful spirit who consumes flesh and is part man, part animal, part tree...or whatever else happens to be around.To tell more would be to spoil the movie's one big surprise, so I won't give away what really happens.  What I will tell you, though, is that this is the kind of movie where weird, scary things happen, and they turn out to be hallucinations.  For instance, Miles sees a man emerge from his closet and point a gun at him.  No danger...hallucination.  There are noises in the attic and the retractable stairs bow outward ominously, as if something up there wants out...hallucination.  Miles has a vision while riding his sled...hallucination.Then before we know what hit us, we're in the film's final stages.  A non-supernatural threat is revealed, and the fearsome legend of the Wendigo turns out to be just a couple of vague appearances and the inability to inflict any kind of real harm on a human being.  We do see it, and it looks like a giant deer walking on two legs.  It's creepy...at least I thought it was...but that's all.I think the movie's crucial misstep was the ghostly man's description of the Wendigo.  We as the audience have been tricked into thinking the Wendigo is going to cut loose on these people, or at least on somebody in the film, and it never really happens.  It's a letdown, and by the time the events of the ending unfold, we're tapping our feet nervously, waiting for some Wendigo action.  And then those killer credits come, signaling the death of the movie.  It was a nice try, but after all the buildup, the conclusion of the film feels like a cheat.  But that dramatic pause in the blackness, KNOWING those credits were coming but not wanting to accept the fact that the movie was really over?  Terrifying. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good, But Could Have Been Better!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The movie was pretty good. Entertaining to say the least. I just expected a little more wendigo like the title mentions. Story and acting are pretty good and entertaining. A lot of open ended items in story. This is a decent movie and a good for a rental. I was a little disappointed it wasn't more of a horror flick. The wendigo in legend is supposed to have an insatiable appetite that grows as it does. The more it eats the more it has to eat and so on. It also smells bad like that of rot, and decay and death. Like I said it is pretty good, I just expected the Wendigo to play more of a part in the movie like the title says. "},{"Title":"An angry spirit haunts the Catskills","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wendigo (2001) is a story about a couple from New York City who take a weekend trip to the Catskills in the middle of winter. A local hunter takes a disliking to the husband (Jake Weber) while the couple's son becomes increasingly concerned about their environment and a Native American legend -- the Wendigo, an angry spirit that can manifest as man, beast, tree or wind.Wendigo is not a conventional creature feature so if you're looking for a typical monster flick look elsewhere. The movie has a slow build-up filled with mundane drama, which some have criticized. Yet this is reminiscent of films like The Birds, where the main characters and a sense of realism are well established before things get going.Wendigo is a mood piece more than anything else. The mysteriousness of the lonely Catskill woods is evoked along with a sense of wonder and fear of the unknown. It's a vibe more akin to The Mothman Prophecies than Ogre. Like The Mothman Prophecies Wendigo is somehow a pleasure just to watch (as long as you're not psyched-up for a monster-slasher flick). There's a quiet style and expertise to the filmmaking that smacks of professionalism.Patricia Clarkson is effective as the wife/mother and little Erik Per Sullivan is excellent as the son, Miles.Interestingly, none of the special effects were done with CGI, but rather cinematic techniques, costumes, make-up and creative editing. It works for me.The film leaves the viewer somewhat scratching his/her head with its ambiguity. What conjured up the Wendigo? What's its purpose? How exactly does it devour people with its unquenchable hunger? Etc. Obviously if you like everything spelled out for you and don't like banging your head this is not the film for you.The film was shot in the Catskills, NY, and runs 91 minutes.GRADE B+ or A- POSSIBLE EXPLANATION (***SPOILER*** Don't read further if you haven't seen the film) Children are more sensitive to the spiritual realm because they haven't yet built up years of intellectual blockades along with social conditioning. It's clear that Miles senses malevolent creatures or spirits around him, which is why he and his mother check the closet and underneath the bed before he goes to sleep.The Wendigo is a spirit and can only manifest in the physical realm through an agent who releases the spirit through BELIEF. The Wendigo souvenir plays a role in the Wendigo's manifestation because it was created by someone who BELIEVED in the Wendigo; it's in essence an article of worship and, in a sense, an idol. Hence, the Wendigo is attracted to the figure, which can inspire BELIEF in certain individuals, like Miles.The ghostly Native American in the souvenir shop is obviously the Wendigo in human form. He's attracted to Miles because he senses belief and therefore guides the boy to the Wendigo figure and explains the legend. He says, No one believes in spirits anymore, but after sharing the story of the Wendigo he asks the boy if he believes, to which Miles responds, I guess so. This wasn't much, but it was all the Wendigo needed. The boy gets his mother to purchase the statue and thus the Wendigo is released into the physical realm to devour human prey.The Wendigo is an evil spirit and therefore a liar. In Indian form he claims that such spirits are not bad just angry. In other words, he makes excuses for his malevolent actions. Our prisons are full of people who do the same thing.Once released, the Wendigo immediately inspires Otis to shoot the husband and, later, kill the cop. The Wendigo then goes after the very person he used, Otis, which shows that evil spirits will readily use you if you're willing and then lose you. Why didn't the Wendigo provoke someone else? Because evil spirits can only utilize those who are ALREADY given over to the dark side of their natures. The film shows that Otis was already an arrogant SOB and potential psycho. He doesn't go over the edge until AFTER the Wendigo is released.If you're wondering why the Wendigo required belief to manifest in the physical realm, just think about it It's the same way with God. The bible says that without faith it is impossible to please God. Faith is the key that activates God on our behalf, answers prayer, heals and moves mountains. Why would we think it's any different with spirit beings who aren't benign? The difference is that when they are released through belief they cause havoc and destruction rather than blessing. "},{"Title":"Good but not Great","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film based on Ojibwa (chippewa) and Algonquin Native American Legends.I had expected this film to center mostly around this but it was only a small part of the plot.The Wendigo, Windigo, or Windago is a spirit that comes with the wind. It would entice persons by calling to them in an irresistable way. It then would drag its victims along at great speeds until they burn up.This film mostly centers around a family that vacations un upstate New York during winter and have an unpleasant run in with some local hunters. This film has some excellent cinematography and special camera angles. There is much time-lapse photography and one part with the   now-famous time slice photography better known as bullet time which was made famous in The Matrix (1999)It is an unusual film and I could describe it as a combination of  Blair Witch, Sixth Sense, Abominable Snowman. "}{"Title":"'Wendigo' (2001)","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While I wouldn't necessarily recommend this film to a lot of people, I would recommend it to the avid horror fanatic who can appreciate a slow-moving melodrama with dark, mystical undertones and whatnot. However, just remember, this film starts off sloooow. And it pretty much stays that way for the majority of the picture. The film is very well thought out and thoroughly well-written. Larry Fessenden seems to have executed his ideas perfectly in his eyes, and it seems like he took his time get it right, and that's fine with me. There is a psychological aspect to the whole thing, but I wouldn't really say it is a psychological thriller or whatever you would call it, I would just call it horror interspersed with drama.The typical Bigfoot geek might walk away from this endeavor disappointed, this isn't your 70's style camp classic we have here. However, they might walk away feeling good about this one as well, like I did, if they can appreciate some solid filmmaking. It starts off with our broken family trying to spend some quality time together kind of thing for a good 45 minutes of the film a la 'The Shining', and won't really satisfy the horror fan until the second half of the film really. The film is sloooowww, like I said. Patricia Clarkson and Jake Weber's characters are both very well-written. John Speredakos plays his role naturally well, although I had never heard of him until this film. The dialogue is well written, and the most unimportant lines will end up meaningful in the end. The climax of the film is truly the most impressive, and by the end, 'Wendigo' manages to work up a bit of creepiness. The images are nice, lots of dead sticks and s**t. If you're looking for some ridiculously bloody slasher type flick, look elsewhere because that isn't what you'll be getting from this one. The legend of the 'Wendigo' isn't really discussed a whole lot, and someone seeking a ton of information of the folklore of this myth and other Indian myths should probably look elsewhere also, but if you can handle a well-made, unconventional, and original horror story then this could be for you. But be weary if you look to this hoping for it to be 'Urban Legend' or something.WENDIGO -----7/10. "},{"Title":"WOW - what a stinker!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was really disappointed in this film. Usually I will give a film a fighting chance but this one sunk to the bottom of the Marianas Trench. I found it tedious, boring and rather silly at times. The quick strobe-shots of the Wendigo almost had me laughing out loud. I am a great lover of indie films but this one has more of a sophomoric student film feel about it. Even the sound quality seemed student level. I'm not sure how this film (supposedly) garnered such praise from LA Weekly and the New York Times. It baffles me. The acting was second rate - even from Erik per Sullivan, Malcolm in the Middle's Dewey - who I usually find very funny and lively on the TV show. In this film it seemed like he slept-walked throughout the whole film. I'm not even sure that this would have been a better film with a different writer/director because this story seems to have been told before. The Shining meets Prophecy meets The Sixth Sense combo just did not work here. 2/10 stars. "},{"Title":"A flawed attempt of making an intelligent horror movie...","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Larry Fessenden is an independent director who has focused his career in making horror movies with philosophical and existential subtexts. Despite his sparse production (four movies in 16 years), his original approach to the genre and the quality of his work has given him recognition and praise in festivals and in the independent scene. Wendigo, the third of his horror-themed films is probably the weakest of them, but it has many of the unique characteristics of Fessenden's film-making that make it stand out among the genre.A young family of three heads to upstate New York hoping to spend a time relaxing hoping to relieve from the stress from the city. However, they find problems as they find an angry local named Otis (John Speredakos) who is not very happy with having them as neighbors. His strong and intimidating presence serves as catalyst for the family's inner conflicts and fears, specially those of little Miles (Erik Per Sullivan), whose feelings of loneliness are increased due to the fear Otis creates in him. As he learns about the legend of the Wendigo, Miles will learn to face the harsh world that is out there.Very loosely based on the Anishinaabe legend of the Wendigo, the movie is a haunting drama mixed with horror that perfectly combines a lucid visual style with a clever storyline. Told from Miles' point of view, the film is genuinely creepy and the snowy landscapes together with the feeling of isolation Miles feels increase the haunting atmosphere of the film. Basing its scares on mood and atmosphere makes the film a rare species among modern horror movies, and the excellent camera-work makes the film look a lot better than other low-budget independent films.Fessenden visual approach may seem a bit style over substance at first, but he takes a good time in developing the characters and their relationships. In fact, the relationships between them are probably the most important thing in Wendigo. From Miles' distant relationship with his parents George (Jake Webber) and Kim (Patricia Clarkson) to both parents' struggle to keep a balance between job and family's responsibilities. The impact Otis has in the family and the Wendigo's legend work perfectly as plot devices to make the film move.The lead cast is superb, with Erik Per Sullivan being an excellent actor despite his young age. Jake Webber and Patricia Clarkson show their talent and the three of them have very good chemistry as a family. The rest of the cast is average, but their work is fine considering that the center of the film are our three main characters. The Wendigo spirit, an important part of the plot, is very well recreated and despite its cheap low-budget look, Fessenden camera-work make it work very good.Sadly, the movie is not perfect and despite having a very strong start, the movie loses steam and by the end it falls short to the expectations built. Larry Fessenden offers a creative and actually haunting film that is severely hurt by the lack of a competent conclusion, a shame if one considers that the characters are very well developed and the plot has lots of potential. The fact that the use of atmosphere, visuals and audio is superb makes the weak ending the more disappointing. It feels as if Fessenden had not cared about how to finish the tale as the movie feels incomplete.Wendigo has been hailed as both a masterpiece and as a failure. While the movie has enough good things to be called a great film, it's disappointing pay-off and lack of conclusion are a big stain. In this case the best thing to do is to watch and judge for yourself, just don't expect a typical horror film. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Patience best rewards viewers of this Shining-style thriller","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As a character-driven chiller, Wendigo is a thoroughly satisfying film, though not one that successfully plays out its early promise. From the establishing shot of a young family driving a winding road into the darkened wilderness I was immediately reminded of The Shining. And if Wendigo doesn't quite display that films polished visuals, it certainly borrows the themes of isolation and familial tension, especially patriarchal, that Kubrick examined so well. Cult director Larry Fessenden has gone back to horror movie basics to achieve a palpable tension in his film black shadows in every corner of a very-underlit rural house, creaky floorboards, shrieking nighttime winds. His film starts to unravel when he pushes to far - the appearance of the Wendigo, an Indian spirit that travels on the wind, is at first frightening but ultimately overplayed; Fessenden feels compelled to reveal the monster in an extended attack sequence on the films hillbilly badguy, and in doing so belies the slyness with which we had so successfully frightened us up to that point. The ending is particularly murky, both visually and narratively, feeling rushed and a little self-consciously obscure. The cast is uniformly solid Jake Weber and Patricia Clarkson as the yuppies-in-peril are very real, and 'Malcolm In The Middle' youngster Erik Per Sullivan provides the perfect conduit for audience fear and apprehension. The print I viewed at the recent AFM conference was particularly grainy and I am unsure as to whether this was due to the transfer from HDV-to-film or whether Fessenden shot it like that. Regardless, it proved very effective in creating a sense of dread and foreboding, especially in the early twilight scenes. Also nice to see a film that revels in its ability to scare, not always winking at the audience in a self-mocking Scream sort-of way. More often than not lately irony and revisionism have gotten in the way of a good fright, which Wendigo certainly provides.   "},{"Title":"I liked this movie.","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A solid B movie.I like Jake Weber. His understated delivery is refreshing in a time of over the top performances. I liked the relationship between the father and son. I liked the family dynamics. The Wendigo looks silly, but it is a representation of the kid's toy and the dead deer. It's an amalgamation like, see? This is a psychological story, not a Freddy slash em up instant gratification flick. Watch it and reflect on your inner child and what the movie might have to say to you and you'll be fine.Nice work. "},{"Title":"He whispers your name...","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A dark psychological thriller which accesses more of an atmospheric sense of terror, rather than blatant displays of gore - very subtle, leaving the mind to 'fill in' some of the plot ideas - one derives a sense of 'something' haunting the woods, being itself part of the woods, the trees, the grass, the wind, the animals, the night itself. Like The Skin Walker, The Wendigo is the spirit of vengeance in native American culture, invoked to address a wrong committed by the rotten, to set the natural balances straight. A family travels through the backwoods when they become entrapped within a snowy ditch after having struck a deer on the highway, and the only people around are a gaggle of hunting drunken rednecks who complain that the deer's antlers are broken, thus minimizing its prize value. The family eventually make it to their destination, but not after the presumptuous interference of the hicks, especially Otis now and again, who also happens to be a peeping Tom. The new house seems haunted, with its bloody memories appearing to the perceptive son, in somewhat of a sixth sense manner.They take a quick trip into town to survey the local neighborhood, and come across a store selling rather odd little items, when the boy is confronted by a native American stranger who relates to him the legend of 'the wendigo', and bestows him a veritable talisman resembling a deer-like 'Pan' figure - the stranger disappears as mysteriously as he appeared, like the wind, yet the story of the wendigo haunts the boy, who begins sensing its presence throughout the environment, which begins increasing exponentially as the nights go on - a feeling of impending doom looms heavy in the air. So he and pop go sledding, but things go horribly awry, as dad is knocked off therefrom and lays in a bloody heap in the snow. After a few hours of unconsciousness, he is taken to the hospital, and much is revealed in the climax of the film, as the wendigo lurks in the darkness of the forest, taking an anthropomorphic form as well, and justice is served in a delightfully ironic twist at the end.This is probably not a film for those with a short attention span, accustomed to exaggerated stuntman exploits, profuse gore, or fight movies, as again, the plot is subtle, and many wonderful effects are used to accentuate the pleasant eeriness felt here. To truly appreciate the film, one must immerse oneself completely within it. An understanding of metaphor and poetic justice is elemental. After viewing this film, take a brisk walk out into the night - it certainly makes one's Nocturnal Consitutional that much more intriguing... "},{"Title":"The story is not great, but the movie is worth seeing.","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am drawn to watch horror movies, mostly because I like them as an art form, rather than trying to evaluate how scary they are. I want to defend this movie from the readers whom disliked it, even though you all gave good supportive reasons for your negative reviews. There's plenty here that will please certain viewers.First, this horror movie pits a realistic family against credible threats, which makes it easier for the viewer to sympathize with their problems. This is a family of three somewhat neurotic people, so obsessed with having a great time on this vacation that they set you up for the fun of seeing it all be destroyed. The parents are practically fighting with each other to see which one can do a better job of protecting their overly sensitive child. Early on, there's a surprising accident where they hit the deer, and the main thing on their minds is how this might mentally damage their son. Then they find more intimidating problems from several hunters with guns, miffed that these city dwellers have crashed into their prized trophy. Enter Otis, who's obsessively hateful towards George, the protective father, and everything he and his wife and son stand for. This creates a tension that prevails through the rest of the story.I thought the Otis character was very well portrayed as both threatening and realistic; he reminded me of some gym teachers I've feared from junior high school. Meanwhile, George, who's supposed to be watching out for his family's safety, could not foresee what a threat Otis could become. He was all wrapped around the axle that Otis hated him for an accident which wasn't his fault, and he was obsessing about not being able to make peace with him. The incompetence of this protective father is highlighted again when a bullet is shot through his wall. It never occurs to him that it could have hit him, his wife or son, nor does he associate it with Otis, the psychotic hunter, even though we, the viewers, do. Sure, he's upset by the bullet, but not enough to take any precautions against being hit by another one.Then, to add to the fun, the boy sees psychedelic images. I thought that these were entertaining to watch, even though at first I didn't know what was going on. It added to the tensions of this movie to see the boy frightened by his own peculiar illusions, and we wouldn't like this to happen to us either.Don't worry, I'm not trying to analyze the entire movie, but since others have bad-mouthed the sex scene, here is why I thought it was effective. The parents could already see that things were going wrong with their dream trip, the kid was now having wakeful nightmares in his bed, and are the parents aware of this? Of course not They are having a very energetic sex scene. Not only are they oblivious to the fact that their son could easily hear them, and if he happened to leave his bedroom, catch them in the act, but they are also oblivious to Otis, watching, like a spook in their window. It was a good horror movie sex scene; Otis is observing their every move, and he doesn't even care that they may see him. I was wondering what was going on in Otis' mind. It was obviously something perverted, or at least not nice.As for the monster, I think it was an apparition sent by the boy to drive Otis to his destruction. For such a hungry monster, I don't recall it eating anybody. And as for the symbolism in this movie, it reflected upon how easily blind hatred manifests itself in causing intense fear and physical harm to innocent people; the things that good horror movies are made of. In the case of this previously timid child, now he was calling upon supernatural forces to take a deadly revenge.To sum it up, even if it is not quite as great a movie as written up on the DVD box, many horror movie fans should find this worth watching. "},{"Title":"Above average mystery thriller","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this flick on cable before I decided to buy the DVD for a few bucks, so obviously it wasn't that bad at all. I would not call it a horror film (as an actual horror movie is supposed to terrify you in one way or another), the label mystery thriller is more fitting (although it has not too much thrill in it either). I suppose one could also call it a drama with subtle elements of an old fashioned ghost story. It is well worth a watch, though, as the whole mood (that is, for instance, the beautiful scenery) is quite nice. The characters are very believable, not overacting; the dialogues are rather functional (don't expect Shakespeare!) and the supernatural elements are mainly only hinted at. The DVD version I bought has an alternative ending (which shows more of the mythical Wendigo). I rate it 6.5 out of 10, which means the film is above average and worth a rental (and with a bigger budget and a bit more depth and suspense it might have been 8/10). "},{"Title":"Disappointing yet worth watching","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  At the beginning of the film i was on the edge of my seat,the direction and music held me in suspense i was scared and just waiting for something exciting to happen. I was very disappointed towards the end of the movie when i was no longer scared and the story just became silly. It felt rushed and ended bluntly. Although i was disappointed it is still worth wathing this film,there are some great scenes and good acting. "},{"Title":"Most of it just doesn't work","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS**The biggest part of the movie that doesn't work IS the Wendigo, and when your title character fails, your movie usually isn't far behind it. The filmmakers' interpretation of the Wendigo's form is interesting, and can be properly menacing when filmed correctly - when the fleeing killer sees the Wendigo in a flash in his rear view mirror, for instance - and the tree-form was actually very good. However, as a monster character it never really comes to life. We don't get much of an explanation for its behavior, and what we DO see from it doesn't jibe with either the story told in the movie itself, or any Wendigo lore I've ever read.I think one of the main reasons that the monster fails is that it isn't given enough to do, in the movie. When you boil this film down to its bones, what you have is a suspense thriller with a little bit of a supernatural element, instead of a movie about a monster.The cinematography is good, though a little cheesy; the filmmakers use scenery, lighting, and time of day to convey atmosphere and mood rather well. The character of Otis comes across as truly dangerous and unpredictable, making him the real monster in the film. It might have been more effective to explain his behavior as him being possessed by the hungry spirit of the Wendigo, which would also be a more accurate representation of the real legend.I have heard unconfirmed reports (from a newsgroup) that the reason the Wendigo doesn't do much is that, when the monster suit was built, it wound up so heavy and and uncomfortable (in order to mimic the stance of it standing on cloven hooves, the performer had to walk on his toes) that it was nearly impossible to run, walk, or otherwise perform in it. Thus the many flashes of the creature standing still, and the obvious sped-up footage of it running. I stress that these reports are uncomfirmed. "}{"Title":"Like, what was that????","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have a hard time calling this movie lame.  It isn't that good.The editor reminds me of an American tourist in Europe that believes, somehow, that if he yells the Europeans will be able to understand English. The filmmaker, somehow, believes that boring scenes will be scary if you flash them around so quickly the audience is unable to recognize what they have seen.This film also builds on the assumption that Evil exists in this world solely because its victims are stupid.  Every character in this film, when given the choice between a prudent course of action and one of an imbecilic nature without fail chooses the stupidest course possible.  I'm sorry, I know some stupid people and this film is an insult to them.Finally the director cleverly chooses to end on one of those `Draw your own conclusions' notes, but he has failed to give the audience enough information to do so.  ( Or he ran it by so fast we all missed it,)This movie should only be viewed after midnight on Friday or Saturday with several friends after sufficient alcohol has been consumed to make it a bearable experience.  "},{"Title":"Highly ambitious and intriguing but with weird flaws","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  From the first scene, I was really excited. I can tell this is going to be awesome! I thought. The acting was so good, I felt as though I was eaves-dropping on these peoples' lives. The music too was exquisitely unsettling. The plot started with a sudden event and then drifted forward (one could sense) toward some irrevocable fate. The build was slow, but I personally love that kind of thing, as long as the quiet tension stays on track and doesn't get derailed before it's ready to pay off.So everything's going fine, and then the fireworks begin, and before you know it, the credits are rolling. WHAT?!!! was all I and my movie-night companion could say. If you understand the director's intentions, the blunt ending does make sense (for those of you who have seen the movie already, check out the very fascinating and hilarious interview with Larry Fessenden at filmcritic.com), but I can't help saying it was not pulled off quite right.This probably could have been resolved with as little as ten more minutes of material before the climax. In any case, it's too bad. Those ten minutes could have made all the difference in the world. (But for those of you who don't write or make films, you should know that crafting a story arc with the proper timing is a HUGE pain in the butt, and I am certainly not making this critique from any kind of pedestal!)Wendigo feels to me like a masterpiece that was given up on before it was finished.  But hay, I'd take a blunted masterpiece any day over an over-produced piece of dog-poo over-compensated with too many digital effects (like most horror movies these days).One other comment. Some of the monster scenes left me confused as to whether I should be scared or  laughing. I don't know how to explain it, but there was a distinctively Monty Python feel about this monster in his more blatent monster forms. Although this may sound like a terrible criticism for a horror movie--I don't know, it still worked for me in some crooked way. I will never look at deer antlers in the same way again! )  "},{"Title":"Wendigo...more like Where-did-it-go...the story that is.","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Thank the gods, I'm not alone in my opinion of this movie.  I was worried this might turn out to be one of those artsy movies that everyone gets but me.    From the beginning, the situations just don't ring true and the story just never grabs.  There's far too much of basically nothing happening.  There's no tension, no suspense.  By the time something does happen, the execution is so off-the-wall it's simply confusing and distracting. The effects confuse more than intensify and reminded me of an arthouse version of the irritating rock-video tricks so loved by the late 90's, early 2K's horror movie revivalists. I don't doubt the intent was to make a good movie here.  Too bad they failed miserably.  Everything from the title to the story description screams horror/suspense, but what we get instead is far from it.  I guess it tried to be something like Blair Witch, Deliverance, and the Manitou all at the same time.  Heck, I can't figure it out.  In the end, you're just like what was the point?.  A strange question to ask after seeing a horror film, because we all know what the point of a horror/suspense film is, but this movie was trying really hard to be meaningful about something and in the end just ends up as one really bad movie.     "},{"Title":"No really, this IS a bad movie!","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   This movie looks nice and has some nice music, but that's about it. We have a couple and their child driving up to the mountains for a weekend together when they hit a deer. Then we have some rednecks approach who were hunting the deer, and one of them is angry because they broke the deer's antlers, so he acts like a real jerk and waves his gun around while spouting some mindless dialogue that I can't remember. Then the family goes up to their house and talks some more.  There's a lot of talking in this movie. Not one line of it made any impression on me, so I can't tell you what was said. The poor kid seemed to be afraid of everything, but who could blame him, since his parents are real jerks to him. The cursing doesn't bother me much, because my mother could curse pretty well when I was being difficult, and it usually didn't bother me, but they're just terrible parents all around. They seem to have plenty of time to devote to each other, since unfortunately we get to see them making out, having sex, and just basically hanging all over each other constantly, but the little boy is always alone, off in another room. When they do spend time with the boy, it seems forced and uncomfortable. These three were definitely not believable as a family. The only one I came close to caring about was the kid. SPOILERS - Even when the father dies at the end, the mother walks off crying, leaving the child to cope with his father's death alone. That really urked me. - END Not much happens in this movie, though, it just seems like everyone talks endlessly about nothing whatsoever, and half the time you can barely make out what's being said because they're mumbling. What exactly is the movie about? Is it about the Wendigo, or is it about the family being stalked by a crazy hick? You'd probably care if something would just happen, but for most of the movie nothing does. The director seems to be trying really hard to scare us by shining lights in our eyes, shaking the camera, and speeding up the film occasionally, but that just isn't scary. It's boring. And no, I am not someone who thinks that Scream was a great horror movie. But at least Scream had some truly chilling moments, the dialogue was relevant to the story, and there was a feeling that the story was progressing in some fashion. This movie just drags on endlessly, with unnecessary sexual content thrown in every now and then, and then when something DOES happen, it's a laughable disappointment. It was a BIG MISTAKE to show that monster suit. So anyway, I guess if you want to torture yourself by sitting through this travesty of a film, that's your choice. But please don't try to convince yourself it's some kind of masterpiece of understated terror, or something. It IS terrible, and it's OKAY to admit it. No one will think you're some teenybopper Scream lover, or anything.  "},{"Title":"For those who watch it with an open mind, Wendigo will not disappoint you.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's sad to see a movie like Wendigo get such poor reviews on here.  What is interesting is that most of the people who didn't like this film seemed to be more upset at being misled than at the actual movie being bad.  Wendigo is being marketed like it's a horror monster movie.  When you read the back of the video rental box, it actually says that a family gets relentlessly pursued by an evil force or creature of some kind through the woods.  I don't consider it a spoiler at all if I say right now that Wendigo is not a monster movie.  Wendigo isn't even really a horror movie, at least in terms of what we're led to believe when looking at the poster art and plot summary.I rented this film late on a Saturday night, and watched it alone with the lights out after getting into the proper frame of mind.  I knew nothing about the story except for what I read in the video store.  What I expected to see was a disturbingly gory monster flick with hopefully decent acting and production values.  As soon as the movie started I knew I was in for something much different, something more psychological and character driven.  I was pleasantly surprised to say the least.Wendigo is a very good film, although it does have scenes that run too long and the overall pacing is a little off.  It starts with a family driving to a vacation house down a long back-country road through the winter woods.  They end up hitting a deer that was being chased by hunters.  One of the hunters, a rugged redneck named Otis, feels more than a little insulted and humiliated by the city slickers ruining his fun.  He gets into an argument with the father, which leads to some spooky and tragic events later in the film.Not much can be said about the storyline, mainly because there isn't a whole lot that actually happens in Wendigo, at least in terms of action and plot twists.  This movie is more about developing the characters and setting a spooky atmosphere, which I believe was handled very well.  Wendigo may not be a horror movie in classic terms, but it does have a unique creepiness to it, an unsettling feeling that exists from the opening scene until the very last.  This sense of dread was maintained quite consistently and always kept me interested.When viewed as a drama/thriller with subtle supernatural undertones, Wendigo is an extremely engrossing film.  The acting is great.  The family relate and react to each other very realistically.  The dialogue is all well written and well performed.  I was very impressed overall with how realistic the movie was in general.  The characters all seemed like real people, and were not just stereotypes stolen from other films of this kind.On the back of the rental box for Wendigo, it says that it's a cross between 'The Shining' and 'Deliverance'.  That is quite misleading as well.  Although the storyline at certain points could resemble minor parts in either of those two films, I would have to say that Wendigo has more in common with the old Sam Peckinpah classic 'Straw Dogs' than it does with anything else.  In that movie you had a mild-mannered Dustin Hoffman, staying with his wife at a house they were newly renovating.  The carpenters they get to do the work end up having a confrontation with Dustin, which leads to a bloody and violent climax that is unforgettable.Similar to 'Straw Dogs', the father in Wendigo has to deal with the threat of physically imposing men harming his family.  He's a lover not a fighter, but feels the pressure of facing his own masculinity and weaknesses as a man.  Being out in the woods and out of your element, surrounded by the wild nature of man and beast, can be a scary situation when you're feeling threatened and the safety of your family is at stake.  Although not nearly as good as 'Straw Dogs', Wendigo does manage to explore these themes in a refreshing way.Wendigo also has some beautifully creepy scenes.  There are several shots of trees and wooded areas that are both spooky and stunning.  The director of this film definitely knows how to handle a camera, especially when shooting montages of the surrounding wilderness to further enhance the scare factor.  One scene in-particular, when the spirit of the Wendigo looms over a family chopping bloody deer meat and they all freeze in suspended animation when the presence is sensed, is simply incredible.There are of course negative comments to be said about Wendigo, and many of them that have already been said here I can somewhat agree with.  The script gets weak near the end, and the climax does come pretty quickly without you realizing that the movie is almost over.  That's not such a bad thing though, as when it was done I was wanting to see more because I was really getting into it.  But the ending could have used some work, no arguments there.Just ignore the advertising for Wendigo and watch it with an open mind.  I was pleasantly surprised by the depth of the story and the overall creepy vibe it had.  Give it a try.  "},{"Title":"I want my 90 minutes back","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not exactly sure what I've just seen.  Patience is required as nothing happens until 40-45 minutes into the  film.  When something actually *does* happen, it's poorly executed and laughable at best. What a letdown considering the premises and legends concerning the subject.I was warned by the video clerk to skip this one...if only I had listened.  "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Was hoping it was something like the WEndigo story from the X-men series ( which was really cool. BAck in JOhn Byrne days of Xmen). Anyhow, was nothing like it. Not scary, just plain stupid. Writer/Director should be flogged. Story definatly had potential, and how many movies out there deal with American Indian curses/legends? Not many. A wealth of storylines and ideas out there, just need to be done right. "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Major disappointment!  Good cast, well acted, great atmosphere and some really creepy things happen in this movie!  Sounds good, right?  It is, until the end.  The movie (doesn't deserve to be called a film) just ends! The viewer is left shocked and questioning one of two things  did I miss something or did I just waste almost two hours of my life on this.  The answer to question one is No and to question two is a definite Yes! "},{"Title":"Pretty creepy and atmospheric, worth viewing","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Despite what some other reviewers might say, I found this well made indie film to be creepy and very atmospheric. I thought the shots of the woods and snow were well done. The acting was fine and to correct a previous poster. Yes the car was stuck in the snow and yes he could have asked the rednecks to help him out but instead chose to tell him to get away from the car. It was appropriately done, you are forgetting firstly he's holding a high powered rifle; he gave the New Yorker an attitude about hitting the deer beforehand and in general came across as a pretty sketchy character. I'm sure with that in mind you would not then say oh by the way help me move my car you would be cautious of your family inside it, and may not want anything to do with that character, little less be by your family. With that out of the way here is my mini review The film concerns a New Yorker city family going up to the hills for some rest and family time. Along the way they hit a deer and then run into some rednecks, this establishes some characters. The NY'ers have a young son who like to do a lot of reading and sees things at times in his head. The son gets a small wooden statue of the Wendigo given to him by an Indian in a shop in the town. The Indian tells him the story of the Wendigo. It turns out the Indian may have been a spirit himself as he disappears.We are shown how the characters relate to each other and lots of creepy scenes and music. it also appears that the deer hit by the car may have been inhabited by the wendigo spirit.SPOILER ALERT Later on (and skipping a lot) the father gets shot and is taken to the hospital, he was shot by the one redneck named Otis, who gave him the trouble to being with when the father hit the deer. However the young son sees the spirit of the Wendigo in his father and in the woods. He holds the statue tight. Later the Police go to arrest Otis, but Otis kills the sheriff and is on the run when the Wendigo catches up with him and returns the favor. it appears since the boy believes in the Wendigo and holds the statue, the Wendigo kills the man that (as we find out later) kills his dad(he did not survive the shooting when he was brought to the hospital). the film somewhat abruptly ends and that is the only complaint i have, I wish the ending was a bit more expanded, but it does cover everything.The film was well acted, well written, realistic in the actions of the people in it and worth your time to see  "},{"Title":"Good .. Cool ... Great Potential!!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I met Larry at the Fango Convention last year. he was very nice and really cool. we talked for a bit and i couldn't wait to see it. since we don't get many independant releases here i had to wait for DVD. I was impressed. There were some excellent shots and great special effects for the level of movie. I enjoyed watching it although it ended a little abruptly. All in all it was a great movie for the independant horror genre .. i don't think he could've cast a better child. I give it 7 out of 10. It would have gotten an 8 but the lack of music, as with most independant films. makes it drag on at times.Good movie... i would recomend it to anyone and i am lookin forward to Fessenden's next film.  "}{"Title":"Good .. Cool ... Great Potential!!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I met Larry at the Fango Convention last year. he was very nice and really cool. we talked for a bit and i couldn't wait to see it. since we don't get many independant releases here i had to wait for DVD. I was impressed. There were some excellent shots and great special effects for the level of movie. I enjoyed watching it although it ended a little abruptly. All in all it was a great movie for the independant horror genre .. i don't think he could've cast a better child. I give it 7 out of 10. It would have gotten an 8 but the lack of music, as with most independant films. makes it drag on at times.Good movie... i would recomend it to anyone and i am lookin forward to Fessenden's next film.  "},{"Title":"RAVENOUS meets THE SHINING meets DELIVERANCE meets THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT.","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *MAJOR SPOILERS THROUGHOUT* When you put four good movies together, you usually would have a movie four times as good, right? Not with WENDIGO. I think what disappointed most of us was the fact that the blurbs and plot outlines on this film are saying that this family hits a deer and come across three hunters. Then it says something about them getting relentlessly hunted down in the woods and stuff like that. Well, this is mainly the kind of movie we were all hoping for. I have to say that this film is the most surprising film of the year. I wasn't expecting a single thing that happened in this. Because, the film makes it sound like everything in this film happens in one single night of unrelenting terror for the family as they're hunted by the hunters and the mythical beast. Well, none of that happens here folks. There is a lot of boring character development (which really wasn't that important to this film) and there is not enough beast time.That is my other problem. The story of Wendigo is told very accurately, but it is not portrayed correctly. When the beast is finally shown (this is a big mistake right here, you should never show the creature until you absolutely have to), it is shown as some really big deer made out of sticks. Umm, sorry, that isn't the Wendigo. I don't know what the hell the creature is in this film, but it sure as hell ain't the Wendigo. This was not a film about the myth, like how the box tells you. It leads us to belive that this was a dark, scary film about the mythical beast killing people. Well, that right there is what could have been one of the greatest horror films ever, but instead director Larry Fessenden threw it all away.I was still slightly chilled by some of the creepier scenes, but now that I look back on them, I wasn't scared for anything. Because there was no payoff, there were no jumpy moments, which I guess was good because this lets us know that Larry Fessenden isn't going to follow traditional horror film plots, but instead brings an Indian myth somewhat to life. Whether or not its actually living, you can decide, but this was certainly not the film we all expected it to be.Now, the end of this film is what is most interesting. What the screen went black, I was just about to say that better not be the end-- a credit Written and Directed by Larry Fessenden swerved onto the screen. Damn you to hell I thought! Here, I stayed up until two in the morning for no f***ing payoff! There was somewhat of a final climax, but it wasn't what I was expecting. All in all, there is a moral if you look past the silly message and the fact that Larry Fessenden decided to use the good name of the WENDIGO to write a movie that has *nothing* to do with the myth, *around* the myth. You get me? Well, the moral is that you should respect all life, man or animal, and most importantly man and deer. That was the main animal this film focuses on dealing with. After seeing that deer-like stick creature, I will most likely never go deer hunting. So, yeah, WENDIGO isn't the film we came to see, but if you can sit through a couple hours of character development to watch an ancient myth *almost* come to life, then this movie will be good. Otherwise, I recommend that you see RAVENOUS (which is a far better telling of the Wendigo legend), the very creepy THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT and DELIVERANCE.Still, I say this is worth the watch, just make sure that it is very late at night and that all the lights are out. This might creep you out a little bit...WENDIGO gets 3/5. (Average). "},{"Title":"Good acting and Directing, poor outcome","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Forget all the comments about the poor acting. The cast did a terrific job. Very convincing, dry (dogma style-ish) acting and directing.The movie does very good in setting the mood and intriguing the viewer.The movie does poorly on climaxing. A movie, in my opinion, has to have waves of intensity. On the moments of climax the movie just doesn't push enough, plus, the beast(s) are just too unconvincing to scare. It would be better to or keep the beast in suggestion, or make better monsters.The end is also not satisfying. Not that every story has too have an end that closes the circle, but there was just too little to hang on to. Maybe the storyline of Otis had to be dug out a bit more. I don't know.Want to see great acting and directing? (in some scenes the acting is just as natural as can be) Go check this out.Want to see a haunting story with lots of scares? Go rent 'The exorcist' or 'The Ring'. "},{"Title":"My poor college classmate!","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps this will seal the fate of Larry Fessenden who simply doesn't know how to write a coherent effective story nor film a movie.  This so-called horror movie is a mess.  I only rented this because John Speredakos -- who went to college with me -- was in it.  He is much better on the stage, though.  When poor John runs in terror from a laughably conceived wendigo I can only think he was running back to New York City to his much more successful career off-Broadway.  I noted that the wendigos were designed by the writer/editor/director whose apparent Renaissance man talents include amateur taxidermy.  This movie is not about a wendigo at all!  It is a bad movie that starts out as a kind of DELIVERANCE in the Catskills then meanders into a mediocre family drama with inexplicable scenes filmed from the boy's viewpoint that hint at impending horror but NEVER deliver.  It has nothing to do with the Native American mythical monster of the title and mentioned in the only effectively creepy scene in the movie. Apart from a inept script there are several plausibility errors for anyone who grew up in or lives in the area where the movie is set.  For instance, if the family go to a hardware store in Phoenicia, NY close to the Stuckey home why in hell do they drive to a hospital in Danbury, CT which over 85 miles away?  No wonder the father dies! Ugh.  Don't bother with this nonsense.  "},{"Title":"Wendigo is such a disappointing film in My opinion(","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  May contain spoilersI thought this film was going to be a true horror fest with a great creature and is I got out of Wendigo was confusion and a disappointing time.In My book the film was really about the the maniac and the Wendigo was just part of the story which most of the story focused on the family.Here we have a guy looks like Tim Roth and a kid who has action figures older than he is! I know because the Wolf Man figure was made by Imperial and that Voltron(not Transformers as his father character said in the film) was the one of the first versions.Wendigo had some potential at times but having a very unnecessary strong sex scene, confusing moments, and finally seeing the Wendigo (which turned out to be a huge dear that stood on to legs with dozens of tree branches for antlers) at the last part of the film which the spirt or creature really did nothing.When the mess that is Wendigo ended I said that's all? I thought there was going to be a lot more than that.If you like legends of creatures such as Bigfoot and the Mothman and like to be scared and see great horror movies then stay away from this Wendigo that went no where! "},{"Title":"Wheredidmytimego?","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just wasted 90 or so minutes of my life... AND MY WIFE'S... by watching this... crap.  Simply put, it's crap.  Forget the this film is really underrated comments you've seen (it's not... I'd say anything over 2 is too HIGH).  Forget the artsy-folks comments to the contrary, but this movie is simply crap.  It doesn't matter who's in it, it doesn't matter who directed it, no... camera effects don't matter, it doesn't even matter that they have a super-duper, gee-whiz-wow, what-the-hell-is-that cross between a rabid kangaroo and a deer as the title creature... Please folks... learn from my mistake.  Stay home if you have the urge to rent Sub-B rated movies.  Rotate your tires or do the dishes instead... "},{"Title":"An against the odds recommendation","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  	I don't think there are spoilers here but just in case `Spoiler Alert'. 	This movie has been thoroughly trashed in these reviews, and others, and I suppose that if one aligns with certain criteria, it does miserably fail.  Those who feel `Scream' was a great horror film aren't going to like this.  Don't get me wrong, I liked `Scream', I'm not knocking it but `Wendigo' isn't that kind of film.  I think it has a genuine audience out there and I hate to see it slammed because it doesn't fit a slot. 	I think director Larry Fessenden has committed one of those things that happens once in a while and built something larger than his intentions; when skills, materials, participants and vision find a kind of alignment that allows small films of substance to compete with huge productions (remember the original `Halloween', `Night of the Living Dead' or even `The Blair Witch Project'). 	`Wendigo' has been called boring but the `boring' sequences are set ups for later pay offs.  There is a sex scene often called gratuitous yet the scene's exposure of the characters in this most vulnerable of all moments descends into a jarring frame that ties the beginning of the film to it's middle and its end and adds a considerable amount of creep that has nothing to do with the spirit of the film's title. 	The `creature' of the title has been laughed at and insulted because it doesn't rival the CGI razzle dazzle of `Jurassic Park'.  I think Mr. Fessenden erred here not in not creating a more awesome creature but for showing too much of it.  I think he did that to reach for that part of the audience expecting it; think dollars and market.  Even at that, it takes only a minor suspension of disbelief to work through.  I had to do that with `Jurassic Park'. 	I'm not trying to make this an art film or an intellectually superior horror film because it is neither.  I wasn't going to write a review for it until I read some of the critiques. 	This movie has an audience and I hate to see them miss it because it doesn't belong in the same league as the `Hellraisers' or the `Jason' films or the other serial horror movies. 	It is spooky, fun, scary and creeps along beneath your skin.  It doesn't have a tidy denouement and the world isn't explained at the end. 	What it is, is a unique ride through one person's vision of one of horror's tributaries. 	Good stuff.  "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Though a slow mover, this film was interesting and a bit of a thrill. Like playing a frightening game (Resident Evil) or reading a good Stephen King novel for the first time.  The obvious aspect of the film is leaning far towards the malice and idiocy of man.  A great premise, a legend that is not so well known, with some decent acting....considering they were mostly no names.  The creature isn't anything to be thoroughly impressed by, no CGI here but taken in the concept of the film it is used frighteningly well. Big minus....no replay value.  First time seeing it you will (if you are patient) be drawn in and intrigued....though after you see it once you'll have had enough.   "},{"Title":"My comment on the movie","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Damn This is the worst movie I have ever seen. The whole movie I was waiting for a little bit of action. But it was such a waist of time. This movie really sucks "},{"Title":"Scrappy upstate Gothic","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Skip the dismissals below and read Dave Kehr's TIMES review-- he's right about the director's body of work.    POSSIBLE SPOILERS Fessenden's direction has improved over his '97 vampire film-- didn't miss that film's druggy atmospherics at all.  This film has sequences of resourceful low-budget eeriness.   WENDIGO shares one major weakness with the earlier film Fessenden has no skill at all in depicting everyday domestic behavior. That the estimable Patricia Clarkson (whose work in HIGH ART marked her as a female-equiv of C. Walken at comic grotesquerie) hasn't a single chewy scene to work with here indicates misused talent.  The child-actor is fine, though, suggesting a lot more than the script about why his parents are so intent on forging a weekend together.  And a late scene of loved ones babbling as one begins succumbing to blood-loss is a powerhouse. Incidentally, my wanting to see this film was in part due to a late-'50s TV series of literate horror-stories-- SREDNI VASHTAR was in there, and, I believe, THE OPEN WINDOW.  Anyone who saw its WENDIGO episode at age 9 is liable to remember, at inconvenient times, its wood-creature moaning My feet!  My burning feet of fire!!   "}{"Title":"Look for this one at about 3 a.m. on Cinemax","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was horrible.  With the possible (passable?) exception of Miles' character, played by Erik Per Sullivan of 'Malcolm in the Middle', the players were more caricatures than characters.  The dialogue was contrived and stereotypical - characters were never allowed to step outside of their identified stereotypes such as the rural country folk or the yuppie father. A gratuitous and awkward sex scene that served basically no purpose could find a purpose indeed when this movie makes it to television  'Wendigo' may be picked up by Cinemax for late night airing. "},{"Title":"Flashy directing is not enough....","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Two urban yuppies and their kid encounter some scary locals in Weirdoville--is it hillbillies or is it Wendigo??? I wanted to like this film much more then I did. Most of the acting is engaging (Patricia Clarkson is especially good) and the director's crazy gimmicks provide witchy, surprising twists throughout. However, the plot which had so much promise at the beginning, quickly fell flat due to an amateurish, messy execution. Indian-Ghost/hillbilly/archetypal/father and son drama /psychopath/monster movie???? Huh? I'm still underwhelmed hours later. Toward the end there were some inexcusably sloppy plot and special effects disasters that had audience members openly laughing--which was sad considering the film's many strengths. "},{"Title":"not a horror movie but a very good one","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  the real downfall of this movie was that it was advertised as a horror flick so people had certain ideas before they even saw the movie.  I saw it as maybe the fifth film in a 14 hour horror movie festival and i liked it. It is a rather slow film but has some beautiful and eerie cinematography. The monster is treated very well using the common formula less is more, and the acting and script are done very well and by the end of the movie you are really feeling for what has happened.  If you look at this as a horror movie you will either not like it because you expected a horror movie, or be pleasantly surprised and not dissapointed at what you saw. "},{"Title":"Mood(y) Wendigo Just Too Intense","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  From the opening scene, ominously tracking the Volvo with the happy vacationing family into the Catskill mountains, you just know they are doomed. The movie succeeds in generating a creepy atmosphere from first shot to last--everything, even the happy scenes, are undergirded wtih impending doom.And that's what's wrong about it. Unlike a great horror movie, like Scream, where the tension is leavened with humorous scenes and you can ID with the characters in situations other than impending doom, the tension in Wendigo never lets up--you're always keyed up for carnage, and then you come to be disappointed when the carnage is art-movie carnage. It's like a Friday the 13th tone done with Dogma 95 special FX. The kid ends up getting chased by the Wendigo, a legendary Native American monster that is a shapeshifter but is revealed to us as a huge deer with 100-point antlers who stands on two legs.My test for the validity of a scary monster is--would the monster retain scariness standing in a full, lingering shot, or would it get laughed off the screen? The evil rabbit in Donnie Darko passed that test. But take away the speeded-up, Evil Dead style camera tricks from the Wendigo, and you've got a man running through the woods dressed up like an angry deer. "},{"Title":"Is this meant to be a horror film?","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wendigo tells the tale of George (Jake Weber) his wife Kim (Patricia Clarkson) & their young son Miles (Erik Per Sullivan) who are on their way to an isolated house deep in the snowy woods not too far from New York City for the weekend, however tragedy strikes almost immediately as they run into a deer & badly injure it. It seems that three hunters had been tracking the deer for 18 hours & one of them, Otis (John Speredakos), is rather annoyed at George for wounding his prey & worse still breaking it's antler which is worth a fair bit of money. George manages to keep the situation under control & is glad to get to the house, they all spend some quality family time together but inbred redneck Otis still seems to be holding a grudge. Miles is also told by a spooky local (Lloyd Oxendine) that an evil spirit called Wendigo is out there, somewhere in the dense, hostile woods waiting to be called upon...Edited, written & directed by Larry Fessenden I personally didn't think to much of Wendigo. The script doesn't know what it wants to be, this is as much of a family bonding drama as it is horror. The Wendigo creature that the title refers to doesn't appear until 10 minutes before the end & until that point has no relevance to the story except as some local legend, it isn't really a monster indiscriminately killing innocent people so forget about any high body count as only one person dies for sure & no-one actually dies on screen. The film is painfully slow at times & virtually nothing happens, family drive to isolated house, kill deer, annoy local idiot & that's about it! There are very few character's, only four main ones, the dialogue isn't that interesting & it takes itself far too seriously for it's own good. I just found the whole thing boring, dull, uneventful & a bit of a waste of 90 minutes of my life which I will never get back. Wasn't keen on the nothing ending either.Director Fessenden does a good job at creating a nice atmosphere throughout with the nice snowy, desolate, remote & bleak locations & they certainly would make a great location for a good horror, unfortunately this isn't it. It has the look of The Blair Witch Project (1999) about it, woods, jerky hand held camera movements & a certain documentary style & feel to it. The Wendigo creature is barely seen & when it does make an appearance at the end it looks like a man in a deer suit running through the woods, then again that's probably what it was. Forget about any gore, a dead deer, some chopped up deer meat, someone is hit with a hammer & that's yer lot.Technically Wendigo is alright & has a certain unique style about it, but then so did The Blair Witch Project & look at how many people hated that. I personally didn't think the acting was up to much & Weber in particular seems totally uninterested & lifeless.As far as I'm concerned Wendigo is another low budget boring piece of crap that was as exciting as watching paint dry, what's wrong with good old fashioned exploitation, monsters, blood, gore, murder & off beat likable character's? Horror film fans might want to give it a go but even they might find the whole thing rather tame & flaccid. I did like the end credits though as they scrolled up over some nice blue silhouette's of trees as flakes of snow fall... "},{"Title":"disappointed","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I recently viewed this film for the first time. Now, I do admit that I am a fan of gory horror movies, but at the same time movies that intrigue the human mind. By no means should a horror movie be classified by the amount of gore because there have been dozens of great movies in the past that have scared the wits out of me without the need of graphic violence. Now as you read the first half of my comment, you see that I have yet to talk about the film. The film was quite similar in that the first half all but gave me the greatest sleep I've had in years. The opening scene possibly makes you think something exciting is going to happen and yet nothing does. To be perfectly honest, as I was watching, I had to check the genre classification of this film to make sure I saw right because in now way could this be viewed as a horror film as there is NOTHING scary about it what so ever. The actual creature (which I practically laughed at when it first appeared on screen) that is supposed to scare you did nothing of the sort. The only person who gave the movie any life was John Speredakos whose character (as little as it appeared) was still quite plausible. The movie was only an hour and half long and the first hour had NOTHING. Yet, they still managed a sex scene which proves to me that the director felt that sex would grab the audience's attention more so than an actual thrill. The acting was good, but there was no substance to the plot and I was very disappointed. Luckily, I caught it on IFC and did not have to pay money for such a wrongly-classified film. "},{"Title":"depressing","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I like scary movies, I like art movies, I like coming of age movies, I can even tolerate the tearjerker dramas. This movie aspires to be a little of all of those and succeeds at none. As viewer, you are treated to a series of tragic events that take place and have the pleasure to witness a little boys physiologically scaring. I'm not saying that every movie has to tie up loose ends, but this movies ending felt like a cheapshot - Sorry kid, no tooth fairy. Sucks to be you - good luck. What's the point of this movie? The pacing is very slow. It's not scary. I'm not left with profound revelations. There's no karmic payback for enduring this extremely depressing movie. "},{"Title":"beating a dead deer","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i will begin with my positive comments, the few there are. the script seemed well written and the acting was for the most part believable, except with the line what are you, the devil?, and i mean for both the writing and acting. there are some really great shots to, and the first three quarters of the film are (yet again) for the most part well edited, EXCEPT for the unbearable and relentlessly cruel beating of the dead horse (or deer in this case) that is the painfully unnecessary and redundant voice over of the native American guy. now for the negatives. the moral of this parable is ridiculous, trite and clich. yeah yeah yeah, blah blah blah, balance of nature, nothing on earth or under the sky is good or evil, killing stuff bad, we get it. i think he just took scenes from evil dead, deliverance, and Bambi, put them into a hat, and presto, instant dung fest. comparing this to George Romero's subtle commentary in his films through use of satire, as some here have done, should be punishable by being sent to the ninth circle of hell, then proceeding directly to the center, where they will promptly and rightfully replace Judas Iscariot in the center mouth of Satan. when my girlfriend and i started this movie on the DVD player, for some strange reason it was in black and white. i stopped it about 20 minutes in to get my clothes out of the dryer, and when i started it up again it was suddenly in color, which by the way i was, and still am, very disappointed about. i am in the strange limbo between blood and guts horror and the less is more camps in my movie preferences. it seems to me though that, edited well, both can be used effectively in the same film to great success. a talented director, regardless of budget, can manipulate the audience employing both techniques. as far as this movie goes i think he should have followed in Kubrick's path when he did not show the aliens at all in 2001. the physical manifestation (all be it aptly timed) is laughable... literally.so here are my recommendations to make this movie better. 1. black and white with higher contrast (you can do both of these on your TV)2. get rid of the redundant voice over. try some silence to let the audience ruminate over what is going on, and stop beating THEM over the head WITH said dead deer. (try saying that ten times fast)3. if it looks like a guy in a fuzzy animal costume, it's only cool if it is supposed to look like a guy in a fuzzy animal costume, no matter how fast you show him running. "},{"Title":"Slow Through and Through","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wendigo could be touted as a speeded up version of 24, only without any of the stuff that makes 24 what it is.No, Wendigo is a film that doesn't seem to know what it wants to be. Basic premise is that a man runs a deer over in the forest and the man's kid son spends the rest of the movie worrying about said deer, which then bubbles up into the Wendigo spirit which then supposedly does something towards the end of the film. In all honesty I'd lost interest by then anyway.All the main characters looked bored from the outset. The movie doesn't really seem to go anywhere but that may be because the movie is trying (unsuccessfully) to tell three different stories, none of which are particularly fascinating given the situation.A slow burner, not one that I'd recommend to others BUT having said that, some people will like it if you're into this sort of thing. I suggest you take this movie out on rental first before buying it, as despite its theme it may not be what you're expecting. "},{"Title":"B for effort","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" WENDIGO is not a great movie. In fact, it's not much of a movie. It's simply too experimental to be seen as a straight-forward film, as horror or as a drama with supernatural overtones. It doesn't mean it's bad or even good. The intentions of the folks behind the camera were in the right place and I enjoyed watching it as an experimental film. But I can't say that it's 100% successful as movie. The one thing that stood out from the movie was the sex scene. I don't mind sex scenes but I thought the sex scene was totally out of place in this movie, which felt more like a children's movie than anything else. It was incongruous with the tone of the film/story.Anyway, it's a nice effort. Nothing else. Nothing more. "}{"Title":"Combined horror/drama sans scares/storyline","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched Wendigo for the first and most likely the last time this evening. I actually had a few expectations before burrowing down in front of the the TV set, discounting the low ratings it's gotten so far here on IMDb. But after watching for half an hour or so, I realized that Wendigo got the rating it deserved. It IS bad.Synopsis Big city photographer takes his family to a cabin in the middle of nowhere for a weekend. Big city family and small town folks don't go well together. Add to this that the photographer's son starts hallucinating about wendigos, creatures or spirits from Indian folklore. Then it all turns to the worse.One of the reasons for my fairly high expectations is that the story and setting in my opinion is ideal for the kind of horror/suspense movies that I like. A good foundation to build a solid horror flick on. I like elements from traditional folklore, I like isolated settings, I like mysteries in the dark.But... NOTHING ever happens. No pace, no action, no scares. Just a lot of nothing. About half-way through the movie there are actually some mystery/suspense starting to build up, and we get a crash course in the nature of wendigos. Then it's all downhill again.After watching for an hour so, it still felt as we were in the beginning of the story. Nothing had really happened. With about five minutes remaining, the story had ALMOST gotten half-way, something had happened that could get the pace going. And then, Wendigo ends. With nothing.Really a shame, as I feel that they could have done a whole lot more with this concept. The wendigo is well known since Pet Sematary (by Stephen King) went up on the movie theaters. But I somehow get a feeling that Pet Sematary is the reason for naming this movie Wendigo - People will recognize the name, and watch the movie expecting it to be somewhat Stephen King-ish.The biggest flaw is all time wasted on pointless talk. Don't get me wrong, I have nothing against conversations between the characters, but there are no purpose with the talk in Wendigo. The movie is about 80 minutes long, and starts with a bunch of guys standing around a car stuck in a snow drift, arguing about nothing. For 20 minutes! A scene that could have been cut down to 5 minutes or less. And it is followed of 20 minutes of watching a family looking around the house they will spend their weekend in. Another scene that could have been shortened down a great deal. Followed by a quarter of an hour of watching the family go to the local village to buy some groceries, and THEN we're finally let in on the theme of the movie. A lot of time wasted, in my opinion.Wendigo is primarily supposed to be a horror flick, not a drama. Categories that are not easily combined into something believable or even watchable. Usually, you end up with combining the all weaknesses and none of the strengths. A slow-paced story that is hard to believe, that is.Pro's The acting is quite good. But good acting is just one part of a whole, and can rarely - although there are exceptions - compensate for a storyline found wanting.To sum it up, Wendigo had the promise of becoming a great horror/mystery/suspense movie, OR it could have been a drama, had the supernatural theme been left out. But it didn't, because it tries to combine elements that don't work well together, resulting in a slow-paced and hard to believe meltdown.To those of you who find something special about this movie - Sorry folks, I'm not going with it. Wendigo is plain bad. There are movies - that I happen to be quite fond of - that requires the viewer to think in order to understand, but Wendigo is not one of them.I rate this flick 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Creepy Trip to Nowhere","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While visually and audibly atmospheric,as well as some powerful opening scenes, Wendigo remains too ambiguous to be satisfying. The biggest failures come in the unexplained history of the menacing Otis as well as a poorly render Wendigo. Curse of the Demon did a similar monster nearly 50 years ago and it is MUCH better than the Wendigo. I give Wendigo a 4.It's too bad, because the performances are uniformly good. Jake Weber and the actor playing Otis come across best.If you ever saw an episode of Touching Evil, you can appreciate how much better the photographic and audio effects are used here. Pity, the movie comes across as unfinished. "},{"Title":"(lack of) ending spoils the whole thing","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If a movie could be a flop just because of a bad ending then Wendigo is number 1 on the list. The movie starts OK, even the middle is nice. Nowhere near a horror movie though, but the movie is saying dont worry, we will get there. It never does. Not only the suspense is not there, also the ending is lacking. What the f* where they thinking? Did they run out of money? Or maybe they just ran out of ideas.... Or it could just be that they were so tired of making the movie that they decided they did not want to go any further and stopped screening and put in the credits.... I have never ever seen such an abrupt ending all my life....Because we got to see half a movie I gave it half a grade 3, which is, actually a bit high, but its X-mas. "},{"Title":"How dare they compare this to the Shining!","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The description of this movie on the box was pretty intriguing to saythe least. I was sure I'd be in for a treat when I popped it into myVCR late last night with two french bread pizzas steaming away ona plate before me whilst a cool chill in the air dripped outside mylivingroom window. ... Lights, camera, BLEH!! What the hell wasthis all about? Half man, half deer!!! Give me a break. OOOOOhhhscary! The best part of this film was when the husband wasbanging the wife on the couch ... and even that should of beenlonger. Wendigo? How bout Crapigo! Strong sexual scene? Not. But I guess if there is one good thing Ican say about this film is the atmosphere of the setting is prettycool and creepy.  "},{"Title":"About as amateurish as they come!","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is GOLD FOREVER...(but not for the right reasons!)Hey man, my girlfriend and I never laughed so much after a film, we were lying in bed hours afterwards picking this one apart...what trash!I'm still not sure what the writers and producers of this film were trying to do but whatever it was they got it horribly wrong. Maybe they had a 'Blair Witch' type effort in mind, who knows? you can only guess! The end result looked suspiciously like a hastily cobbled together 6th form drama project to me, a 10 quid budget and only 2 hours before they had to hand the camera back.*** spoilers ***A family (2 adults and a young bairn) drive on holiday to the country accidentally killing a deer and upsetting the locals on the way. The boy keeps freaking out seeing images and then some guy in a deer like costume prances around for a bit at the end. Most of it was just a blur and I wasn't even drinking!The characters were wooden, I had to strain my ears to hear what they were saying more than once, the plot was laughably pretentious and the whole thing moved at a snails pace except for the rushed ending by which time everybody involved looked like they'd lost interest anyway. Believe me this film looks like its been rescued from a rubbish bin.I'll never forget this film though, the laughs I had....oh the irrelevant spelling tests and phone calls they used as padding. The guy in the baseball cap that shoots the holy man for no apparent reason! That stupid sex scene!Watch this un for a good laugh only!  "},{"Title":"WOW - I can't recall a worse movie!","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was horrible, not horror(able), the horror was only that it was ever made and worse that Cinemax would show it. What is scary to me is people describing this film as brilliant!?! It sort of played like a seventies era flick, in fact I checked twice to see if this was really made in the modern age. The deer guy was funny though, right out of Monty Python. Actually it sort of reminded me of Blair Witch Project with the amateurish camera sequences, but Wendigo pulled it off without being even remotely scary. Questions if anyone knows Did the father die? That wasn't clear and what was the deal with the boots in the hall? Anyway, if you want to see a real horror movie get Jeepers Creepers. It made this movie look funny by comparison. Ciao..  "},{"Title":"Not a masterpiece but suitably creepy","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  NYC family of three travels upstate to stay at rustic farmhouse for the weekend.  An ugly incident occurs involving the local peasantry.  The parents recover enough to have a very sexy love scene and that's the last bit of pleasantness for the rest of the picture.  The focus is then on their young son Miles who has a passion for mystical Native American lore; he acquires a talisman called a Wendigo and it serves as a kind of protector for him.  More shocking (yet subtle, in the quick-cut style of The Ring) violence occurs followed by a sharp twist & then it's over.   I found the critter rather hokey on full view but everything else works pretty well & will give you the creeps if you relax your hold on reality for a couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Not for teenagers","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Judging from the majority of comments about Wendigo, an awful lot of people expected this to be another slice and dice slasher movie, or at least another ironic post-modern horror tribute. Instead it's a brilliant character study about culture clash, mythology, and the power and strength of family. Directed, written, and edited by Larry Fessenden, also responsible for the equally fine (but very different) Habit, Wendigo is set in the snowy reaches of the Catskills, where a family of three (Jake Weber, indie queen Patricia Clarkson, and Malcolm In the Middle star Erik Per Sullivan) are taking a break from their stressful big city lives. On their way to a friend's winter cabin they hit a deer, spoiling the fun for a group of local hunters, and things slowly (very slowly) start to spiral out of control. Some comments imply this a Deliverance style chase thriller, and while the character of Otis Spunkey (an appropriately bitter performance by John Speredakos) would seem to support that contention, the other local backwoods types are portrayed as neutral bystanders simply getting on with their daily lives. Indeed, Wendigo is quite even-handed, pitting the intruders fear and lack of trust in human nature against Otis' (understandable) resentment of outsiders. The film repeatedly echoes Stanley Kubrick's overrated bloater The Shining, with long tracking shots and snowbound settings, but is ultimately the better film, establishing deep emotional connections between its characters and keeping a tight grip on the tension-o-meter. The cast is uniformly fine, with particular kudos to Christopher Wynkoop as the straight talking local sheriff and to Sullivan, who proves he's not a one note child actor. Like Habit, the film's final 15 minutes are a slight letdown, but overall this is further proof of Fessenden's outstanding talent.  "},{"Title":"Not Worth Watching for Free","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Boring, horrible.  It's this boring tale of a family that hits a deer on their way to their winter vacation house.  And all along the former owner's relative is stalking them.  The supposed monster at the end is so low budget and dumb, it's just not worth watching for free.  Most of the movie looks like the child imagining stuff.  I wasn't even thinking horror movie at all.  It's a really bad movie and not in a so bad it's good way.  This is a boring, terrible movie.  Like I give it zero stars. "},{"Title":"Don't expect a scary, supernatural thriller","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The pace of Wendigo is very slow, and the movie is only 90 minutes long. This would have been better as a half hour short story. It seemed more like an episode of Tales from the Darkside. Not a lot of creepy things happen. We are well into the movie before we see the first creepy thing, which is when the boy meets an Indian in a store and he gives him a figurine of a Wendigo. When asked, the lady who runs the store says an Indian doesn't work there.  Throughout the film, the family keeps running into this mean guy, Otis.  He is just a jerk and part psycho, but toward the end he really does a number on a cop. The scenes in the hospital were weird with the kid because I assume the kid was seeing the Wendigo spirit that the adults didn't see. But, I'm not sure about that because that part was never explained.The Wendigo is never really scary. It just freaks out Otis and causes him to crash the truck. I was never really sure what it had to do with Miles's dad. The script should have given more detail.FINAL VERDICT It was disappointing because I thought this would be a scary movie. It's not worth paying to see. "}{"Title":"Larry Fessenden stole 2 hours of my life.","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Shame on all who were involved in the making of this movie.  The time, effort, and money spent on this horrendous project could have fed homeless people or entertained the elderly for christ's sake!!!This was an project of pretention and nothing else.  This is the worst movie ever made.  Every ten minute long pointless piece of dialogue sickened me. I pity the writer/director/editor.  Anyone else who wasted two hours of their life to view this monstrosity of a picture deserves the favor of never having to witness anything by larry fesenden again.Shame on all of you pretentious high school grade film makers. "},{"Title":"Slow-paced and disappointing","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First off, from the trailers etc used to promote this film, it seemed to me that they were promoting Wendigo as a psychological thriller and horror flick that would leave you thinking about it for days after. Not true. Wendigo is slow-paced and disappointing throughout, after a promising opening scene is thrown away. However, there are a few good scenes, but not enough to make this a film worth seeing. If a film full of suspense and mind-games is what you're after, go and see The Shining. "},{"Title":"False Advertising","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Who was this film meant to satisfy?  Boring, mildly pretentious and pointless.  Movies like this will be the end of the low budget horror genre - because they are not scary!  The only person who deserves any merit on this project is the graphic artist who designed the dvd cover box and tricked me into thinking this might be either a horror film or a story about the mythical beast called Wendigo!  The movie was not.Also this is another film written by someone who has never left the city because everyone outside of it in this script is a rehashed redneck from 70's stereotypes! Ugh.  "},{"Title":"Watch your grass grow instead","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Ebert should be banned from moving reviewing for giving this 2 1/2 stars.  He said the only reason he didn't recommend it was because of the ending.The movie is not creepy, spooky, scary, nor original.  It is slow, boring, and the acting is subpar.  The creature looks like a stuffed dear on wires once you finally get to it.Sit outside in your front lawn and watch your grass grow for 1 1/2 hours.  It will be a much more rewarding experience.  "},{"Title":"Haunted by what?.......The money I spent renting this thing!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The director/writer/etc. claims in his interview on the DVD that he heard the story of the wendigo in 3rd grade and has been haunted by it ever since. Unfortunately he cannot remember any of the story other than the sound of the creature's cry.  I read about the wendigo as a kid and also remembered the story to a certain extent.  I was not sure, however, if I was mixing up my monsters and did what the director should have done.  I double checked my mythology on the internet.  Sure enough the creature I remembered that ate human flesh with horrible, viciously sharp, yellowish fangs and was so thin that he could only be seen head on was the wendigo of legend.I only wish the director of this pathetic film had done a bit of checking about his monster before beginning this waste of celluloid he calls a film.I do have to say that even if I had checked out other people's reviews of this movie on IMDB or anywhere else I probably would still have rented this movie because I never listen to others about films I should avoid because I ADORE monster/horror/suspense films and have always found something to appreciate in any of them I have ever seen......until I saw this thing. From the tension building mastery in Signs, to the predictability of The Toolbox Murders, to the creativity used in attempting to achieve gigantic monster horror in the early stop motion work of Ray Harryhausen and others. Even the recent movies that ended in disappointment for me (like Jeepers Creepers) have something good to offer (the tension and all too possible terror in the unknown trucker following the kids in the beginning of Jeepers); and without the (pathetic to some)efforts of the oldies working with little more than makeup, patience, and groups of single frame changes we would not have the more explosive and tension causing effects we see today.  Every past attempt to make our movie monsters come alive so vividly has helped the industry change and grow including the things that today's jaded movie patrons scoff at; the zipper up Ricou Browning's Creature from the Black Lagoon costume for example, stood out so clearly that it probably set some monster maker looking for the beginnings of what has turned into the amazing care that goes into things like the loose skin effect used so well on Vincent D'Onofrio in Men in Black.However, Wendigo was more than a disappointment.  I honestly had to ask myself if the movie on the DVD was actually the stuff meant for the cutting room floor.  The plot was not even non-existent enough to allow the viewer to dismiss it (which can help with some of the older horror pictures). You could tell that the writer honestly had something he wanted to say, even if it was only a creepy story he wanted to tell by the campfire, but it was like listening to someone stutter in strongly accented English.  Even the parts you could catch made little to no sense.I appreciate that he felt the hand held camera work would add to his film but it ended up making the atmosphere a bit like watching the video shot by a not so favorite uncle of the boat trip you spent hanging over the side being sick.  You just got sick all over again.After viewing the movie I thought that maybe the writer/director had heard a different tale of the wendigo than I had so I figured that I'd watch the search for the wendigo feature and try and find the story he had heard. No such luck.  Never before has a making of featurette left me more confused than the movie.  I suspect someone told him he should/could put one on the DVD but no one explained to him the point of the exercise.  There wasn't even any explanation of what was happening beyond names and titles of some of the people you saw on the screen.In failing to find a description of the legend he was trying to use with the search for the wendigo  I decided to try watching his interview figuring here at last he would tell at least the bare bones of the legend and/or the story he was trying to present.  Again I was to be denied.  He not only stated that he couldn't remember the story that had haunted him so; but he didn't even bother to give any information about the film he was trying to present.  He talked about the fact that he always would like to do his films over and try to truly present the vision he has while writing them but that to do so would pretty much require unlimited time and budget.  I say that if he ever finds someone interested in giving him the unlimited budget to make Wendigo over again the person with the money should call me first so I can tell them about some ocean front property I have for sale in Kansas.The only thing about this movie that gave me a true scare is the fact that I considered buying it without renting it first.  Thank heavens I only rented it.  I feel like the chick in a horror film who gets away as the monster is gutting her not so lucky friend.  I don't think even the MST3K gang should waste their time on this thing. "},{"Title":"Wake me up when it's over, thanks.","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I consider my self to be a great fan of horror films....but when I rented Wendigo on DVD I was tremendously disappointed.  Nothing....and by nothing I mean absolutely nothing worked in this movie.  The ending, the story, the creature itself, the plot, the theme....nothing.I've not seen any of director Larry Fessenden work and I don't think I could stay awake doing so. If anyone gives you this movie as a gift return it and get something you might enjoy, I'd personally recommend Dog Soldiers, this movie delivers and is truly a horror film.In closing I remember watching America's Funniest Home Videos as a kid and seeing Larry Fessenden's Wendigo on the show, only back then it was called the Jackalope.  "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented Ravenous the other night because it's one of my all-time favorite movies and I wanted my son to see it. While at the video store, I came across Wendigo, and thinking, Hey, we can make a double feature out of this!, I foolishly added it to my rental stack. What a let down! Horrible horrible movie. As others have mentioned, the Wendigo is possibly the worst monster onscreen. It's a guy in a deer-suit. Instead of being frightened, my son and I were in hysterics! Not to mention, the choppy hand-held camera movements and pointless fast-motion effects made me want to vomit. There were some shots of the trees that were cool, but when cool shots of trees is the best you can get out of a film, that's pretty bad. I also despised the mother in this movie. I thought she looked way too old to be Miles' mom... she could've been his grandma! She didn't evoke compassion in me at all, so I was actually hoping she'd get killed...alas...Dewey/Miles was decent in this film... he really didn't have much to do except make that facial expression he's famous for... the eyes= wide- open, sharp- breath -in kinda face... If you want to see a GREAT film about the Wendigo myth, please please please rent/buy RAVENOUS. You won't be disappointed. WENDIGO is a waste of time, you're left thinking, That's it?, and the characters are completely unlikeable.  "},{"Title":"This was horror? Hardly...","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is ranking high on my top 5 worst movie's ever list. I cannot believe I actually watched the whole thing. It started when I was at the video store looking for something to rent and saw this movie, thinking it looked interesting. Boy, was I ever wrong! My friends will no longer let me go to the store to pick movies. If you are considering this flick, drop that box and run!Claiming to be a horror is the one thing about this movie that I couldn't understand. The only thing scary was the lame attempt the Wendigo creature made trying to be evil. I actually laughed hysterically when it appeared. It looks like a giant deer made of sticks. Hardly scary.When the movie ended, I just there in utter awe at the stupidity of it. It had a weak plot line and terrible ending. DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE! Unless, of course, you are dying to see how lame it is... "},{"Title":"Confusing and ultimately pointless","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had some interesting moments (the dialogue was intermittently clever) but ultimately the meandering plot collapsed under the weight of its own aspirations. The characterisation was weak, the characters were irksome, and each scene seemed to serve only as a too-obvious prompt for the next unlikely development. The introduction of the Indian character was wildly cliched and the subsequent voiceovers were risible giving the wendigo a massively overstated build-up so that when the creature finally appeared it could only disappoint (give me my liver!).If the wendigo really had such insatiable desire for human flesh, such that it could never get enough, why didn't the poor deer just vanquish the lot of them at the start and save us all the trouble of watching this movie wend to its tortuous conclusion?  "},{"Title":"Don't watch it!","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I can honestly say that for the first time in years I have found a genuine waste-of-space-movie. Very boring - nothing actually happened... I strongly recommend that if you just spent money on this movie, go and demand a refund! Lastly.... don't be fooled by the supposed HORROR aspect to this movie... Bugs Bunny is more horror than this. "}{"Title":"Wendi ....go! A Misbegotten Mess","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The worst. If memory serves Larry wrote, directed and edited. Never has there been a more compelling argument for spending a few shekels on a real editor. My guess is Larry falls in love with his scenes to the point where there is no pacing whatsoever. You keeping thinking there's a reason for this scene to go so slowly but there never is. One wonders how the director viewed his creation. Did he see it as an art film, a horror film, a mythic beastie film, a through-the-child's-eyes film? It manages to fail at every possible level. What I'll never understand is how films this poorly conceived ever get funded. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had never heard of this film or anything about anyone in it or who made it, so I had a quick look on the good old IMDB to get some feed back. Now I have been on here once or twice and read about films I have seen and thought had the people who write on here ever seen the same film I have, so I took what people had said with a pinch of salt and decided I had to watch this film with an open mind.90 mins later and all I had seen was a TV movie about a couple who are having some problems and a kid (who has no idea how to act!!) who go on a vacation to become more together, rub up a strange redneck the wrong way, he then does something and then he buys it!!.....oh and in there is some indian bloke and a very sad looking rudolf thing?!?!?And that was it!!......I thought I had got the wrong movie, I thought this was a suspensful horror, thriller type ride, but......hummmmmmm!!I would never watch this again, and I would not recommend it, but I have seen worse films, this at least had some quality cinematography and camera movements, BUT that can never make up for a lame film!!!Please listen to these people this once..this film is pants!!! "},{"Title":"A mundane family takes a weekend in the Catskills and gets what they deserve in this visually pretentious mood piece.","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's pretty hard to care too much about the family in this picture because they're so vacuous to begin with.  The wife's a harpy, the father's ineffectual and the kid's a wimp.  They're all easy to dislike...and so they are...and so they get into trouble with the locals. The spiritual aspect of the picture is convoluted, while the Native-American connection and the showy, time-controlled camera effects are pretentious.  Poor material, but nicely crafted for a low-budget effort.     "},{"Title":"What Was This??????????????????????","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Horrible!!!!!  I am not going to blame the DVD box for misleading me, I have to admit that I checked IMBD before I rented this crap, but I told myself to give it a chance.  Well, I did, and I should've joined the majority of the reviewers here......this sh*t stunk!!  Absolutely no action at all.  The only action in this bag was the sex scene.  This film was junk.   Who in the world could like this?  It made absolutely no sense at all, none.  STAY AWAY FROM THIS...YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED! "},{"Title":"Digo My Brain, Boring","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film wants to be too many things at once, preposterous art house flick, horror film, and porn film but in the end, it turns out to be stupid and quite boring.  The premise is that a child, with disturbing qualities, namely a shyness that is so terrifying, and an excessive imagination. There is absolutely nothing in this film that qualifies it as a horror flick so I suggest people ignorning it.  A big waste of time. "},{"Title":"The power of myth","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A simple exercise in basic horror, Wendigo is an indie movie that doesn't have many pretentions but manages to take full advantage of the Catskills backdrop, and the indian folk tales. Wendigo explores the fear of the dark we have as children and crosses it with the mythology of native-americans. The result is a regular indie movie, with some, even if limited, appeal. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever viewed","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  People, if you want to spent an hour or two of your life and don't care what you do with it.Then rent this movie. But if you have anything else you would rather do,(Like sticking sharp objects through your arm) or better, then stay away from this boring, stupid movie.I usually do not rate movies that are bad because reviews will tell the viewers that it is a stinker. But when I read the reviews, they did not say how really bad this so called movie is.So after I spent an hour or so on this so called movie, I felt I needed to warn others. Do not pay attention to the reviews that say this is a so so movie. IT IS NOT  It Sucks big time. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED. "},{"Title":"Just Say No to Wendigo","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I had the great pleasure of viewing feardotcom and Wendigo on consecutive weekends (my own stupid choice), and I must say I am now inspired to venture into moviemaking.  Apparently, the latest thinking is that quirky camera techniques and strobe-imaging make for a very scary production.  Storyline is merely an afterthought.This movie is silly from the outset.  When the deer is hit, it looks like one of the propmen tossed a stuffed deer onto the hood of the car, the woman playing the wife overacts throughout, and I never did understand what the rednecks had against this family.  Admittedly, some of the actors did display some actual talent, so I guess that would put this a notch above feardotcom.  But that's hardly a recommendation.Don't let your curiosity get the best of you - leave this one on the shelf.  It deserves all of the panning it's received thusfar. "},{"Title":"Appreciate WENDIGO for what it is social horror.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  To those who did not appreciate WENDIGO, here's my humble advice If you let this movie take you on the ride it sets out to take you on, not the ride you'd like to take, or expect it to conform to, then perhaps you'd appreciate it for what it is. This movie is a thoughtful exploration of intimidation and violence, a child's awakening to the confusing adult world, and mythology, past and present, as a way to cope with what cannot be easily explained (said violence, for example). Horror comes in many forms, as do horror movies, and WENDIGO is a horror movie in the sense that, say, Todd Hayne's SAFE or Stanley Kubrick's EYES WIDE SHUT is a horror movie. This kind of social horror can seem intellectual (and it is, to a point) yet at its core it is more concerned with the subtlety and contradictions of real human emotion. WENDIGO is, admittedly, a highly symbolic and metaphorical film, which, understandably, can be off-putting to some. Maybe some of the folks who didn't like WENDIGO were just expecting a straight-up monster movie. This movie is better than that (not that there's anything wrong with monster movies). WENDIGO really deserves its critical praise and its director deserves to have more films financed. If he does, I'll be watching. "},{"Title":"What the...  ??","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  That's what I said when this film ended.Seriously, this is probably the worst movie I have ever seen in my entire life.This is unbelievably slow, and the characters lack the least bit of common sense, for the sake of the plot.   Probably the most unbelievable family in film history.  The mother wields the f word like the redneck Otis wields his gun, both doing so in front of the child.  She talks to the son like he is someone else's - a completely uncomfortable mother-child relationship. Interaction between husband and wife is pathetic, yet in what I'm guessing is an effort to work in the gratuitous sex scene, they are rubbing on each other almost constantly...   huh?We rented the video, thankfully... I'm thinking maybe the CD version includes bonus plot holes.I tried to like this; the nicest thing I can say is that the camera work was uh, different, as well as the audio, but when combined with the writing and directing, the word that comes to mind is simply cheap.   Those who defend this movie seem to think if you don't like this, you're into slasher movies, but not so - I love a good horror film that messes with your head.  I don't need blood and guts or multi-million dollar special effects.   I do however need a solid plot, believable characters and an ENDING!  This just drops off.  Done.  Poof!  I'm thinking maybe this was an act of mercy, my boyfriend says they ran out of money.   Either could be true.And I'd much prefer to use my imagination where the monster is concerned, as to my amazement in seeing this monster, a silly deer-man strongly resembling Jack Ching ba-da-Bing, the stuffed-toy Jackalope from America's Funniest Home Videos.A nice movie to recommend to someone as the worst movie you've ever seen.  "}{"Title":"POOR EXCUSE - DOES NOT DO LEGEND JUSTICE","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, while I'll admit this film had great cinematography, it lacked one important thing what the Wendigo truly is!!! This is what dissapointed me the most. I've read several Wendigo stories. One version states that the Wendigo is a Native American spirit that calls your name, you go running to it, and when people follow your tracks they eventually find bloody footprints and then nothing. Another version is that it is a spirit or state of mind which inhabits a person and makes them act entirely unlike themself and more like a savage beast (this is also a psychologically altered state-of-mind which has been scientifically studied). Neither of these was incorporated into this mish-mash of poor story-telling comprised with a plastic deer creature which was not scary in the slightest. I bought this film based on all the positive things I'd read in Fangoria. Boy, did I make a mistake!First of all, we have a story which revolves solely around a family (mainly the dad who tries WAY too hard to look/act like Al Pacino) on vacation in the Katskills. The house in which they are staying used to be inhabited by the local backwoods redneck asshole who is still bitter that his sister sold the place. The unfortunate family accidentally hits a deer on their drive to the house. It happens that the crazy guy was hunting the deer and is now mad that the car hit his prey (hunting is idiotic anyway, and I think this film reinforces that. To kill a defenseless creature proves that the killer is making up for something they lack, which is in turn just purely pathetic). Anyway, the redneck attempts to kill the dad while he's out on a sled with his son (that annoying Dewey kid from Malcolm in the Middle who can't act at all and relies solely on his gasp! expression). Long story short the Wendigo brings the dad back to the house and then scares the crap out of the redneck guy.THIS FILM SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN TITLED WENDIGO, NOR SHOULD IT HAVE CAPITALIZED ON THE LEGEND! This was a poor, poor excuse for story-telling which involved literally no character development nor a leg to stand on when it came to the title character. In the few moments where the Wendigo is actually mentioned, it's when a mystical Native American stranger (*caugh* CLICHE! *caugh*) gives the boy a carved wooden statuette which supposedly represents the Wendigo (it's supposed to bring justice to the bad people). When we actually see the Wendigo (BAD MOVE SHOWING THE CREATURE INSTEAD OF PLAYING UPON THE FACT THAT IT IS MORE A FORCE OF NATURE THAN A PHYSICAL ENTITY!!) it is represented in two ways 1.When helping the father it is represented as a stick or bone creature with large antlers  2.When attacking the redneck it is shown as a fast-moving moose/dear creature that walks/runs upright and looks so made out of plastic it's a joke!As a lover of Native American folklore I was sorely dissapointed in this entire film. Maybe someone will come along some day and do justice to the legend of the Wendigo. Until that day, avoid this sorry excuse for entertainment. 0 stars!! "},{"Title":"Something different...and great","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very different kind of horror movie that, much like the excellent Session 9, will not appeal to the masses but will be a real treat for patient viewers who don't mind a quiet, rewarding film.  Wendigo is a very artsy little movie with a genuinely creepy feel to it. I had mixed feelings about Larry Fessenden's previous efforts.  No Telling was just a little bizarre for my taste and I thought that Habit had a lot going for it.  While we're on the subject of Habit, I thought he accomplished a lot with a tiny budget and the ambiguity was great. I also loved the main character and Fessenden's acting. My main qualm with it was a personal problem, but not being able to get past the fact that the lead female character too closely resembled my ex-girlfriend really marred my overall enjoyment of the the film (shivers).  Anyway, on with the review here  Wendigo starts off with a New York family heading for the hills in hopes of having a peaceful weekend getaway.  All chances of a peaceful weekend are shot to hell when they accidentally hit a deer with their volvo station wagon.  This upsets a trio of hunters who claim to have been tracking the deer for eighteen hours.  This event leads to a confrontation between the father, George, and redneck, Otis, which leaves George humiliated in front of his wife and young son, Miles.  This scene is pretty brilliant in its own right because it is seen mostly through the POV of Miles.  We get the same uneasy feeling that he does and it's the uncomfortable realization that Mommy and Daddy can't always protect him against everything.  It's an interesting technique and it works.  After parting with the unhappy three, George is positive that this won't be the last time he and Otis will cross each others' paths, and he's right.  The guy even uses the driveway of their vacation home as a shortcut to get to his own dump.  The first portion of the movie has the family at home, doing their thing, where we really get to know and care about them.  To say too much about them would give too much away but we learn that George is  somewhat of a workaholic and a big reason he's out here is to save his marriage and maybe spend a little quality time with the kid.  This is not the usual, run-of-the-mill, cookie-cutter family.  They're very convincing and it's easy to care about them.  I can't say I liked the kid very much, but then again, I usually don't like kids in movies.  Now with Otis, George was right.  The guy is bad news.  He's also somewhat of a Peeping-Tom and he has a gun fetish (don't all rednecks?).  The house that the family is staying in comes complete with bullet holes in the windows and it's no big mystery as to who put them there.  On a trip to town, Miles bumps into an old Indian who gives him a wooden figurine and explains to him the story of the Wendigo, a half-man, half-beast.  This bit gives the film a supernatural dimension and a certain ambiguity because nothing about the old man is fully explained and we don't know whether he is a ghost or not.  The rest of the film is mostly build-up for the riveting climax and if you've warmed up to the characters by now, you're in for a compelling ride.  Many have complained about the ending being somewhat of a let-down, but let me say that I would have been disappointed had it ended any other way.  The movie is loaded with style up the wazoo, featuring close-ups, slow-motion, fast-motion, freeze frames and even a Matrix-inspired (hate that term) shot that fit perfectly. The graniness, I thought, was well-used and there also seems to be an ongoing theme on guns (Am I the only one who noticed that?).   The music is appropriately moody and creepy and there's a great rock song over the end-credits.  If you like the movie, then the DVD belongs in your collection because it doesn't go short on the features.  Check it out. According to Fessenden, this is his third in a supposed trilogy following No Telling and Habit and it's also his best film to date.  It's a real shame that it won't be viewed by many, but one thing about him, he's not in it for the money.  He's a genuine film maker and it will be interesting to see what he does on his next outting.  10/10 "},{"Title":"Awful.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is truly awful. Why? Well, apparently, the moviemakers have no idea of what actually makes for a thrilling suspenseful movie. This is bad, because it appears that is what they have attemped to make. They also have a pretty dismal feel for even basic dialogue. Not only that, but the parents in this movie are very bad parents who cuss up a storm in front of their kid, then start to get _on_top of each other right in front of him. Poor kid. And the Wendigo looked about as scary as a man in a deer suit. Which is exactly what it was. Also, all the shots that I guess were supposed to be neato because they were from the kid's perspective were in fact just annoying, predictable, and dull. I have said it before, and I will say it again- moviemakers who try to be different _just_for_the sake_of_being_different 9 times out of 10 end up making a really bad movie. Which is exactly what happened here. I felt awful, because Looking at the back of the movie, I thought it was going to be an exciting thriller, and rented it for me, a friend, and my sister. So I ended up subjecting three people to this crap. Run away from this movie! "},{"Title":"Believe Ed....","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  we made the mistake of renting this film before checking here. Believe him. This is one of the worst films I have ever seen. It was slow, poorly acted, even more poorly directed and offered a most disappointing and confused ending. Avoid this one at all costs! "},{"Title":"Stupid and Disappointing Movie","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most disappointing movies I have ever rented. I waited weeks for the movie store to get a copy in stock. Finally, when they did and I rented it, I was shocked at how stupid this movie was. The ending is a big let down. I would recommend this movie only to people who don't believe me on how much of a let-down this one was.1 out of 10If you want to see a good, scary movie, check out Puppet Master, Skinned Alive, Sleep Away Camp, Slumber Party Massacre, and other Full Moon Pictures flicks. For other recommendations, check out the other comments I have sent in by clicking on my name above this comment section.  "},{"Title":"Intelligent horror film for intelligent viewers","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Wendigo is a smart, suspenseful film that moves at a very deliberate pace, much like horror classics of the 1930's and 1970's. This may alienate the type of horror fans who prefer their movies to be fast paced, sloppy and brutal. But, like FREAKS and NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD, Wendigo is not about a computer generated monster or another generic maniac on the loose, but about the evils within ourselves and the horrors we inflict on one another from day to day.The monster itself does not rampage through the town destroying all in its path, but lingers in the shadows, like any truly haunting specter or spirit. When it does manifest itself, we see it not as some CGI behemoth, but as exactly the type of creature that the child that is the main character would conjure up from his imagination.If you like your horror smart and well-crafted, Wendigo is for you. For everyone else, Halloween Resurrection is also on the video shelves.  "},{"Title":"when what now?","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I dragged my girlfriend to this a couple of days before Halloween thinking that it might be a good little scary movie...  I've never been so wrong in my life.A yuppie couple and their big-eared child go to the woods to find their natural selves, or some other hogwash.  They hit a dear on the way to their friends' winter home.  There's a run-in with some ca-razy hunters. Hilarity ensues.This movie sucks.No, it REALLY sucks.I'm a big fan of horror/thriller/suspense/whatever movies.  I like serious horror movies, funny horror movies, serious horror movies that turn out funny, pretty much every type of horror movie there is.  This movie has no redeeming values whatsoever.  The stupid funny scenes aren't even funny enough to warrant a watch.  The funniest thing about the whole movie was one of the other 6 people in the theater telling the lady and I to be quiet because we were picking apart the movie scene by scene in real time (bullet time?  OOOH!).  This movie is nearly unwatchable.  Avoid it like the plague. It's just not even passable.And what's up with the terrible, gratuitous sex scene?  It didn't fit at all.My girlfriend paid for the movie.  How am I ever going to make this up to her?  She'll probably never go see the terribleness that is GHOST SHIP with me now... "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time...","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was hilarious.  Problem is, it wasn't supposed to be.  The movie had a lot of potential, but moved so completely slow that it murders you before anyone is even dead.  I found myself laughing out loud at the screen when they attempt to give the spirit Wendigo a sort-of physical living-form of deer and antlers.  It was comic to the nth degree.  It reminded me of a cheap B movie on TBS. The symbolism is bad, if even discernible, capped off by a hilarious scene at the end which will leave you wondering what the heck the filmmakers were thinking.  Actually, I feel kind of bad for the filmmakers, because they had a really good idea, it was just laughably executed.  It makes you appreciate how hard it truly is to make a scary movie in this day and age of desensitized and jaded moviegoers.  "},{"Title":"Not even a chill raised!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" WENDIGO (2002) * Patricia Clarkson, Jake Weber, Erik Per Sullivan, John Speredakos, Christopher Wynkoop, Lloyd E. Oxendine.  Lame horror flick about a family from the city staying in a creepy woodland house facing retribution from a local redneck and the supposed Indian spirit haunting them all. The titular spook is laughable when it is finally on display in this sadly constructed genre tale of the supernatural.  (Dir Larry Fessenden)  "},{"Title":"A chilling thriller","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wendigo is a pretty good psychological thriller, the film has some great drama between the characters and some good creepy scenes. The acting is good, the characters act like a normal family. The Wendigo effects are good, the Deer Form reminded me a little of the Rabbit in Donnie Darko.The film sees a family going to stay at a house for a while but accidental hit a deer, a group of hunters arrives and one of the hunters named Otis starts to argue with the Dad George, after the car is lifted they drive off to the house. The Son Miles is a little shook up about the Deer but his Parents try to tell him that it's natural for things like that to happen. That night while he's in bed he starts to see weird things in bedroom, the next day they go into to town and Miles meets a man at the counter who gives him a little statue of the Wendigo, when Miles shows Kim the statue and tells her that a man at the counter gave it him the owner says the she only works there. Once returning home George takes his son sledding and while there sledding he's knocked off the board and Miles is chases by the wind, after gaining conciseness they go looking for George, they find him outside the house where he tells them he was shot, in the Hospital Kim tells the Sheriff that Otis may have shot him, the Shrieff goes to Otis's place where he's bashed over the head with a hammer, as Otis drives down the road he finds that the Wendigo is after him.Wendigo is a pretty good thriller that has some chilling moments. Check this out. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Loved Every Minute","Date":"16 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I had wanted to see this for ages, but found myself put off by all of the mixed reviews. Some absolutely detested it, some loved it, and some loved it but hated the ending. I liked all of it.The chemistry between the three leads was remarkable. It seemed to just come effortlessly. Jake Weber was the glue for the whole movie and he certainly shined. What a marvelous actor.I think that many people take issue with this film because it is a bit slow moving. It takes it's time developing the dynamic between George and his son Miles. It never seems forced, it always seems real.I still haven't figured out the ending completely, but it's nowhere near as bad as some would have you believe.Check it out and decide for yourself. Even if you hate it, you'll end up loving Jake Weber, Patricia Clarkson, and Eric Per Sullivan. "},{"Title":"A really bland film despite its Native North American theme.","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Its a real shame that this film was really poorly done despite the underlying theme behind it was that of Native First Nation nature. However apart from all the other events that occurred between the adults I think the main character to notice was the parents' son who seemed to have this interesting fascination with Natives......that one particular scene where the boy was in his bedroom looking through that book on the American West/Plains Indians......he took it out of his knapsack and started reading it in such a manner that he was really getting into it.But..... anyways......I believe the name of this film was taken in the context of the boy's fascination with Natives. It had nothing to do with all the other activity that was going on between his parents and the hunters or anything else along that line. It was the fact that he was trying to use his positive preoccupation with Indians as an outlet to escape the problems he was having while growing up. Of course its very tough being a kid and I think he just needed something to get interested in to try and escape the problems his parents were having.Well......anyway....... this is why I gave this film a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"So bad, it's haunted me ever since.","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My friends and I rented this movie as we were looking for a horror film to either laugh at or be impressed by.  With this film, we couldn't do either since it was so dull. The cover is a bit misleading, and the movie told no story whatsoever.  There's a lot of irrelevant, boring dialogue and even when it sticks to the plot, nothing enhances it or helps it grow. There isn't enough suspense for it to be considered a horror film.  The basic story follows a family vacationing in the wintry mountains who bump into irate hunter Otis.  After the family gets settled, the little boy, Miles, has strange visions and meets a mysterious Native American.  This is where you learn the conflicting information about the Wendigo.  Is it good, is it bad? What does it want? You'll never know.  Maybe this is to help you make your own opinion, but the movie doesn't even give you enough criteria to base one on! If you do decide to rent this (they should be paying you to rent it), and feel gypped by the movie, you may try looking at the director's interview to learn more about the Wendigo.  Well, you'll be disappointed there too.  Toothless Larry Fessenden stands in front of a graffiti wall on a city street to share all his knowledge which turns out to be very little.  He'll speak of hearing his teacher tell the story of the dreaded Wendigo when he was in third grade, and that it haunted him ever since.  He doesn't divulge the actual story because he conveniently forgets.  Nice supporting back story there, buddy.  You can't even remember what inspired you to make this stupid movie? The only, ONLY good thing about this movie was the Wendigo itself. They put in a lot of effort and detail to make the Wendigo lifelike.  However, you only get to see that in the 'making of' DVD extra.  In the actual movie, the lighting is dark or the shots are too quick for you to appreciate it.  Obviously, lighting issues are for atmosphere but it didn't seem to make sense to give that much full body detail to the creature if we weren't gonna see all of it. My advice is to skip over this one unless you enjoy being confused or laughing at the beginning of the Searching for the Wendigo extra. "},{"Title":"Original, disturbing and intriguing, Wendi delivers.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One of the most truly affecting horror movies of recent years, this little, relatively unknown, Canadian film never dissappoints. There is an atmosphere of 'Fargo' and 'Deliverence' about it- which can only be a good thing- and the underlying point; that of the bizarre unpredictbility and persistence of life and myth, is expertly explored.I really can't think of a single bad thing to say about this film. Okay, some may find it a little slow and the effects work a little, I don't know- what's the word?- unconvincing? But as with all the best movies of this type, it's not that you are fooled into believing what you see, but the sheer audacity of the image that impresses. The Wendigo, when seen, is disturbing precisely because it couldn't possibly exist, and yet does, not because it's the greatest monster costume ever built. Thanks to Larry Fessenden for the best ninety minutes or so I've enjoyed for a long, long while. Find it and watch it. Now. "},{"Title":"Interesting philosophical chiller.","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" George and Kim are traveling with their young son Miles to a remote cabin in upstate New York when their car hits a deer and swerves into a ditch.But what seems to be a mere occurrence of misfortune marks the beginning of a terrifying journey,where myth becomes reality and a flesh-eating spirit,half animal and half man Wendigo,haunts a small town...Wendigo by Larry Fessenden is a thought-provoking horror film that often tenderfoot's into a somber family drama.The acting is great,the characters are well-developed and there are some bone-chilling moments.The subtle glimpses of Wendigo are handled effectively and it's never clear what is real and what is imagined,or even if the story is taking place entirely in Miles' head.Overall,Wendigo is my first contact with Larry Fessenden's work and surely won't be the last.Give this film a chance,if you don't mind watching something unconventional.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Intelligent & thought provoking","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is more about how children make sense of the world around them, and how they (and we) use myth to make sense of it all.  I think it's been misperceived, everyone going in expecting a stalkfest won't enjoy it but if you want a deeper story, it's here.......  "},{"Title":"Brainy, thoughtul horror/drama","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you want Scream or anything like the big-studio horror product that we get forced on us these days don't bother. This well-written film kept me up thinking about all it had to say. Importance of myth in our lives to make it make sense, how children interpret the world (and the violence in it), our ransacking of the environment and ignorance of its history and legends.. all here, but not flatly on the surface. You could technically call it a monster movie even though the Wendigo does not take physical form until the end, and then it's even up to you and your beliefs as to what's happening with the legendary spirit/beast. Some standard thriller elements for those looking just for the basics and the film never bores, though in fact the less you see of the creature, the better. Fessenden successfully continues George Romero's tradition of using the genre as parable and as a discussion forum while still keeping us creeped out. "},{"Title":"Horror, not Splatter...","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A haunting piece that the discerning horror film fan will fall upon with gratitude. Keep your Freddys and your Jasons -- this film is in the same company as The Haunting (the original). Lyrical and truthful, it stays with you long into the night, much like those terrifying CBS Radio Mystery Theatre shows. A smart rent. "},{"Title":"An unusual film that doesn't successfully work as a horror picture, thriller or family drama","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wendigo sees successful New York couple Kim and George McClaren (Patricia Clarkson and Jake Weber) moving out to the desolate country with their son Miles (Erik Per Sullivan) and crossing paths with the unusual and intimidating locals, in particular a man who menaces the family from the shadows and spies on the couple during sex. At the same time, Miles encounters a mysterious shaman who teaches him about a mythical monster known as a Wendigo.Despite the gorgeous visuals and sinister score, it's hard to grasp what kind of film Wendigo is trying to be. There's an obvious sense of miscommunication in the family themselves, from George and Miles' fractured relationship to therapist Kim's strange treatment of her patients, while the friction between the family and the redneck locals produces some unease, but a lot of this goes nowhere. Fessenden creates some quiet tension through the ongoing appearance of bullets which appear to have been shot through the walls of the McClaren's new home, but subtle scares (which fit a movie with such a low budget) are foolishly replaced during the last twenty minutes by a monster that looks like it was made in a high school shop class.While the film is easy to follow at the start, the final moments are a sea of vagueness and unanswered questions. Some viewers may enjoy the opportunity to come up with their own theories about the film, but presumably many will be disappointed. Wendigo looks great and it's unquestionably well acted (in particular by Clarkson, Weber and John Speredakos), but in the end it's an empty, unfocused film.Rating C "},{"Title":"Disappointing, dull and almost unwatchable","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wendigo is a really lackluster creature features.**SPOILERS**Traveling to Alaska, family Kim, (Patricia Clarkson) George, (Jake Weber) and Miles, (Erik Per Sullivan) manage to get into a little car trouble along the way. Accepting help from local hunter Otis, (John Speredakos) they manage to arrive at their house and settle in for a vacation. After hearing of a native spirit called the Wendigo, Miles begins obsessing about it and it's origins, to the point of showing no interest in anything else around. As this concerns them to the point of worry, a series of strange events plague the family and they soon grow to believe his stories about the Wendigo spirit. As they race to save themselves, they begin to wonder if the spirit of the Wendigo is really alive and after them.The Good News There wasn't a whole lot here that really impressed. At times, this did have some pretty nifty scenes. The conclusion of the sledding scene, where a bank of fog rolling over the snow picking up loose particles moving deeper into the forest, away from the scene of the accident that has a really creepy, supernatural vibe to it. This is easily the best scene in the film. It also manages to successfully evoke a feeling of an unseen presence here, with it lurking but never seen watching. The forest location is generally given a foreboding, haunting look and it generates a few mildly decent shivers of suspense due to the feeling of the unknown captured. The other plus in this one is the fancy camera-work. It's a distraction to be sure, but it's still something to be commended, as it does look pretty fancy at times with some good shots, but that's about it.The Bad News This here wasn't all that bad but did have some problems. One of the big problems is the film's psychological approach. This makes it seem like long periods of time without anything going on, especially the beginning. There's a long period built up off the family moving in and settling to their surroundings. While it's not the greatest of events, this does slow down the film somewhat to get all these scenes in. It's supposed to be a slice of the mundane, but even in the most boring of lives, something of interest happens. The opposite happens here. There's nothing going on for the first two-thirds of the film, beyond setting up the legend of the creature. This is just painful to sit through, as it features nothing to keep the most squeamish of viewers interested, which is a fatal flaw of the film. Nothing interesting happens during most of the film, and what little action happens at the end isn't even that good anyway. There's a grand total of two attacks in the film, and one doesn't result in a fatal and the second one is simply to finish the job of the first one. That's hardly acceptable for a creature feature of any type. This is weakened even more by the sheer incomprehensible story. Nothing is offered to suggest it's real or a dream, and this is applied to every single aspect. Nothing is given as to whether the creature is real or made up, where it comes from, or what the purpose of the film is about. Everything is left open-ended and that's a real flaw. The camera-work is the film's other big flaw. While it can produce some nice scenes, just about all the time is spent on it doing nothing other than aggravating. At times, it's too fancy for it's own good, being nothing more than fanciness for the sake of hiding nothing. It's supposed to be a meaningful shot, but instead the camera tricks are used to show that it's simply nothing. These reasons are all part of it's really lackluster fare.The Final Verdict This is one of the most boring, underwhelming films ever that has only small, saving grace points going for it. There's really only a few out there that would enjoy this, so unless you enjoy a more artistic approach, then skip this one easily.Rated R Graphic Language, Graphic Violence, a sex scene and mild animal violence "}{"Title":"McFarlane needs to make an action figure of Wendigo.","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I liked this one. It wasn't perfect by any means...far from it. It was however original and creepy.Most of the newer horror movies suck big time and the people making them suck even more. Larry Fessenden both wrote and directed this and I think he is awesome because he did a great job.The writing was unique and although I saw a likeness of many other films in the story, I have to say I've never seen a creature quite like that before. I often wondered if Wendigo was searching for the bad guy or was the little boy Miles somehow using the statue and sending the creature after the bad guy. Maybe thats obvious but I don't get it, either way its fun not knowing in this case.Fessenden is one hell of a director. The scenery and cinematography was amazing and when nothing was going on he was giving you something to see. Many times it's a waste of time and pisses me off when directors get all artsy and take away from the story (watch Oliver Stone movies) but Larry's shots add so much to it.The acting was great, all of the actors played their part well, and I have always loved little Erik Sullivan because MALCOLM IN THE MIDDLE is one of my favorite shows.My only problem with this movie was it was a bit slow. It didn't really start getting good until the last 30 minutes of it. There seems to be a great back story here with Otis and his childhood in that house and its one prequel I'd like to see. I still recommend this one to any horror fan.I have to end by saying I wish Todd McFarlane would make an action figure of the creature. He doesn't have to add it to M.Maniacs just pop it in any where. If he can do the tooth fairy and characters from the god-awful Texas Chainsaw remake then why not this. "},{"Title":"I saw the Wendigo&#133;","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It was a cold winter night and I was driving home slowly because of the snow-covered roads. Suddenly, as I peered through the falling flakes, there it was, right in front of me. I ended up with nearly a thousand dollars damage to the front of my truck&#133;dang wendigos! I liked Wendigo but it's not really for everyone. It's a bit slow moving in parts and I'm sure some would just find it dull. Also, it's easy to tell the budget was limited during some of the creature's scenes. Still, I enjoyed it. I had read several short stories about this legend in my younger years and it was pretty cool to see it brought to film in a serious, even sometimes creepy, manner (as opposed to Troma's very silly Frostbiter). This film was able to give me a feeling that this forest spirit could possibly exist for real, at least more so than similar films. The story was not always focused on the Wendigo and when it was, it was mostly by way of the young boy. The way this was handled is what gave this movie its air of believability, as if we are KNOWING it through the child's eyes, the eyes we all used to have. Anyway, the acting was, for the most part, good and the direction low-key yet stylish. For me, Wendigo captured the imagination that I had as a child&#133;that there was something out there but really only I knew or at least, thought, about it. Life still went on as normal, of course, but from time to time, in the background, those feelings came to me, just like in the movie.Larry Fessenden's Habit is also worth a watch. "},{"Title":"I was mislead","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you want to know the real story of the Wendigo, I suggest you pick up a copy of Algernon Blackwell's original story. This movie was not only bad but had nothing to do with the book.I loved the book when I read it as a kid (In Campfire Chillers by E.M. Freeman)and was so excited to see a movie based on it come out. I was so disappointed when I finally saw it. Another thing is that there were too many PC (Politically Correct) undertones throughout the movie that had no place in the film. When the book was written PC didn't even exist.My suggestion is don't waste your time or money!! If you see it on the video store shelf LEAVE IT THERE. "},{"Title":"wind bag blows","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" for all the subtle charms this student film may contain, was anyone else bored to death waiting WENDINGO to show his paper macho face??the anti-climax pretty much ruined any sort of momentum we had speed actioned to develop.don't get me wrong, i'm all into exploring America's dark underbelly, but this is a turd-a-flamb that gets a nod to watchable only for the fact that p.clarkson looks hot taking it.sadly, from a guy from wings.the best 2 minutes the film has to offer.if you felt like ripping off DELIVERANCE, you could do better. "},{"Title":"Ummm, Nah.....","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i was disappointed. the film was a bit predictable and did not live up to the hype plastered all over the box. Having said that, the characters were well developed, the windego myth was used in a unique premise and the house was pretty spooky but it just missed for me. I kept waiting for that big AHHHHH or BOO! But it never came.Furthermore the movie was plagued with poor filming of poor special effects. Thus showing to much of a bad thing and not using atmosphere and viewer imagination to create the horror and suspense. Try movies like Session 9 or the Cube if your looking for a low-budget but well conceived horror movie. "},{"Title":"It absolutely sucked!!!","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" As I was watching this movie I was thinking,OK it'll get good any moment...I was wrong. The real best part of this movie was when it was over. A complete waste of 92 minutes. All seriousness aside the best part was when the Wendigo finally showed up which was at the end and you couldn't really even see him that good. And the tail end was really kind of dumb as well. There was too many sections in the movie where you thought something was going to happen but was a let down. The worse part is there was more talk of the Wendigo then there was Wendigo. For the creature to be so bad,you definitely couldn't tell it by this movie. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" if my grandma did films they would probably do much better figure than this one... incredible bad... the main characters (the mom, the dad and son) are OK. Specially the mother she's a nice actress and the kid also proves to be a nice one specially on the scenes where he is supposed to be scary. But does the the director know the meaning of the words Plot Point, Triller and Good Script. the script hasn't any evolving atmosphere to become a suspense thing. If you like being chased by trees you can probably enjoy it, otherwise just stay at home and sleep. oh... actually there was something funny the movie's from 2001 but we couldn't realize it since the image is so bad (like on mini-dv) and the cars are so old (like 70 and 80's). "},{"Title":"ummm....no.","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" look y'all- put down your needles and spoons, time to lay off the smack. This movie was as good as a fifty cent whore. And I'd feel less diseased the morning after if i went with shanghi jenny. The little bear suit with a deer head sewn on was a nice touch though- NOT. The so-called monster? Fog and a brief (if rather nicely done) stick figure. And the aforementioned bear-suit-con-deer-head. All I can say is, good acting, and the one cgi shot in the movie was good, but if you want anything approaching scary or, I dunno, logical (whoa! perhaps I go too far...) this movie is NOT it. Go with El Chupacabra- it is, sad to say, far better. "},{"Title":"What a load...........","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" of garbage!!This was a free rental from blockbuster that I wish I had used on something different. heck... I want my time in life spent watching this nonsense.No redeeming value whatsoever... I viewed it based on the box summary and cause Patricia Clarkson was in it. What a stinker. Indie or not, this was trash.The Wendigo looked like it was either claymation, Rudolph on a bad day, or one gigantic puppet. IT DID NOTHING!! NOTHING, I TELL YA!!The acting was fine... no problems there... but there were some scenes that went on entirely too long... conversations that took place that neither added to nor made sense in the story line... the sub-plot being that the family needed to bond was OK, but the attempts to plump it up by having the wife and hubby in conversations with folks form the city were pitiful.nonsense... utter trash.... skip this one if you know what's good for you! "},{"Title":"This movie SUCKED! Big fat ZERO out of 10 stars!","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Anyone who actually had the ability to sit through this movie and walk away feeling like it was a good film does not appreciate quality movies. This movie was an insult to watch, the direction was high school film class quality as well as the cinematography. The Blair Witch Project had better cinematography and I hate that move with a passion! The storyline had the potential to be a very intense very good movie but it fell flat from the first 10 minutes through the rest of the movie. Someone mentioned that this film was about a child's imagination, okay thats all good and fine. But they still could have done better things with this script than what they did. I mean come on, the Indian in the store. Did the kid look at the little idol and suddenly imagine the Indian and the entire story about an Indian spirit called Wendigo? Which they mention to the store employee and she casually says there is no one but me that works here, so you think okay creepy ghost scenario, but then she just barters for the amount on the idol and we forget about the little kid seeing this guy. That was so lame it goes beyond pathetic. The ending left you wondering not only what happened to Otis in the hospital but also with the feeling of OMG!!! Why the hell did I just waste my time watching this!! This is a move that I recommend NOT to watch, there are definitely better quality films out there that won't insult your intelligence! Thank god I never had to pay to see this movie, I would have demanded my money back! For those that were easily entertained by this movie.... it's very sad that you lowered your standards to this level of film making to actually say that it was a good movie. "}{"Title":"Very good chills - storyline was weak","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think this film deserves all the bad reviews it has gotten on this site. It isn't the best movie, but it does have some really scary moments. The director is very talented at filming scary movies. His camera work and lighting techniques added a lot of scares to this film. The acting was decent, especially from the little boy. The criticisms I have have already been discussed on this site. The storyline was promising at first but then fell flat and never delivered. This made the film dull at points. And what was with the lame ending?? It was a huh?? ending. The wendigo itself could of been scarier-looking when it was finally fleshed out, but this was a pretty low-budget film. The film seemed more like a made-for-cable film rather than for the theater.But overall I would recommend this film to fellow scary movie fans, the chills make it worthwhile. Roger Ebert gave a great review summing up all the strenghts and weaknessed. I rate this movie 6/10. "},{"Title":"A sad and pathetic attempt at horror.","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Except for a select few scenes that almost had potential this movie was one of the most agonizing things that I have ever sat through.  The synopsis of the film was dull, the actors had no passion, and the scenery of the film was just bland.  I would give this film a 0/10, but I did almost smirk at one of the comments made very early in the film, so I give it a 2/10 rating. I can't believe that this film has been compared to great classics like The Shining, or Deliverance; what were these users watching?  They must've been on some kind of mnd-altering substance to think that this film has even a hint of the brilliance that those classics had.  If you want real classic horror go rent Rob Zombies House of !000 corpses. "},{"Title":"It was okay, but I don't think I would ever want to see it again.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There really is not much horror in this movie and for the most part it is more drama than anything else.  A bit of a drama with some supernatural elements added in.  I wanted to see a horror so maybe I am being harder on the movie than I normally would.  The movie does make you wonder what angle it is going to use and it keeps you guessing throughout.  Is the movie going to turn into a horror about some strange monster?  Is the movie going the Deliverance rout?  Or is this movie sort of a Legend of Boggy Creek type movie?  Turns out it is a little of this and a little of that.  It makes for rather good viewing the first time, but once you have seen it there is no reason to see it again.  For the first part of the movie it is mainly like watching your average family vacation gone badly as the vacationers have a run in with a surly hunter.  Then they through in some weird dream sequences for the kid and the mysterious showing us photos of this and that.  In the end it starts to become fairly predictable and a bit to sad for my tastes...All that is left in the end is a shot of a truck being towed, still not sure what the significance of that was.  Worth one look, but that is enough. "},{"Title":"On a Native American myth","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed with Larry Fessenden's third movie, after his remarkable Habit. He works here on a myth of native Americans (which, if I remember well, was mentioned in Ravenous), that supposedly takes many forms. We only see a couple the first one is really impressive, a sculpture of sorts made with deer horns. When it turns into a conventional Hollywood monster, it's a pity. Although Fessenden builds the tension slowly (it made me wonder if I was watching an anthropological movie) as the movie turns into a tale of revenge, this is an interesting story gone awry. "},{"Title":"Would have been better if...","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Thia movie was just fine as a Deliverance type movie...the actors..Especially the actor playing otis gave me the same chilling feelings watching his performance as i felt when i was a child watching the deathwish films..they used to make me think, What would happen if a guy like that was after my father? it used to scare me much more then the horror films i loved so much, why..because it was a situation that was realistic, something that very well could happen, And even the minor players in the movie were awesome, the sheriff as he arrived at otis house to talk with him, talking bout Them City Folk that come here. Actually at the time i write this review im only 3/4 the way through the movie, so perhaps the Wendigo will factor out better in the end...but for the first 3/4 of the film, it is just a distraction, and i felt the need to compliment the film on its merits after reading the bashing it received here, In closing Kudos to all the actors, the mother, the father, and even the child actor<who was a little dramatic and no child prodigy, but was believable>..All in all..i would have just changed the title of the film, and removed all clips of the WENDIGO, and had me a GOOD OLE TIME wit them THAR COUNTRY BOYS!! "},{"Title":"Not a horror film but not THAT bad","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A family (mother-Patricia Clarkson, father-Jake Weber, son-Erik Per Sullivan) go out for a family get together in some remote house in the middle of winter. They accidentally hit a deer while driving there. This angers some of the locals--especially Otis (John Speredakos) and things slowly (VERY slowly) go wrong.I was expecting the worst when I started watching this. The bulk of the reviews for this, on this site, are extremely negative. Well...I disagree. First off it's NOT a horror film. The horror doesn't even begin until the closing 30 minutes. It plays more like a family drama with horror elements thrown in. On that level, it's pretty damn good.First--the bad stuff The pace is WAY too slow; Jake Weber is a horrible actor; WAY too many false dream sequence scares; the wendigo barely figures into the film and the clear view we get of the wendigo at the end is laughable.The good stuff Pretty good dramatic script; Clarkson is excellent as the mother; some great direction with eerie sound effects which are a little scary; a pretty explicit hot sex sequence between Clarkson and Weber (which actually is necessary for the integrity of the plot!); pretty good acting by Sullivan (only 10 at the time!) and Speredakos and a completely unexpected tragic ending.I think many people are annoyed with this film because it's being pushed as a horror film--which it isn't. So, if you can ignore that, I think you might like it. I'm giving it a 7. "},{"Title":"Eh...","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With a new focus on the intelligent horror film (Session 9, May), I was excited to see this,  especially after reading Ebert's review.  All in all, this is pretty disappointing.  I wasn't  disappointed by the lack of Wendigo action (or the ridiculous appearance of the  monster itself), as many user comments stated.  I just thought the film didn't work.  The  editing is terrible, and I found myself chuckling at the way the indian's Wendigo story  was repeated and repeated and repeated to the point of comedy.  Speaking of the old  indian man... come on, the disappearing old shopkeeper?  Any plot device that's been  parodied on The Simpsons is probably not worth revisiting.  The true avenging spirit of  the woods is not the Wendigo, it is Larry Fessenden's editing.  Scenes were broken up so  many times by abrupt, ramped footage of trees or the sky or other absolutely random  banalities that one viewer joked that the Wendigo got the editor!.   And as for the title  creature itself, all in all very lame.  Why didin't this work?  The actual wendigo legend  (not actually used in this film) is quite scary, and there are so many ways to make a  fascinating film about any of them.   Lame.   Apparently Fessenden's first film is good,  and I will check it out, but this movie was pretty awful.  Pretentious.  Check out May if  you want to see a smart, original, wholely atmospheric horror film.  Or Session 9.  Hell,  rent The House on Haunted Hill, which is awful... but better than this. "},{"Title":"Stay away!","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I remember back when I was little when I was away at camp and we would campout under the stars. There was always someone there that would have a good story to tell that involved the woods that surrounded us and they would always creep me out. Well, when I found Wendigo at the library, I checked it out hoping to be one of those films that had a supernatural being haunting people in the woods much like the stories that were told at camp. Well, much to my dismay, I was so far from the truth. Wendigo is really bad. The story starts of when a family of three is driving to their winter cabin, which looks like your normal suburban home and nothing like a cabin in the woods, and they run into a deer. Well, it seems the local rednecks were actually hunting this particular deer and are pretty upset at our city folk. The movie spends far too much time following the families everyday activities instead of getting to the point of the film. It wasn't until about the last 15 minutes that we actually have some action involving the wendigo. My suggestion is that you stay very far away this film. It will leave you wanting your hour and a half back.  "},{"Title":"story within stories","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Living in the general area that this movie takes place, and filmed at, I was immediately drawn into the story. The movie was well paced and gives a chill like that of being alone in the woods listening to a silence that isn't silent. Wendigo's have been a part of our folklore for as many years as there has been eyes to form their shape and words to express imaginative, descriptive from the viewer's mind's eye into the mind's eye of another. It was good to see a movie dedicated to the art of visual story-telling. I loved the sequences where the cinematography is used to stir the emotions and become a silent character as easy to hear as if spoken. Well Done "},{"Title":"When is right!","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen many horror shows over the years, like Nightstalker, that dealt with the Wendigo legend, so I was looking forward to an angry spirit causing mayhem to add flavor to the Halloween season. Man was I mistaken. The whole movie creates this sense of events about to happen that will be scary and creepy, but then delivers a very simplistic tale of revenge and murder over the loss of some property. Ve-ery scary - not! This movie has a lot in common with Cold Creek Manor, another total loser.It's getting harder and harder to believe anything Hollywood puts forward about scary movies, since they rarely come through with anything original and spooky anymore. What idiots pay for such a bogus movie to be made? Go back to the drawing board fellas, and do something useful with those millions of greenbacks you have to throw around. "}{"Title":"The worst film ever made.","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie on DVD just a few weeks ago. I thought I had seen it all. This movie doesn't even qualify as a B - Movie. It's more like G- movie for GARBAGE! This makes all the Ed Wood's movies look like Oscar winners.The two best parts of this movie (a phrase I will use lightly here) were when the Wendigo was tip-toeing through the woods, looking like he's singing Tiptoe Through the Tulips to himself, chasing a truck on the road parallel to him, doing at least 80 miles an hour. The second one was in the Features section, where they show how they made the mechanism used for Wendigo's legs.That's it.Don't rent this. Don't buy it. Don't even take it for free. One final advise; if you have seen it, don't admit it.This is a goof's nightmare, no one would want to know the trivia behind it, and a waste of good film.  "},{"Title":"Depicts the Horrors of Childhood Imagination","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is going to get a lot of flack from the horror-renting Blockbuster Video crowd, but despite what these cheap-thrill people will say, this movie is well-made and unnerving.  In the comments here, Wendigo has been compared to many films, but I think the movie it would most resemble is Donnie Darko.  There's a telling juxtaposition between the real horrors of life and the horrors of imagination, and I think the movie depicts how imagination tries to cope with these real-life horrors.  No, there's no CGI creatures, but if you return to a childhood mind when you stared out at the dark from under your covers, you'll remember that the monsters in this movie are just like those you imagined.Great acting and real-life characters add to the North-woods gothic setting and disturbing thematic elements to make this movie a compelling and frightening film.Mild Spoilers  One of the elements I liked about this film is that when the credits role, the monster is still ambiguous.  It has taken several forms but been seen by few, and the minds of those who see the Wendigo are always questionable.  The power of this movie is in the suggestion, and thankfully, that suggestion has not been replaced by the end of the film with evidence indisputable.  It allows the imagination to revert and reflect.  I think that some people find the power of suggestion to end a film very unsatisfying (as these comments show), but I believe it makes the ending all the more powerful. "},{"Title":"Wendigo home","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The saddest thing about this whole movie is, the director actually has potential. The camera work is very nice and refreshing and there are a few creepy moments. However this movie could have and should have been much better. The acting in whole was above average..but the deer monster was flat out stupid and very unscary. My sister looks scarier when she wakes up in the morning. Come on mr. director, you can do much better than this. Don't waste the actors abilities or the publics time and money. Oh..and throw away that deer costume....hahahahaha  "},{"Title":"Deal with it","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this film had some strong elements in it, but overall I just can not be 100% satisfied. Just because this film is just one of the million monster-films. But it was fun to watch, though. The specialities of this film kept in the mood. During the whole movie it is just nog clear if this (stupid) monsterstory is real and all in the boys mind. But still it would bee a better movie if the answer wasn't given at the end of the film. Luckily the answer did not lead to a monster-slashing film where suddenly SOMEONE gets an idea about how to kill the monster. It's just an answer and that's that...and we (the watchers) have to deal with it. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I suppose if you like endless dialogue that doesn't forward the story and flashy camera effects like the scene transitions in the television show _Angel_, you'll enjoy the film.  Me?  All I wanted was a nice, tight little story, and it wasn't there.  The pacing was practically backward, plot points were buried under a sea of unneeded dialogue, and there was absolutely no sense of dread, or tension, or ANYTHING.Is it the redneck?  Is it the Wendigo?  No, it's a cameraman on speed.  That's not scary.  It doesn't generate a single note of tension or atmosphere unless you're scared by MTV.  Like those reviewers before me, I too noticed that by the end the movie invokes derisive laughter from the audience.Terrible film.  "},{"Title":"The Shining meets Deliverance in the wake of Blair Witch.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A thirty-something couple embark on a trip to the country for a winter vacation with their young son, Miles.  Nearly at their destination, they hit a large buck on the road, which brings them the unwanted attention of a creepy backwoods hunter.  The incident also awakens the spirit of a Native American myth long overdue for movie-monster treatment, the Wendigo.  As things get weirder and weirder, Miles' parents attempt to help him make sense of things, but in fact Miles is the only person privileged to the Wendigo's full mystery.Director Larry Fessenden has fashioned an entertaining, if not fully polished, film.  His characters and plot are adequate if rarely surprising, and he relies largely on innovative camera work to draw his audience in, a strategy that works more often than not.  Fessenden uses time-lapse photography and well choreographed sequences of woodland still shots to bring the forest to life around his characters  He also demonstrates remarkable restraint in relying on simple suggestion and the expressive winter landscape to animate his Wendigo.  If Fessenden's themes are a little too obvious to be convincing, and if he falls back on a few cliches along the way, the smart visuals at least make Wendigo a frequently engaging film. "},{"Title":"Low-Budget Classic","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Now this is what I'm talking about. Finally, a low-budget horror outing that uses its limitations to its advantage. WENDIGO, while occasionally flawed, is a triumph of the imagination. Granted, it leans heavy on EVIL DEAD style camera moves for its moodiness, but it's still a damn sight better than 99% of direct to video dross.The story is pretty simple a family takes a vacation at a remote cabin and are menaced by one particularly unhinged hunter. But director Larry Fessenden really knows how to build suspense and add layers of unsettling creepiness through the use of the mythical Wendigo. Is it real? Is it all in the boy's imagination? Is it an externalization of the child's emotional state? Some have quibbled that the film is unsatisfying because it's left to you to decide. Don't be put off by such petty nonsense. A film that makes you think is not one to avoid. It's one to rejoice in. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is excellent. I found it very interesting. I thought the Wendigo legend was pretty cool. The acting was also great, as well as the costumes, production, photography, directing and script. A very happy family, on vacation gets stranded in the middle of nowhere after they hit a deer. A huntsman then appears and is very angry and outraged over the fact that one of the deer's antler's is broken. He then starts to stalk the family and weird things start to happen to them. See this movie. It's worth it. Kudos to the cast, crew and filmmakers. Two Thumbs Way Up! "},{"Title":"This supernatural thriller is nicely filmed but flawed in any respect.","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A family of three-Kim (Patricia Clarkson), George (Jake Weber) and Miles (Erik Per Sullivan) drive to the Catskills to spend a weekend away. When they accidentally hit a deer and are run off the road. They meet an angry deer hunter (John Speredakos), who stalks the family. The family experiences a mere occurrence of misfortune marks the start of a terrifying journey. Miles meets mysterious strange in the store, who gives him a figure myth titled Wendigo is a evil entity, half phantom, half beast, who preys on human begins and it is a flesh eating spirit. When George gets hurt, what seems to be an accident. Since the family accidentally hit the deer sets off a disturbing chain of events.Written and Directed by Larry Fessenden (Habit, The Last Winter, No Telling) made an eerie, well made, extremely tense, supernatural thriller. This film has engaging visuals but the only delivers half of the original premise of the directorFessenden intended. Good performances by the cast helps ease several flaws. The film plays like The Shining meet Deliverance with a bit of The Blair Witch Project on the side. This film is worth a look. DirectorFessenden also edited the film. (*** /*****). "},{"Title":"There's too much praise","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Looking through the first page of comments, it hurts to think people perceive something great in this movie. As far as I'm concerned, it is a shallow attempt at a spiritual and thought-provoking horror film. The moral of the ending is one of the most sophomoric finishes I've seen in any story.I can deal with it not necessarily being a horror film. But the reliance a ridiculous monster probably hurt its image more than anything. Even with a small budget, a wendigo can be a much more imaginative creation than that of the movie.The movie as a whole seems nothing more than the director's staring into the pond. Of course it's all subjective, but in terms of an entertaining story and powerful message, Wendigo is seriously lacking. Be sure to read each comment with a grain of salt. Even this one. "}{"Title":"Terribly Horrible","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Why the F*** is wicker man scary? This movie is bad in the 'it's so bad it's not even funny' so bad. Worst movie I've seen in a few years next to the bush presidency. Watch Leprachaun 4 In Space if you want some serious laughs and horror. I couldn't figure out what they were really trying to do here, but when they finally revealed the Wendigo, it looked like they ran out of money and had to piece together some popsicle sticks to make a scary movie. And what's what's her name doing in this picture, didn't she do some movies with Clint Eastwood & S***. For some reason, when I discuss monumentally bad movies, this one always comes to mind first. I guess I haven't seen or sat through any really bad movies in awhile, except maybe The Karate Kid. 1/10 "},{"Title":"WWWWWendigo.... WWWWWWWaste of time...","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Well, I am feeling much more kindly toward this film than I was last night, and reading on, you'll be able to gather how bad that was.This is one of those films that, while watching, you begin to feel your life ebbing away. I will never get those 90 minutes back, but on the bright side, it was only 90 minutes.I was interested in seeing this film for the subject, and the fact that it got decent reviews (Sympathy reviews, it now seems) and was playing at Film Forum in NYC (and WHO the filmmaker is related to at that place to get them to show this, I do not know...). I was very willing to overlook, and even liked, that this film seems to have been made of a budget of $4.75, but it's other massive flaws overwhelm even those considerations.The writing is poor. The main characters are cookie-cutter anxious New Yorkers who run into a buck on their way to a rented house in the mountains. Three standard-issue redneck hunters appear.Now, any normal person, even most New Yorker's I know, would say Hey, can you help me push my car back onto the road? and that would be that. But no, not here, and the father freaks out, won't let the creepy' rednecks near his car, etc. etc., just to generate some conflict. The New Yorker's call a tow truck, although obviously even the 8-year-old could push the car the 1 foot it needs to go to get back on the road. So we spend what seems like a half hour in this entirely bogus situation, just to get the story going. The rest of the story is much like this... people acting in ridiculous and overblown ways just to force the plot along. Every character is an utterly overblown caricature, and the actors try their best, but ultimately can't overcome the writing.The film is less frightening than a used band-aid. The innovative editing techniques amount to a bunch of flashed images from story books with loud sounds. Which may have been innovative (or scary) in centuries past, but.... Interestingly, there are more than one sequence of a lot of quick shots of Native Americans with creepy music, as though Native Americans in themselves are enough to inspire terror, giving the film a carelessly racist cast.The scariest thing was the lighting--the realistic lighting rather than typical film lighting went a long way toward establishing authenticity and a claustrophobic feel.At one point there is an entirely pointless Matrix-like spin-round-a-still-picture shot. At that point I thought Good lord, I hope they didn't blow their whole budget on that one shot! In retrospect, the subtext behind the story is vaguely interesting, but really not that interesting. If you are interested in the mythology, you should read an excellent, and very scary story, The Wendigo, by Algernon Blackwood. It will take you less time than watching this movie, and provide you much more entertainment.--- Check out website devoted to bad and cheesy movies www.cinemademerde.com "},{"Title":"Alvin Schwartz's short story was easily better","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I first learned of the Wendigo many years ago in one of Alvin Schwartz's Scary Stories books according to that story, the Wendigo - after calling your name in the wind - drags you along, and then pulls you up into the sky and pulverizes you. While it sounds like a pretty bizarre notion, Schwartz's story turned it into a fairly coherent idea.The movie Wendigo doesn't. It basically consists of every horror flick clich family moves to new house and strange things start happening, anyone who harms them is asking for it, and everyone had better listen to the old Indian guy. I've seen this stuff so many times that I no longer bother to count.Anyway, avoid it. Patricia Clarkson and Erik Per Sullivan (Dewey on Malcolm in the Middle) have done far better than this. "},{"Title":"Brainy, thoughtul horror/drama","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" If you want Scream or anything like the big-studio horror product that we get forced on us these days don't bother. This well-written film kept me up thinking about all it had to say. Importance of myth in our lives to make it make sense, how children interpret the world (and the violence in it), our ransacking of the environment and ignorance of its history and legends.. all here, but not flatly on the surface. You could technically call it a monster movie even though the Wendigo does not take physical form until the end, and then it's even up to you and your beliefs as to what's happening with the legendary spirit/beast. Some standard thriller elements for those looking just for the basics and the film never bores, though in fact the less you see of the creature, the better. Fessenden successfully continues George Romero's tradition of using the genre as parable and as a discussion forum while still keeping us creeped out. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the other reviews","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this film. In fact the credits are still rolling.  I watched it against all the reviews here because I thought we might as well give it a go.That film was brilliant.  The people here were obviously hoping some big silly Freddy type figure was going to turn up and spoon feed the plot to them because they're too dumb to pick up on subtlety.  What I really loved about it was that it wasn't even pretentious.Brilliantly directed and really lovely scripting.  Not overplayed with excessive dialogue.  it let you come to your own conclusions.The film is about a Wendigo, an ancient spirit that can shape shift. No it's not a big scary figure that's going to have a showdown with the good guy at the end because as the man tells us nothing between the sky and the earth is evil (or words to that effect).  Shit happens essentially.You can see this film in two ways either if you really want to make it a horror film the Wendigo screws around with some people.  Or you can see it how I think it's meant to be. Stuff happens in the world and people have to find ways of understanding it.  Th Wendigo is one way of understanding why bad things happen.Thought provoking, pretty and totally engrossing!  Watch this film. "},{"Title":"Intimate story provides good scare","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Patricia Clarkson, Jake Weber and Erik Per Sullivan are perfect in this story about a troubled family over coming obstacles both personal and external.Jake Weber is excellent as the surly, emotinally distance father. Erik Per Sullivan shows that he is the most versatile child acter in film. He does comedy well in Malcolm in the Middle and has good dramatic chops in this film as well as The Cider House Rules.Patricia Clarkson is the emotional center of the film. she is strong, vulnerable, loving and sexy. The special effects in this film seem purposely archiac. It seperates it was all of the slick animatronic crap being pawned off as horror/sci-fi out there today. I like this film. "},{"Title":"Wendigo Dull and pretentious","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie is S-L-O-W. Spent most of the movie actually waiting for it to 'begin'.The setting was bleak, the script was bleak, the cinematography was bleak, the plot was bleak, the budget was low (not that all low budget movies are bad, but this one had no redeeming features).The plot was more consumed with a vengeful, slightly deranged hunter than the actual Wendigo which made a very brief appearance toward the end of the movie. This in itself was disappointing as this 'Wendigo' was just a bizarre mix of a tree and a stag. Everything about the movie was uninspiring.The parents of the little boy appeared to be rather aloof and at times seemed completely detached from their son. Whether this was down to bad acting or a bad script I'm not sure, but it only heightened my disappointment and boredom levels.There was no food for thought, nothing to pique an interest. With no real intrigue or chill factor, this movie creaked along so painfully, you just couldn't care less what happened by the end.Wendigo's ambiance reminds me of the dull movie shown at the awards ceremony toward the end of 'Mr Bean's Holiday' a movie which is artistic and nonsensical, trying too hard to to be deep and meaningful, but coming across as pretentious and boring.I would never want to watch this again. I only watched it to the end in the vain hope that something interesting might happen ... but it didn't. "},{"Title":"Not Horror...But Horrible","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" (Spoilers galore) This is an absolutely awful film. First of all it has that guy from medium. I guess he's made a career out of playing super doting dads. It was OK the first time he tried to scare his son by pretending to be a monster...but then 10 minutes later they cloyingly did it again! And so it goes, this film moves in excruciating real time. At one point, I started imaging it was days later, until I was reminded that the story line was only at the next day...in the early afternoon still! I'm not really sure who this couple is supposed to be in real life. First of all they are presented as sort of a Manhattan yuppie couple who grew up and had a kid. But they drive an old blue Volvo. Those types stopped driving Volvos decades ago. Today they drive Priuses. But in 2002, I'm sure they still weren't driving Volvos.OK, then there's Wendigo. A mysterious Indian man gives the boy a little magic Wendigo statue and tells him of its powerful magic. C'mon...are we still doing ancient Indian mysteries. Just to drive it home, they pan across every Indian statue in their tourist trap upstate New York town. American Indians are portrayed in a manner not seen for decades in this film! Oh, and about Wendigo. He is not actually the cause of the horror. He doesn't kill the kid's dad which is the most horrible thing in the film...he's just killed by an ordinary hick with a grudge and a high powered rifle. The Wendigo only comes out late in the film to avenge the guy who killed the dad...oh, but wait, it seemed earlier that Wendigo was kind of mad at the dad, maybe because he killed a deer...so then Wendigo must have been happy that the dad was killed...but...And so it goes...insulting, boring and nonsensical. There is no reason to watch this film at all. "},{"Title":"avoid","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I had never heard of Larry Fessenden before but judging by this effort into writing and directing, he should keep his day job as a journeyman actor. Like many others on here, I don't know how to categorize this film, it wasn't scary or spooky so can't be called a horror, the plot was so wafer thin it can't be a drama, there was no suspense so it can't be a thriller, its just a bad film that you should only see if you were a fan of the Blair witch project. People who liked this film used words, like ambiguity and complex and subtle but they were reading into something that wasn't there. Like the Blair witch, people got scared because people assumed they should be scared and bought into some guff that it was terrifying. This movie actually started off well with the family meeting the locals after hitting a deer. It looked like being a modern day deliverance but then for the next 45 minutes, (well over half the film), nothing happened, the family potted about their holiday home which was all very nice and dandy but not the slightest bit entertaining. It was obvious the locals would be involved in some way at some stage but Essendon clearly has no idea how to build suspense in a movie. Finally, when something does happen, its not even clear how the father was shot, how he dies, (the nurse said his liver was only grazed), and all the time this wendigo spirit apparently tracks down the apparent shooter in a very clumsy way with 3rd grade special effects. The film is called Wendigo but no attempt is made to explain it in any clear way, the film ends all muddled and leaves you very unsatisfied, i would have bailed out with 15 minutes to go but I wanted to see if this movie could redeem itself. It didn't. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and beautiful","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  no it isnt a horror film. it has supernatural themes. but this is a beautiful story about a REAL family. as in, they are unlikeable, they go through life making things good, making things bad, and it is all wonderfully written. yes, the direction is a little up and down sometimes. but that is one hell of a script and one hell of a piece of acting from this ensemble. it is intelligent, it doenst give you all the answers, and in the end it left me truly moved. a flawed, but beautiful film which certainly deserves at least 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A young family from the City ventures to uncountry New York State to confront the visible fury of rural dispossession and the unseen fury of the spirit world.","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is jammed with realized themes. Themes that are familiar enough -- marital conflict, the sensitive child, the tension between the physical and the unseen worlds -- so that merely to invoke them activates them in the film. Once activated, the themes are played against one another beautifully. The cinematography, by deploying time lapse and cascading stills, emphasizes each theme as it introduced. Amidst all these themes, there is actual character development, as you are introduced to a rather distracted husband and father who is struggling to create a persona that works for family life, his spouse whose agreeable surface masks an intense controlling nature and their rural antagonist's relentless rage. Altogether, Wendigo is remarkably rich and densely resonant. "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst ending I've ever seen, and it's deliberately so.","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wendigo is a smart and enjoyably creepy movie, right up until an ending that's so atrocious it not only makes you retroactively hate the film but also makes you wish writer/director Larry Fessenden had never been born.A tense mixture of family drama, rural menace and supernatural threat, this is the story of the McLaren family spending the weekend at some friends' country home. George (Jake Weber) is the father, a good man full of anger at the world and at himself. Kim (Patricia Clarkson) is the mother, a psychiatrist who feels there's something wrong with her family but isn't sure what to do about it. Miles (Erik Per Sullivan) is the son, a quiet boy with a tender heart and delicate spirit. Driving into the country, the McLarens run over a deer and get stuck in the snow. Three hunters emerge from the woods chasing after the deer. They include Otis Stookey (John Speredakos), an unsettling redneck who is not only angry at the McLarens for hitting the deer and damaging its valuable antlers but appears angered by the McLarens' very existence.Getting back on the road, George, Kim and Miles make it to their friends' home where they not only discover a bullet hole, they find Otis turning up in his pickup truck. When they head into town for supplies, they find Otis there. Even when George and Kim get a little frisky at night on the living room couch, Otis is there watching through the window. Compounding all that, Miles begins having awful visions. At first they're of Otis, but then they become about a horrible forest spirit called the Wendigo. As this normal family just tries to have a weekend for themselves, you can fell real and magical terrors hiding out of sight, waiting to leap out and tear at them. An innocent bit of sledding by George and Miles goes tragically wrong&#x85;and that's when the thrice-damned ending kicks in and leaves viewers wanting to kick in their TV screens.Though he uses a few too many camera tricks for my taste, writer/director Fessender starts out doing a marvelous job with Wendigo. He creates this easily believable, deeply likable family unit and eases them slowly into an increasingly disturbing setting until you're on the edge of your seat, waiting for what's going to happen to them. Jake Weber does a great job playing a man whose unacknowledged unhappiness seeps into his relationship with his son and his wife. Erik Per Sullivan makes Miles into an actual child and not some overly precious Hollywood midget. Patricia Clarkson is domestically seductive as a woman trying to deal with an unhappy husband and a sensitive son, while also being worthy of induction into the Milf Hall of Fame.There's so much to like about Wendigo&#x85;and then there's that ending. It's like a gourmet meal that finishes with a bowl full of maggot-infested vomit. This conclusion isn't just bad on its own, though it is. Everyone who watches this film could tell you exactly what the ending should have been, an ending that would have pleased and satisfied everyone who enjoyed all that came before it. Not only does writer/directer Fessenden not give the audience that ending, he gives us the complete opposite of it. And he doesn't do it to make any thematic point or for any reason other than pretentious creative orneriness. It's like Fessenden is one of the independent filmmakers who can't stand the thought of making a crowd-pleasing movie, so he welded on an ending that urinates all over the viewers.After the first 75 minutes of this film, I was really to heartily recommend people watch it. After the last 15 minutes, I would not only urge you to avoid Wendigo but I would encourage you to never watch any other film directed by Larry Fessenden. "},{"Title":"Overanalyse this!","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The opening scene of this film sets the pace for the entirety of its ninety minutes. The shots are generic, conventional, and of television movie quality. The snow drenched scenery is gorgeous, yet the characters held with in it have a similar quality to that of looking at a photograph of such scenery, the overwhelming feeling being that of distance. Some of the editing is fairly high quality and the work of an veteran professional, the dialogue however is clunky and artificial, having little bearing on 'real' conversations at all seemingly. Any emotional insight is displaced in favour of swearing, which is of course the way in which everyone shows their true feelings. The action is slow and underwhelming, the overall feeling being one of someone trickling cold water over your head, but so slowly that you barely notice, yet eventually you feel pathetic and slightly sorry for yourself for being caught in such a incomprehensible situation.The mixture of genres that the Fessenden has seemingly tried to use; psychological thriller, horror and family drama, although commendable suffers from a serious lack of tension and interesting dialogue. The way in which the husband, wife and child trio interact is particularly unrealistic. The themes of family relationships being played out in haunting setting have been covered countless times before by far superior films, an instant example being that of The Shining (1980). The family unit here are torn by innocuous troubles which are hard to understand or sympathise with considering the relative ambiguity of the script.The family unit is hardly stalked throughout the film, Fessenden playing down the thriller possibilities of the narrative in favour of a slow family drama for the majority of the running time. The 'stalker' figure Otis has few apparent motives for his behaviour and despite being perhaps the most interesting and well acted character is still very underdeveloped. The main characters are empty husks of people who it was extremely hard to relate to, their relationships with each other being particularly void of any sentiment or feeling. Although the ignorance of the Erik per Sullivan's young character by his parents is presumably part of the story, surely any reasonable person would question their son if he allegedly spoke to someone who seemingly doesn't exist? People can accept this film as intelligent because of its relative lack of conventional aspects regarding creature based horror movies but this film fails in respect of whichever genre you wished to pigeonhole it in. You can read deep psychological meanings into every single minute detail of anything if you should so wish to but I think people would be better off over analysing their carpet for some deep emotional meaning, rather than these vacuous sub-human creations. "}]