[{"Title":"When skateboarding became more than nose wheelies and handstands.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"31 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Anyone looking to learn more about the development of skateboarding should find Dogtown and Z-Boys adequate research material. This is not to be confused with Lords of Dogtown, that sorry Hollywood attempt to cash in on the success of the original Dogtown revival. Directed by Stacey Peralta, a former Z-Boys himself as well as pro skater and mastermind behind the 80s Bones Brigade, and co-written with skateboarding photojournalist Craig Stecyk, this documentary traces how a group of surfing kids from Southern California's mean streets (known as Dogtown) who formed the Z-Boys skateboard team (actually there was one girl--Peggy Oki) revolutionized skateboarding. The film contains interviews from nearly all of the Z-Boys (Chris Cahill's whereabouts are unknown) with the most noteable being bad ass Tony Alva and the youngest, Jay Adams, who's talents (along with Perlata) seemed to transcend the rest of the teams. There are interviews of the team's (and the Dogtown shop) founders, surfboard designer Jeff Ho, Skip Engbloom, and Craig Stecyk. There are also interviews of folks like Tony Hawk (obviously), Ian McKaye (Fugazi), and Henry Rollins, who were young kids in the 70s when Dogtown was making it's influence on skateboarding (skateboarding was a whole other context in previous years as the documentary explains). It really shows you not only who the Dogtown team was and how they formed, but why their style changed not only skateboarding tricks (pool skating became immensley popular, and thus gave way to vert skating), but also facilitated the sport (though not into the extreme commercialism it is today) as more than just the fleeting fad it had been earlier as these surfing kids who's waves ran out in the early morning needed ways to spend their time and eventually got into skateboarding. The days of Russ Howell and Alan Gelfand were long over as the Dogtown, at least through the publicity of their skate team, paved the way for the new generation of skaters. Because Dogtown got all the attention, they were able to push skating to the next step.It's a great documentary in the way that it is put together, though Stacey Peralta always knew how to do this even when producing the Bones Brigade mini movies/skate demos like Ban This and Search for Animal Chin. Narrated by Sean Penn, the film is accompanied by a fantastic soundtrack, contains lots of terrific archive footage, and lots of interview to give you a genuine feel of who the Z-Boys were and how they made their mark on skateboarding.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Interesting Story & History","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  First off, the movie was great. It did what it was supposed to do.. and that was to tell the story of a certain time, place and people. Maybe the Z-Boys weren't choir boys (and one girl) but they were real people (kids) and they took the whole idea of skateboarding to new levels... I absolutely enjoyed this movie.. not only because I am from Dogtown (Venice/ Mar Vista/ S.M (south of Wilshire)), used to skateboard (I sucked) and that I dealt with the Z-Boys a few times when they were using my aunt's pool and were scaring my grandma.. but because this movie was about them (the Z-Boys) and the time and the place. Sure there was a semi skateboard culture in the 60's that died out pretty quickly... but the Z-Boys restarted the whole skateboard thing again.. and not only did they restart it; they resurrected and recreated it. Nowadays it is almost a regular thing to see some guy flying out of a pool or a half pipe getting air, etc.. But back then it was something new. They revolutionized the whole thing. There were electric guitars and guitar players before Hendrix but he took it to a whole different level and what he left in his wake is the same thing the Z-Boys left in their's.To the people who seem to want to criticize the movie or the Z-Boys for talking about themselves.. well the movie was about them.. Remember what it is like to be young and invincible.. and to revolutionize something that they loved by just doing what they loved.. sure it is easy to get an ego.. just ask a kid who learns how to finally play a Hendrix song on a guitar... it is the same thing except the Z-Boys defined the revolution that was to come. They were young, brash and from a place that was a slum by the shore. Sure it was wrong to trash and terrorize people who came to their beach or whatever.. but by the same token.. people from this side of the hill would get a lot of abuse when they went to the Valley or other areas. That doesn't make it right but it does make it what it was. There was a sectional divide in the greater L.A. area. The Z-Boys just happened to be at the forefront of the beach wars.The Z-Boys rocked and they weren't perfect angels but they were real.. look what happened to Jay Adams.. They were part of the times and places that was the L.A. beach scene.Finally, I think the style of this movie fit the subject very well. Stacy Peralta was part of the Z-Boys and he did this film as a tribute to what they were all about. It was a rebellion not for the sake of ego but for the sake of something they all enjoyed doing. The camera work, the (killer) soundtrack and the memories were great. The best part, though, might have been the fact that they themselves seemed to document their own history with still pictures and film.To quote the Surf Punks, My beach, my waves, my chicks, go home.Rock on!!!!  "},{"Title":"The birth of extreme sports","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" My skateboarding career ended in 1974 when my two-by-four skateboard with steel roller-skate wheels hit a rock and I tumbled, for days it seemed, down the sidewalk outside my parent's house in Boston. By the time the cast came off my arm, summer was gone.But I have always admired the X-games types and surfers especially. I think I spent the first month after I moved to Southern California on the beaches and piers watching the surfers, bemoaning that fact that I had missed my calling. It's the sort of thing you should learn young, before the horrible senses of self-preservation and self-awareness burrow in. Or else at best, you'll be so worried about not getting hurt or laughed at, you'll wind up looking like a trained bear.I always admired how a good surfer seems to not care about anything but that moment, that wave, that experience. At one with the forces of nature. A good surfer makes it look like there is nothing else but that wave right there, and the way you interact with it. There's a lot of Zen in it to me.This documentary outlines how a few young folks took the surfing concepts and extended them to skateboarding. Ramps, downgrades, low sweeping curves while interacting with the cement waves beneath their feet. In their day and time, this was all new. radical. Prior to the Zephyr Skate team the idea apparently was to go as fast as you could in a straight line on a skateboard, hence my long Evel Knievel at Caesers Palace like tumble down the front walk.This film is a look back through time, to an America before EVERYTHING was labeled, tagged, marketed, and jam-forced down our throats as Extreme. (Seriously, what's so extreme about an Extreme value meal at Taco Bell? Other than the fact that it is an extreme hazard to your colon...) Watch this film and watch the birth of 'extreme sports'. Before there was an X-games, before Boom-boom Huck-Jam, before Crusty Demons, before the ASA...there were these young street urchins who created 'extreme sports' without really trying. They were just doing it for the purity, the pure pleasure, of skateboarding in the sun with friends. I hope they get a cut of the 'extreme' money out there. Goodness knows they don't get the credit they deserve. Maybe this film can correct that.Excellent film with a great soundtrack, a portrait of a Southern California, indeed an America, that no longer exists.I don't care for Sean Penn but he does a decent job narrating. "},{"Title":"Hits on multiple levels","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Being in the suburbs of New York when the Z-Boys were creating history in Dogtown, I was only exposed to a glimpse of what was going on. I had a P-O-S Black Knight skateboard with clay wheels. It is long gone, and on the ash heap of my personal life. But I never forgot. It's like watching long-lost brothers and friends, and it hits me right where I live. I cannot watch this film enough. Every time I view it, some other aspect rises to the top, some other viewpoint come into sharp focus. The vintage footage, the incredible stills, the current personalities intermeshed with the vivid shadows of the brightly lit past, the heartfelt and not over-done narrative, all beautifully edited together in such a way as to make a landmark documentary of a genuine slice of American history. In the words of Glen Friedman - It was F-ing unbelievable.  "},{"Title":"Buy it, rent it, just watch it!","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  If you have ever been, has a friend, or a kid that is or was into skating at one time, then watch this flick!. I have seen it several times and I get something new out of it every time that I see it. It reminded me of why I got into skating in the first place (a long time ago) . It reminded me of what skating brings to a person and I have found will also help a person who doesn't understand why skaters, well, skate. Sure there is a very dark side to the whole seen, which the movie does touch on slightly. But it tends to focus more on what is at the core of skating. Just a person on a board, doing it because they love to do it. This movie was so inspirational to me that I'm now skating once again (I'm 32) and I haven't been this happy with my self in years&#133;.. Give this one a go, you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Melancholia","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  This documentary struck a great emotional chord with me.  Just reminded me of what it felt like to be a kid in the 70s trying to figure out who you were.  Yeah, the men/women talk about their teenage selves like they were superheroes - but that's exactly how I like to remember those years in my life, too.  ;)  And I didn't do anything quite as cool as those kids did.I love this movie because it shows the people and the developing sport of skateboarding as being truly products of their environment.  Where you grow up, what you see, and who you hang with - these things create you.  It was great to see people looking back on that, acknowledging it, accepting it, and taking pride in it.  Yeah, maybe a little too much pride in some cases...  Interesting to see where everyone ended up at the end. Oh, and a good soundtrack.  I bought the movie and will watch it many times over the years, I'm sure. "},{"Title":"Edgy documentary on skateboarding...","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  A close-up look at the birth of skate board culture in Southern California, Dogtown and Z-Boys has attitude to burn, just like the sport it documents. Directed by Stacy Peralta, one of the legends of the sport, it captures the punk rock spirit of skate boarding, and perfectly places it into context within the boundaries of time (the 1970s) and location (a neighbourhood between Santa Monica and Venice, California). Even if you are not a fan you'll be fascinated by the story, which is told using a combination of narration, stills, great vintage 1970s skate boarding footage and new interviews with all the key players. Sean Penn provides the narration, and adds a flair all of his own. The opposite of stodgy, Penn speaks to the audience not at them, sounding like someone sitting at a bar telling the tale. At one point in mid-sentence he coughs, pauses for a moment and then continues. It's this kind of approach that gives this movie its edge.  "},{"Title":"Thanks to IFC I finally caught this amazing film-well worth the wait!","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Back in the day, I was one of the RN's in the Emergency Rooms, these skaters would occasionally land in. They were not treated well, and some of it was brought on by their asocial personalities- but we all knew they were a talented bunch of wonderkids even then. They deserved better care than they received, I'm afraid. They had attitude in spades.I'm so glad I caught this documentary on IFC tonight- it will be on again at 1 am and I'll be watching again!Little attention was given to them until the rich dying kid was able to talk his parents into draining the pool- and the film really highlights that as the taking off point....it was an amazing time, and deserved to be recorded. Stacy Peralta is due all the praise heaped on him, and long may those Z-Boys enjoy their memories and contribution to the real sport of skateboarding. As for the few sour grape reviews contained herein, there always were and there always will be wannabees and hangers-on who never do more than dream...the Z-boys lived it, breathed it, were it.Nice to see the vintage films and even the lone girl, Peggy who was so talked about as being the only female to win their respect.Thanks to IFC I get to really take the occasional drug-free head trip of my youth and relive the heart pounding excitement again. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Even for an Outsider","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I never surfed or skateboarded but I still found this documentary fascinating.  I accidentally stumbled on it while channel surfing (not sidewalk surfing) and watched it a second time later in the day.  The Z-Boys made me think of the early days of rock and roll when young kids with no formal musical training basically invented rock and roll as they went along..  It seems the Z-Boys did the same with skateboarding.   "},{"Title":"Consummate Style, Invented Being","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Spoilers herein.I usually have a hard time with documentaries. Film for me is a matter of conversations between different parts of myself and various personalities (and virtual personalities as elements) within the project. This requires a certain synthesis of the reality in and of the film. Most documentaries, the journalistic ones, cannot acknowledge the synthetic nature of what they show.No so here. The topic is one that interests kids making up something that has no purpose other than being a vehicle for style - and it carrying that meme of style to millions, perhaps hundreds of millions, of kids. A question of expression completely in line with what happened to our music and dress for a long while before the counterforces of hiphop and country developed.Cool. And as with so many such successful, youth-driven revolutions, this one was invented by savvy journalism. These same journalists now do a metajob on reporting both the phenomenon and how they created it. Along the way, they have copious interviews with the players.The same style is used in the film as in the skating, which is a practiced but of course not entirely committed ragginess. There is no mention of the sex and little note of drugs except that the star skater (perhaps the only one that was truly committed) is now incarcerated. He is a completely dulled individual now, the walking dead.So we have double folding journalism about journalism about self-journalism. The style of style.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "}{"Title":"3 stars","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  This documentary traces the origins and life of the Zephyr skateboard team, using original film shot in the 1970s (mostly by Craig Stecyk) combined with interviews of the team members and other influential people today.The first part of the film documents how the Dogtown section of Venice, CA came to be, starting back around the turn of the century when the town was created to be a Venice, Italy-like European city. By the 1970's, the one remaining local attraction, the Pacific Ocean Park, had been abandoned, leaving a beach with lots of exposed piers and other hazards. The poor kids living in the area had nothing better to do than surf, and they excelled despite (or perhaps because of) their surroundings. Because the waves dissipated in the afternoon, they took up skateboarding to fill their time, and the empty swimming pools caused by the drought during those years plus their surfing backgrounds led them to create the vertical skateboarding style that is mainstream today. I found that the film covered much more about surfing than I expected, which seemed like a bonus since I really didn't know much about surfing or skateboarding before I watched the film. The soundtrack, not surprisingly, was good as well. I also liked how these kids were just following their passion and generally ended up better off for the experience. The parts that didn't work so well for me were the drama that they tried to create, which seemed somewhat forced, and the team's somewhat overinflated sense of self-importance (although this is probably just left-over street attitude from where they grew up). This is not to say that they didn't have significant influence, but only that it seems extremely likely that there were other factors as well. One note My wife is more affected than most to nausea when films use what we refer to as SpastiCam (wiggling camera movements). This film is often guilty, so if you are so afflicted, be warned. I would recommend this film to anyone, but especially to anyone with skateboarding and/or surfing in their history.Seen on 5/11/2002. "},{"Title":"Rockin'","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  DOGTOWN AND Z-BOYS rocks.  It infuses awesome 70s music with breathtaking shots of So Cal kids with long straight hair.  I couldn't get enough of Stacey Peralta's look at a culture of renegade skateboarders that took American culture by storm.  Even if they weren't quite as ground breaking as they claimed to be, the Z-Boys are a privelage  to watch.  And the photographs.  Wow-wee.  I got nostalgic for an era that I wasn't even around for.  Something about youth and those LA palms.  A great film for anyone who wants to rock.  Also, loved the Led Zeppelin.  Obscure track from Presence.  Stacey, keep on makin' 'em, man! On a side note Adams (the most talented of the group) fell victim to the stardom and (POSSIBLE SPOILER!!!) is interviewed from a Hawaii prison.  He is the one z-boy who fell at the waste side. "},{"Title":"brings back fond memories","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I'm sure glad I finally took the time to rent and watch this documentary! It really brings back a lot of fond memories of skateboarding when I was a surfer kid back in the early seventies.  Everything in this movie was familiar to me, the surfing, the skating, the names of the skaters, the equipment they were riding.  As I watched all these kids ripping and doing the moves we strived so hard to emulate, I could feel the old stoke returning to my veins.  Peralta (a great skater himself) really captures the electricity and energy of the time and the place.  I'm 47 years old now, but after seeing this movie I'm so fired up I think I may have to get a board and get back out there (wearing a helmet and lots of pads, of course). "},{"Title":"Interesting documentary that also works as a time capsule.","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Let me say first of all that I spent a total of about two minutes of my life on a skateboard before I realized I was totally uncoordinated.  I've always thought it was cool watching cats that know how to get extreme on 'em do their stuff, but I've never been a skateboarder and have never really followed the sport.  That being said, I thought this was a very informative and interesting documentary.  Some reviewers have said that these dudes were sort of waving their own flag a bit, but what the hell? It looks to me that these guys probably deserve as much credit as anyone for giving the skateboarding world a jolt and they've provided some good footage of their innovations to back it up. It's great the way viewers are allowed to see these guys both then and now and the footage they shot while they were teens growing up in California provides some interesting nostalgia that goes a bit beyond the sport of skating. I never would have realized where extreme skating came from, but this films sort of ties all the pieces together and gives us an informative documentary.  I'm sure it's at least a tad biased, but aren't all documentaries?  Worth watching for anyone interested in the sport or, as in my case, anyone who grew up in the 1970's.    "},{"Title":"These guys changed everything. Many of them are now forgotten.","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I have seen this movie twice now on cable.  The first time I saw it, it caught me by suprise.  The skaters I was seeing were the guys we followed in the pages of Skateboarder magazine back in the late 70's.  These were the guys we copied and tried to become while skating.  I am glad that a film was finally made that gives an accurate account of how it all came to be.  I am almost 40 years old now and I guess a pretty uptight kind of guy with all of life's problems, however; this film did a great job of taking me back. Back to the vacant pools, the backyard halfpipes and the road trips to Cherry Hill NJ.  I suspect that in order to really understand this movie and appreciate it, you had to live it.  Otherwise, it probably won't have the impact on you as it did me.  But for those of you (and you know who you are), who did live it, you know exactly what I am talking about!  In any event, I don't care who you are, if you get a chance to see this movie...do it! I give thanks to the Z-Boys of Dogtown for the memories of my youth and thanks to Stacy for making this movie!  JOB WELL DONE! "},{"Title":"way cool documentary","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  this is one of the greatest documentaries i've ever seen along with Dark Days. I have skated for maybe an hour my entire life, and I still love this movie. Peralta and his excellent editor captured the feeling and atmosphere perfectly, helped in part with some incredible archival footage. Tony Alva is one of the coolest individuals in existence. Love those knee high striped sport socks, you rock Tony!Not only is this movie a visual feast, but the soundtrack has to be one of the best in history, if you're into 70's rock. Buy the DVD, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"I loved it....","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I don't skate...I can't skate... I don't really care about skating, but I loved this movie!! It may not have been all that objective, but that didn't really matter...you couldn't help thinking- Damn, those kids were COOL!! However, it also made me a little sad, because I WANNA SKATE AND I WANNA SURF NOW...but...I'm a girl...and I'm too old...even though they say in the movie, that you are never too old...I still think 21 is too old!!! o)It looks so liberating...they look so free...Someone said in a review, that if you didn't like skating, you wouldn't like this movie, but that is NOT true... It wasn't just about skating...it was about a feeling... That might also be the reason, why it was not objective...it was about these kids and how loved this sport...how they felt when they were together... Anyway, that's how I saw it...!  "},{"Title":"if your put off by this film due to it's self indulgence you don't get the whole dogtown thing","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  This film moved me at age 39 in the same way that all the footage and coverage of Dogtown affected me when I was 13.  For all of those who criticized the self promotion of the Z boys interviewed, they have the last laugh on you.  That was their whole deal, we're better than all of you and here's why....(insert footage of the smoothest pool carve imaginable) This was a film to tell their story and that was their story whether you like it or not.  It was THEIR opinion of their skating that mattered..... not yours or mine.  I thought the film captured their attitude and influence exactly as I remembered it in the 70's.  The reality is that they DID revolutionize skateboarding, they WERE the impetus behind extreme sports and they DID inject a cultural paradigm that reached into every corner of americana. This movie gave rebirth to images of Bertleman on a wave and Alva and Jay Adams ripping up the coping that WAS the California Dream to an entire culture of young american teenagers that just wanted to have fun and get rad!  As I watched this film I realized that it was these images that I lived with every day until I was old enough to move out and back down to So Cal after my family had moved to Nor Cal when I was five.  Until I could get back, my buddies and I built and thrashed ramp after ramp, searched for every empty pool possible and mimicked everything Stecyk covered about these guys.  We are all educated and have family's and careers now but this film reminds me who I was at that age and why I still surf.  This is an inspired film that anyone who has an interest in pop culture, extreme sports, the 70's or even just good documentary film making will enjoy completely. Whenever it comes on cable I can't change the channel.  Kudos to Stacy Peralta for making a beautiful piece of art! "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing!!!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I remember when skateboarding had it's rebirth in the 70s.  I begged my parents for money to by a second-hand skateboard from a friend.  It was a piece of junk, complete with clay wheels and everything.  I also remember reading Skateboarder Magazine and being both completely impressed and totally terrified of the Dogtown crew.  Skating never became a way of life for me, but in some ways it has always been a part of my life, whether it is using a board for transportation or just having a bunch of friends that skate.This film is a brilliant documentary of the real birth of modern day skating.  Watching this crew turn skating from the flat boring hobby it was into the vertical lifestyle it has become had me sitting slack-jawed for 90 minutes.  It's amazing that enough footage from this period still exists to have created this film, and thank god for that.  The footage is brilliant.  It gave me the feeling of watching an old Buster Keaton film I've seen some of the tricks Keaton did repeated countless times in other films since then, but when you go back and see the first person to perform that trick it's amazing that, not only were they the first person to try it successfully, but that they lived through it and made it seem effortless.  That's the feeling this film gave me.  Yeah, I've seen people skate pools before, but to watch the FIRST people skating pools and inventing the tricks that eventually became the basics of modern skating is like watching the facade of the house fall on Keaton, leaving him standing safely in the frame of a window.  It's absolutely brilliant to watch something that, up until that point, had never been tried before, but since, has been tried by almost everyone.This film is beautiful to watch and incredible to listen to.  The soundtrack is one of the best I've ever heard in a film.  This is a film that will appeal to people whether they like skating or not.  I've talked to a couple of friends of mine who made their girlfriends sit through this film after heavy protest, and they all said that their girlfriends were mesmerized by the end of the film and loved it as much as they did. As for the previous comments on this board that complain about the film being too self congratulatory, I think that's an unfair disparagement.  I liked seeing these guys get excited about their past.  They created something that influenced their sport and changed it forever.  They have the right to pat themselves on the back.  They were stars for doing what they loved to do.  Most of these guys/girls never achieved the staggering success Tony Hawk enjoys today, but that kind of success wasn't available to skaters then.  Sure, they had some success, but more importantly, they have been able to live a life doing what they love to do, and, as we see in the end, almost all of them still surf, skate or work in the surf/skate industry.  How many of us can say that we have been able to live our lives and have been successful by breaking all the rules and doing what we love to do?  They can.  My hat's off to the Dogtown and Z-Boys for being themselves and changing the world of skateboarding forever. "},{"Title":"If you are a skater or you like this sport, you must see this movie","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I saw this movie on the lowlands festival (23, 24, 25th of august) after a friend of mine said this is a very cool movie about the history of skating. I didn't now what to expect from this movie. Was it recorded by a couple of skaters who thought they could do a couple of cool tricks, or was it a documentary about skating.So i went in, after waiting for about an hour, whit out any expectations.This movie is really a nice piece of work about the beginning of skateboarding. It started with the zephyr team, who where a fine group of surfers. This is taking place in a not so nice area to live in. At a certain point the waves are not so good any more to surf on. So they try something else. skateboarding was a fact. If you were a part of the zephyr team in that time, you where one of the cool guys/girls. Because a lot of people saw an escape from the place they were living in with the zephyr team. So they were trying all there new tricks now on a skateboard. In no time skateboarding was popular again. There were a couple of competitions and one national competition. The zephyr team was taking part on several competition and also the national one. But what they were doing on there skateboards was unbelievable. But the jury didn't now how to judge them. So they put the whole skateboarding world on it's head.Anyway i can tell you the rest of the film/documentary, but you must see this one with you're own eyes. Because then you can feel the vibe of this movie. This movie got a lot of style for me, so i rewarded it with a 8.Greetings from gijs and the rest of Holland. See you.  "}{"Title":"Worth watching just to hear Gut Feeling again!","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  First off, I'd like to say I know basically zilch about the origins and the rebirth of skateboarding.  I remember ordering and thumbing through Thrasher for the magazine rack in my music store 20 years ago, and watching all the skate punks with their Circle Jerks t-shirts snap it up upon arrival.  But I just couldn't relate, and still can't.Flash forward to today, and it's pretty much still that way.  I've heard of one guy (Tony Hawk), and always surf (no pun intended) right on by when the X-games are on ESPN.That being said, I enjoyed this documentary.  As was stated by several postings earlier, there was a bit of overkill by the makers discussing how great and groundbreaking they all were.  But hey, it's their movie, and they were there, so why not.  So sit back and enjoy this time capsule of the late 70's when you get a chance.I guess the thing that totally impressed me the most was the music used in the film.  I'm not sure if the record labels who own the rights to all these classic tunes cut the filmmakers any breaks for the licensing and use of all this great period music, but this was probably the most impressive group of songs I've ever heard in a documentary.  It surely puts to shame the crap heard in almost every big-budget film coming out these days. "},{"Title":"Oh, we were amazing....","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I live in Santa Monica and found the history lesson and nostolgiaworth watching, but the self congradulatory nature of this film hadme rolling my eyeballs about every ten seconds.   Okay, you were different and really good at skateboarding. Butlines like, we did a thousand things with a structure that thearchitect never dreamed of. (Maybe 20 things...) And It was likeMuhammad Ali knocking down Joe Frazier, got a little tough tohandle after the first half hour.   I think that, if about half to three quarters of the interview footage ofthe Zephyr team telling us what bad asses they were and whatrock stars, they became could have been taken out, I would haveappreciated their talents even more. I guess I'm just one of thosewho thinks that it should be the audience member who gets to seewhat the people accomplish and then sit back and make their ownjudgements about whether or not the subjects are worthy of thatkind of praise.  One thing I really liked about The Last Waltz, was that everyonewho watches it gets to make up their own mind about what kind ofmusical influences the members were.   I think it's kind of ironic that the subjects of this film talk about egogetting in the way of the artistic nature of the sport, but they haven'tseemed to learn anything from it as they sort of ruin this film withtheir grown up ego. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Dogtown and Z-BoysSummary Dogtown and Z-boys is a documentary about a group of revolutionary teenagers that changed the world of surfing and skateboarding in Venice (Dogtown), California as we know it today. With their low pivotal style, they embarked on a Larry Bertlemen influenced journey that would lead to countless successes and a couple failures. After the Dogtown articles were featured in a reinstated Skateboarder Magazine, the sport was revamped and the members of the Zephyr skateboard team forgot about Jeff Ho, and looked to be on summer vacation for the rest of their lives by joining other skateboard teams that could afford to pay them like movie stars. The original Zephyr Skateboard Team put together by Jeff Ho (Zephyr Surfshop Owner) and Craig Stecyk (Photographer) included Jay Adams, Tony Alva, Stacy Peralta, Bob Biniak, Chris Cahill, Shogo Kubo, Paul Constantineau, Jim Muir, Peggy Oki (the only female), Nathan Pratt, Wentzle Ruml IV, Allen Sarlo, and David Ray Perry. All of the original members except Jay Adams and Chris Cahill are still well and surfing/skating. Jay Adams, at the time of the documentary, was serving time on drug related charges. Chris Cahill, at the time of the documentary, was last seen in Mexico.Themes The themes of this documentary are kind of read-between-the-lines, but if there were a clear-cut theme it would be that even kids can spark revolutions. Other themes would include extensive partying in one's past may lead to an unfulfilling future, and by planning and being careful with one's assets a very rewarding future could be at hand.Other Works Stacy Peralta (Writer and Director) has a fairly wide range of documentaries that he has either written, produced, or directed. Most with a common theme of surfing or skateboarding, such as Riding Giants, Sk8 TV, The Bones Brigrades, and Lords of Dogtown. He has also done films with a theme of growing up in America as a teenager, films such as Influences From Yesterday to Today, Crips and Bloods Made in America, and The 70s The Decade that Changed Television.Subjects The subjects of Dogtown and Z-boys are the original members of the Zephyr Skateboard Team excluding Chris Cahill. Peralta included Jeff Ho and Craig Stecyk in the interviews. Other subjects were people who grew up during the 70s reading the Dogtown Articles as well as skateboard enthusiasts. Skaters from the Dogtown area, but not on the team were interviewed.Editing The editing of this film was phenomenal in my opinion. There were scenes of the subjects talking so that the audience could see who was speaking and get a sense of the character, but would immediately cutaway to archival footage that would explain what the speaker was saying. When a song could explain the emotions of the subjects better, such as when Jay Adams' unfortunate life was a subject of talk, the song Old Man by Neil Young was played, which evokes many emotions. Sean Penn was the narrator for the film and he explained the transitions throughout the film. The film was presented chronologically from the time the Zephyr surf team was put together, to creating the skateboard team, to all of the Z-boys leaving the team to join other skate companies or create their own company. Cinematography The film was shot in an interesting way. The film of the subjects speaking were all in black and white and all of the archival footage of the Z-Boys surfing or skating were in color. Of course the footage from the 70s was grainy, but that only enhanced the film. The interviewees were mostly shot in the same area it appears, but all were outside. All of the footage was very well-controlled even the archival footage which I found very surprising. Music Seasons of Wither-Performed by Aerosmith Toys in the Attic-Performed by Aerosmith Generation Landslide- Alice Cooper One Way Out- Performed by The Allman Brothers Lollipops and Roses and Whipped Cream-performed by Herb Alpert Into the Void and Paranoid- performed by Black Sabbath Godzilla- Blue Oyster Cult Aladdin Sane and Rebel Rebel- David Bowie Fastcars- The Buzzcocks Gut Feeling- Devo I'll Give you Money- Peter Frampton Funk 49- James Gang Ezy Rider and Foxy Lady and Freedom and Bold as Love- Jimi Hendrix Sidewalk Surfing- Jan and Dean Achilles Last Stand and Hot on for Nowhere- Led Zeppelin Six Underground- The Sneaker Pimps Surfrider- The Lively Ones Cat Scratch Fever and Motor City Madhouse and Wang Dang Sweet Poontang- Ted Nugent Us and Them- Pink Floyd Bad Boys- The Pretenders Maggie May- Rod Stewart I Wanna be Your Dog and Gimme Danger- The Stooges Children of the Revolution- T-Rex Bad Reputation- Thin Lizzy Disco Inferno- The Tramps Hannah- Rob Trower Rocky Mountain Way- Joe Walsh Old Man- Neil Young La Grange- ZZ TopThe music in the film make the movie. Every one of these songs contributes to what the subjects are saying and evoke emotions that would not have been called to mind otherwise. "},{"Title":"A great insight into the world of skateboarding.","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Dogtown and Z-Boys is a documentary about the Zephyr Skateboarding Team, and their influence on skateboarding. It also focuses on the history of skateboarding. It was directed by Stacy Peralta, a member of the original Zephyr Team, and was written by Stacy Peralta and Craig Stecyk, another member of the team. The documentary stars the members of the Zephyr Team and is narrated by Sean Penn.The documentary talks about the beginning of skateboarding, and how it evolved from surfing. It discusses skateboarding's popularity in the late 60s and the 70s, its decline in the 80s and its 'rebirth' in the 90s. Skateboarding was introduced in Dogtown, the nickname of the poor side of Santa Monica, California. The Zephyr Team originated from the Zephyr Surf Shop, which manufactured the first modern skateboards. The documentary mainly consists of the original Zephyr Team members talking about the past in the Zephyr Team, the competitions they won, and their popularity and prestige. It focuses on three particular members of the team; Peralta, Tony Alva, and Jay Adams, three virtuosos of skateboarding, and probably the best three members of the team.The interviews in the documentary were usually voices over archival footage from Dogtown in the late 60s and 70s. Very rarely to you actually see the people being interviewed, but when you do, they are shown in black and white, while the archival footage was in colour. I think Stacy Peralta used this technique to show that the documentary was about the past (i.e. the Glory Days of the Zephyr Team) and not the present. The documentary is very fast paced, in that we often see clips of impressive skateboarding over up-beat music of the era (such as Jimi Hendrix, Led Zeppelin and David Bowie), and the interviews tend to be quick and to the point. Knowing nothing about skateboarding (i.e. not even knowing how to ride one straight along the ground) I was very surprised that I found this documentary so interesting. The reason is that this doco was more about the Zephyr Team than the actual sport of skateboarding, so while I couldn't relate to skateboarding, I could relate to the boys in the team. Because it was made by actual members of the team, it gives it a little more depth and authenticity.All in all, I would have to say this is one of the best documentaries I have ever seen. It gave me a whole new insight, not just into the Zephyr Team, but into skateboarding as a whole. For those who love skateboarding, I can only imagine how it must be even more interesting. Seven and a half stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"Amazing and so bittersweet","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" My son, an avid skateboarder, sat me down and made me watch this with him. As I love documentaries, it didn't take a whole lot of pressure on his part. The whole amazing story of it all - a bunch of dirt-poor kids drift together and end up creating something revolutionary out of thin air - well, more out of some wood, wheels and lack of waves to surf - it just floored me. It still does. I didn't think I would enjoy it the way I did, nor did I think I would tear up watching Stacey Peralta tear up over the fate of Jay Adams. And just watching Jay Adams himself.....the sheer genius of the kid skating and the shrug of the adult remembering. I watched it again last night for what has to be the 10th time and I still get goosebumps watching him fly down the hill with Jimi Hendrix's Freedom playing in the background. And I teared up, again. Not too many movies have the same impact with me after several viewings. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"Slick and enjoyably fun documentary","Date":"3 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Documentary looking back at the influential role that the Zephyr surfing group had on the development of skateboarding as more than just a passing fade and the effect they had on shaping and defining the skating world and culture.It seems a bit petty to point out but it is hard to watch this film without the little voice in my head reminding me that this film was made by the very people it is about. I'm not paralleling the two but imagine I made a film about the impact on IMDb culture of user bob the moo and had people I know gush about me and them. Now before you start sending me abuse please read on because I am not saying the two are the same &#150; just that you need to keep in mine that this is about the same people who made it. The difference between this and me doing my own is staggering though. Firstly the fact is that this group did have influence and cultural importance and so what if it is some of their own that ending up making the film &#150; somebody was going to so why not them. Anyway the other main difference is that this film is actually very good as it moves slickly through the period, capturing the essence of the lives as I goes.The film benefits greatly from having a huge amount of film and photographs of the people so that we are not just hearing about abstract memories but actually seeing them for ourselves. The editing is quite intense at time but it suits the people and the period as it is rather freewheeling and disrespectful towards convention. It also benefits from having almost all the protagonists as the contributors rather than having celebs who were aware of the action etc and don't have much of value to say. The only film star involved is Sean Penn, who narrates the film with a rather dull tone of voice and a script that is a bit too heavy for its own good; it is sparingly used though and at one point he stumbles over a word and it is left in &#150; which I thought was a nice touch and suited the style of everything else.Overall then this is an interesting and energetic documentary. I'm not a surfer or a skater but yet I found it totally engaging, which speaks volumes about the quality of the material , the delivery and the total structure of the film. Well worth a look as it is fun and informative. "},{"Title":"A great documentary that highlights the importance of surfing and skateboarding to the history of mankind.","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" This film to me deserves a lot of praise, because even though I am not a surfer or skater, I remained inspired throughout the whole documentary.The depth of history and development of these two extreme sports emphasised what they were able to do for two groups of individuals. The dedication that these individuals had/have is truly inspiring and it was because of them that others can now enjoy and do what these guys founded.Unlike most other documentaries, this one was cleverly put together, the amount of footage that was recorded and survived throughout the decades is outstanding and it was because of this that some of the greatest editing I have ever seen was put together and resulted in the subject remaining focused. Without the urge for them to retort to recent footage of the more famous surfers and skaters that remains popular today.The film explores areas such as the success, such accomplishing new tricks, winning competitions and gathering fame. As well as failures such as injury or burning out.It was also fulfilling to hear the experiences come from the skaters and surfers themselves and not from second hand information. This resulted in a better picture to be drawn.Overall, a truly outstanding effort. "},{"Title":"An awesomely funky, exciting and dynamic blast of a sports documentary on professional skateboarding","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" In the groovy mid 70's a scruffy bunch of brash young Venice, California adolescents from broken homes and the bad side of town known as the Z-Boys turned the previously staid world of professional skateboarding on its ear with their fierce punk attitude, radical unconventional riding style, and unbridled spirit of pure in-your-face aggression, revolutionizing the sport in the process and paving the way for the many extreme variations on sports that popped up in their influential wake. Director Stacy Peralta, who's one of the legendary Z-Boys himself, relates the incredible exploits of this amazing ragtag crew in a ferociously punchy and visceral manner that's both informative and wildly entertaining the snappy rapid-fire editing, ceaseless speedy pace, and raw, gritty photography deliver one hell of an infectiously kinetic buzz, projecting a sense of sheer joy and full-on bustling energy that's a total pleasure to behold. Better still, this documentary neither sanitizes nor romanticizes its subjects These rough'n'scrappy lads were so fiercely competitive and out for themselves that they all went their separate ways when the lure of fame and fortune manifested in their lives. The ultimate fates of certain guys is poignant and heartbreaking, with gifted and spontaneous ace skateboard rat Jay Adams rating as the saddest and most tragic He blew his chance at the big time and wound up doing time in jail. The other dudes are very colorful and personable as well; charismatic ball of cocky and defiant fire Tony Alva in particular comes across as one arrogant, yet impressive piece of furiously assertive work. Marvelously narrated with delightfully easy'n'breezy nasal nonchalance by Sean Penn. The terrific rock soundtrack likewise seriously smokes. But what really makes this documentary such a winner is its refreshing complete dearth of pretense It's every bit as dynamic, exuberant and larger-than-life extraordinary as the gloriously outrageous Z-Boys themselves. "},{"Title":"Inspirational","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I am 34 years old and grew up with butt breakin' skateboards made of thin fiberglass.  We read and tried to perform stunts the blonde California hotties did every minute, but we were girls, and to no avail, we grew up in the suburbs of jersey...the closest thing to skateboarding is biking and even that doesn't compare to the West Coast escape of the 70s.  What I am trying to say is this film just brings back a youth...an expereince of the adventure of these guys and the daring feats of skateboarding no one else would even think of at the time.  It is utterly beautiful what these guys did..the style the free style grace...Tony Hawk is great, but this is dance with a board and some wheels...turn yourself on because this is the 70s and this is where skating began..I love you guys! "},{"Title":"hard-core","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  blew my mind to watch these guys literally invent skateboarding. talk about hard-core! boarding is their life and it shows. a must for boarders of all kinds or those interested in the lifestyle. makes you want to get off the couch and start skating. "}{"Title":"fun for this non-skater chick","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I was too young in the seventies to notice much of this movement - aside from vaguely remembering skate parks.  I've never been much for the sport either but I did enjoy the music and the fringe-culture aspect of it even in the late eighties.I do have to say that watching rebellious, lithe, scantily-clad, young teenage boys with long hair doing skateboard acrobatics in the seventies to a good soundtrack isn't a bad way to spend an hour and a half.  And I got to learn about something new to boot.I'm probably not even its most remote target audience but I even watched it twice. "},{"Title":"A vital movie about a vital movement - not just for skaters.","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  If you're a fan of extreme sports, here's your chance to see the birth of it. If you're a skater, you've probably already seen this. But this is not the only niche for this movie.First off, this is a brilliantly edited, exciting documentary to watch - the style is engrossing and it is both celebratory and poignant at different times. In other words, if you like good movies, you should see this. But there's more than that...In any field - be it a sport, a profession, an area of scientific investigation, whatever - there are always innovators. By that, I don't just mean people who excel at it. I mean people who go beyond just excelling, to finding a new way to think about it, who take it to a whole different level and redefine what it means. The Zephyr skateboard team were one such group of individuals. And that is what makes this documentary a must see for everyone, not just skate fans - it documents the process whereby people tear sh*t up and change the world in some small way - and it's that very process that makes this a must-see for everyone.Extra points go for all the period footage and amazing photography courtesy of Craig Stecyk - I freaked out when I recognized the picture of Tony Alva from the cover of Fu Manchu's The Action Is Go. It's not very often that an underground movement such as this is so well documented at the time, and that also is vital to making this such a great documentary.And lastly, Stacy Peralta has proven himself to be a renaissance man in his own right - from being a part of the original team to forming the biggest skate company in the world to being such a talented filmmaker - I can't wait to see In Search of Captain Zero. Even if you hate skateboarding (ESPECIALLY if you hate skateboarding), don't miss this. "},{"Title":"alienated kids create america's newest passtime","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  solid documentary about edgey kids who first surf then skate in the face of the american dream.  sadly some of the youngest and most gifted succumb to the lure of drugs while others become slaves to the crass marketing of their go for broke instincts.  few come out on top.  but the die is cast and fruit of it all is the new national pastime, skateboarding (the New York Times notes that it was once considered a snub to authority.  Now, however, skateboarding has its own summer camps, video games, magazines actually it always had these and corporate sponsors.)  commercialism co-opts another kid birthed cultural node. "},{"Title":"nostalgic look at skateboarding past","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I recently saw this film and being a skateboarder myself i thought it was great. Although i might have a bias because i am a skateboarder, i thought that this film had all the elements that a good documentary should. It showed how one tiny microcosm of less than 20 people could do something that would effect the world in such a big way. Although most people think that skateboarding is a pointless and insignificant sport, that is just done by burnouts with nothing better to do, it is untrue. In fact much of the worlds pop culture would be different if it weren't for skateboarding, and these men in particular. These men, managed to start a revolution by doing something that they loved, and this documentary shows that it wasn't for money, or fame, but it was just for the thrill of it all.  "},{"Title":"fascinating portrait of one cultural niche in a time of incredible looseness and freedom.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Watching this really brought back memories, having livedin Venice in the 70's, and Rollerskated the skate bowls(we were often made fun of and ridiculed by the regulars,I believe they called us Rollergaf's or something likethat) Anyways, this film is an extremely good example of howradical, pioneering, grungy, dangerous and loose that  decade was, which is something the 80's and 90's have  tried so hard to erase from history in this Neo-New-World- Order age of Sterile blandness, pointless pursuits and  overwhelming restrictions.  Of course no-one was aware of it then, it was just  reality. Venice and Santa Monica were decayed and run  down, rampant with gangs, hard-core crime, and tough  characters, but that was just an aspect of what GAVE the70's it's tremendous character. Does anyone remember whenthe Santa Monica Promenade was just an old dusty ghosttown full of closed down businesses with one cheap 49 cent theater? And there were no fences, no heavy restrictions  on things, can you imagine kids trying to skate in emptypools in this high-security, fear-riddled extreme  punishment era? Life was in the moment and pioneering atthat time, but no-one thought of it like that. What do wehave now days? Hopelessness.  "},{"Title":"A movie about what cool is, a movie about YOUR youth?","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I learned much more than about the history of modern skateboarding from this film.  It reminded me that, cool is not what you own, it's what you do.  That you can be cool with only a board with wheels.What these guys seem to know and not know simultaneously is that cool is individuality, that's it, that's all it can ever be. However, with the Z-Boys, being so gang like, some of that individuality was crushed, as in the case sad case of Jay Adams.One of surprising aspects of the film was how it could've been my buddies that they were filming, or your's or anybodies, just happens that the guys in the movie were on the vanguard of skateboarding, so their history was documented.  This gave me a weird sense that I was in a way watching a documentary on my own youth. "},{"Title":"This could be a spoof","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" The first half is very very hard going with all its immature self appraising drivel. You do really feel a little embarrassed to be watching middle aged men who really need to grow up harping on about how cool they were when they were 12. The first 40 minutes really should have ended on the cutting room floor. This film is just too self congratulatory and you gives the viewer the impression that these people have obviously done nothing else of any importance with the rest of their lives.The first and only sign of any depth in this self indulgent mefest is the interview with the tattooed jail bird with the collapsed septum, but the hope of something meaningful quickly disappears when the interviewer asks the guy a question that he'd just answered. The comparables of how they see them self are pure comedy, statements like 'it was like Joe Frazier knocking down Ali and we were an extension of society gimme a break. This could have been a great insight into a very small subculture, in a very small time frame in a very small town. The point of a good documentary is too enlighten the viewer about a subject he knows little about. The problem being is the protagonists involved in this farce are deluded enough to think the world see them in as high regard as they see themselves. The only feat of astonishment is how they have managed to maintain such big egos for over 30 years. I guess there is always another 12 year old ready to impress. Sean Penn does the voice over and by the end he sounded as bored as the audience and judging from the cough halfway through he couldn't be bothered coming back to do any retakes. "},{"Title":"Excellent Piece of work!","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Excellent Piece of work!I am not a surfer nor a skate board fan, but work this good about sorting sock drawers would have been riveting. A must see!There is a lot to enjoy here. Excellent Visuals. Great sound track mix. Huge body of documentary work both pictures and film.The life work and love of the subject is captivating.  "},{"Title":"Well Done!","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Take a subject I didn't know much about and make it exciting, why don't you? It so happens that back about 1979, director Robert Altman said that he didn't believe he had ever made a real movie and that he expected that one of these kids riding skateboards--if he doesn't break his neck--will make the first movie. Well, I wouldn't put such an expectation on Stacy Peralta, but he is a skateboarder who has made a good movie. Of course, he was forced by the nature of the film he was making to use existing footage, and it is certainly a good thing that so much archival footage existed. Peralta edited it together well with not-your-usual talking head shots of his erstwhile colleagues as they are today. The whole effect is post-modern in the best sense, but that has been done. Altman's prediction hasn't quite come true. What Peralta has done, however, is capture enough of the energy of those heady days that we can appreciate what it must have been like when modern skateboarding was invented by the Z-Boys. This is all good. I highly recommend Dogtown. "},{"Title":"I knew nothing about skate boards before I went to see this...","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I have never seen my local arthouse cinema filled with teenage kids wearing baggy jeans, hooded tops and vans sneakers until tonight! Documentary films rarely attract a big audience but tonight was different.I knew absolutely nothing about skateboarding before I went to see this although I had heard of the Zephyr team from my distant past.Most of my childhood was spent on bmx bikes (early 80's) and we had similar experiences looking for places to ride (jumping fences to local factories as they had a big hill to get rad on, and using old doors and barrels to make huge ramps). I just loved the innocence of the whole skateboarding thing portayed in this documentary. It's a pity there are no outdoor swimming pools anywhere in the north east of England as I'm sure we would have been doing the same thing as these loons! The soundtrack to this movie has got to be the best I have ever heard, it sounded so contemporary even though the tunes are over 25 years old. Sabbath, Ted Nugent, Alice Cooper, Hendrix and T-Rex all sounded as fresh as if it was Limp Bizkit, Korn or Slipknot. I would recommend this movie to anyone, even if you have no interest at at all in skateboarding, it's a life affirming 90 minutes.   "}{"Title":"The Pool Is Empty","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  This documentary ain't exactly Sorrow and the Pity. I don't know much about skateboarding, and so I found some of this movie informative, and some of the footage from the 1970s was fairly cool to watch. But ... the movie was twice as long as it needed to be (and it was only 90 minutes long), the self-congratulatory tone was off-putting, and there's just only so much I can take of middle-aged guys talking about how rad they were back in the day. Ultimately, this thing is as much a promo film for Vans as it is a serious consideration of skate culture. I'd give it a five on a scale of ten. For most of the film, the best thing about it is the soundtrack of hard rock classics, but even that falls apart at the end, when the music suddenly switches to what sounds suspiciously like porn-film music outtakes. "},{"Title":"Rad dude, awesome, excellent...whatever!","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" One may need an acquired taste to sit through this movie. Just like one needs to love beer to be an alcoholic. It doesn't make it any less interesting, just tough to get to grips with.Shot in TV-style documentary, it is odd this should get a theatrical release, but who cares? The movie is about a Seventies ghetto neighbourhood in L.A. and how kids turn the ruins of past architectural mistakes into something useful...for them.There are burnt down piers to surf through, concrete basins to skateboard in and empty pools to seize and claim for themselves. The kids are almost tribal in nature, sharing hatred towards outsiders, never splitting up and helping each other out. They have nothing in their life but skating and surfing, no future or plans.Chance comes in the form of skateboard competitions and some of the kids are catapulted to fame, while others make wrong choices and turn to drugs and partying.And that's about it, really, but it does hold your attention for 90 minutes. All the documentary clichs are here. Rapid fire cuts, grainy black-and-white shots when interviewing people and a gazillion Seventies tracks. But with such an elitist subject matter, this kind of film-making is essential to make the movie appeal to the masses, or, at least, smaller groups of people.No doubt, Trouble TV-watching, baggy pants, text message generation, middle class kids, trying to be street, will love it. Me? I say it's good to watch once, to help understand an unavoidable culture. "},{"Title":"Skaters self indulge","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" A friend of mine told me that I had to see this film. He is no longer my friend. I can't believe this film got any critical praise at at all. There is nothing innovative about the editing, cinematography or narration in this run of the mill documentary about a group of people who may have revolutionized skating, but can't get over themselves because of it. I would recommend this film only to someone who wanted to hear a bunch of burnt-out skate rats talk about how cool they are for 2 hours. Note to the Z boys, legends are made, not self-proclaimed. I only hope the film tanks too so the world can say goodbye to this amalgam of meglomaniacal darshbags. "},{"Title":"great piece of popular American culture","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" In 1975, Craig Stecyk wrote a series of articles about Zephyr Skateboard Team and an area of California called Dogtown. It's a rundown seedy seaside area where former amusement parks had fallen into ruins. In 1972, Jeff Ho, Skip Engblom, and Craig Stecyk set up a surf shop in Dogtown. They were the rebels of the surfing culture and gathered a group of hungry local kids. Then new wheels allow the kids to skateboard while the waves are down.The style is functional to edgy rock indie. Sean Penn is giving a flat performance as the narrator. The best part of this is watching from people on the inside who were there at the time. It's a fascinating piece of popular culture in a fascinating place. It's an interesting doc for not just surfers and skateboarders. "},{"Title":"Dogtown and Z-Boys","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" One of my all-time favorite docs is unconventional (as the subjects focused on) in its approach (as Sean Penn is narrating he coughs, and director Peralta left it in there) and snobbishly grants an elitism to its stars who were groundbreaking influences in the popular skateboarding thriving today, giving birth to what populates the X-games and skateparks globally now. From broken or dysfunctional home lives and families, a group of surfing kids and teens gathered together as a collective in a poor area in California near the beach (Venice and Santa Monica), mentored by surf-board makers/marketers forming the Zephyr team, they would emerge as pioneers who demolished the traditional methods quite pass as they derived from the fallen collapse of skateboarding in the 60s and brought new moves/style to the sport. Revolutionaries with lots of ego, attitude, personalities, and edginess, these kids would soon move into their own individual paths (some to fame, others to obscurity), leaving behind the Zephyr team which saw the company end prematurely. Dogtown and Z-Boys has great music, some delightful archival footage and photos that bring vitality and energy to an era that lives on in the adults who once were those innovating, skilled boarders/surfers during the 70s, and lively interview subjects grandly reliving the past and acknowledging how it felt and what they were like at the time. Most tragic is Jay Adams' story as he was considered the most talented among the group and because of drugs, the skateboarding skill was squandered and he never benefited from what he contributed to the sport. Stacy Peralta being a part of that whole scene and having nurtured the sport on the skateboard and talent who followed after him has a keen insight on the subject and area where the Zephyr team honed their craft. The Dogbowl, Zephyr's first competition, and the pool invasions during California's major drought where the skateboarders snuck in to homes and took to their back yard pools all are significant highlights. A detailed history of Venice and Santa Monica, surf/skateboard culture, the kids who would later define a brand new way to look at skateboarding, and the 70s for which the subjects existed enrich the documentary. I totally dig pretty much everything about it. The approach Peralta incorporates is rather similar to who and what he is documenting messing with film (speeding it up or backwards, disrupting a flow of information by applying a new chapter just as an interview is ending, or leading montages whenever he sees fit) and/or flooding the doc with lots of interviewees and images/action in rapid succession. But this film always stays on point these people are highly regarded and appreciated. Alva, Adams, and Peralta are the skateboarders with the most focus, while the Zephyr founders and those fortunate enough to be a part of this amazing experience get their just do to a lesser extent. The back slapping is constant so if you don't like seeing these people comment on how awesome each other are, Dogtown and Z-Boys might just annoy/bother you. "},{"Title":"An interesting watch.","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" For those of us who are old enough to remember the impact on the sport, &,know of what we speak...these guys re-energized the sport.I'd been f'ing around on a skateboard since I was about 7 or 8.But when I picked up my first issue of Skateboarder mag I was turned on to a whole new way of riding.And these guys were the first wave of vertical/surf style riders. The only thing was that all we had to go on were photos.So we had to figure out how to get to the point of having that one wheel on the coping...and then how to get back down without losing it.We weren't able to see the whole completed move.We never even knew if THEY were really pulling off some of that stuff.To watch this & be able to SEE them riding was still a rush for me LONG after I'd given up riding.In retrospect,it's easy to view them as being bitter.But when you put aside all of the personality issues...These guys did for skating what Zeppelin did for Rock.And you can only fully appreciate that if you were there.For TRUE skate fans...this is a history lesson. "},{"Title":"If you like documentaries you should see this film.","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" This is an excellent documentary about the pioneering 1970s Zephyr skate boarding team. They were called the Z Boys and they came from Santa Monica, CA. The team totally revolutionized skate boarding and made it both a true sport and also an art. The film details the origins of the team. It also shows where their moves came from. I certainly agree with the Grammy nomination for best compilation soundtrack. Check out the great clip played during the credits. It sounds like a multi-instrumental homage to one of the great surf guitarists, but it's not done by a group that you would expect ... you'll see. The film really draws you in. If you like documentaries you should see this film. Besides the Z Boys there is also commentary from Tony Hawk and Henry Rollins. What more could you want? "},{"Title":"Z-Boys' Up-from-the-Bootstraps History","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" A dozen bored surfers, mostly kids in Venice, California, not only reinvent the skateboard but remake a once-forgotten-about suburban fad from the 1950s into an action sports revolution.Narrarated by Sean Penn, Dogtown depicts life in the more rundown Locals Only beach communities circa 1974, which consisted of mostly of surfing in the early morning tides and loitering. The Zephyr Team (or Z-boys as they are called) spend one summer combating the boredom by building their own boards with the help of a local who owns a surf shop. After they enter re-emerging skateboarding competitions in SoCal, they transfigure it all into their own scene; one that rouses a generation of skateboarders consisting of greats like Tony Hawk, Shaun White and the creators of the of X-Games.Dogtown puts chronological perspective into skateboarding, and the up-from-the-bootstraps history you never knew it had.from Andy Frye at MySportsComplex.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"The pools are empty, but these Z-Boys give us an Endless Summer...","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" I hate films about sports. I guess the pre-fabricated Hollywood sports film is a bit tough for me to swallow because it follows the most identical of ideas each year, what I am trying to say is that there isn't much creativity in this genre. Use exhibit A &#150; The Game Plan as evidence of this if you want. So, needless to say, I was hesitant to watch this documentary because of the sports theme element, but at the same time I couldn't wait because I love surfing documentaries like Step into Liquid and Billabong Odyssey. I took a step, I plunged into the unknown, and to be honest, at first I wasn't happy. I didn't like the direction, the people, or the style that the film encompassed to present these young sport entrepreneurs. With my first viewing, I thought that history couldn't be fully recorded, so I thought Stacy Peralta was splicing stock footage with faux-actors acting like they were from the late 70s. The music was intense, it matched well Peralta had made a mixed tape from this generation for our enjoyment, but the visuals were anything but stimulating. The elongated scenes, while using amazing music to support, just seemed flushed and too long for my attention. I wanted to get to know the pioneers, not just watch them skate for ten minutes in an empty pool. I wanted a combination of who these kids were, where they went during their rise of fame, and where they are now. It felt like I was watching the birth of our nation with a great score to the settlers just rowing their boats all day. I wanted to know the men behind the myths.Then, with a thought that I would have another negative review under my belt, I watched the film again with Peralta's audio commentary. His passion, his voice, his knowledge of the people and what he had to do to get this film accomplished wow-ed me. This suddenly transformed into the film I wanted to see. Peralta lets us know more of where these kids are today, what they are still doing, and how difficult it was to get some of them onto the camera. He hadn't seen many of them in 20+ years, so to hear these challenges brought the human element back to the surface. He was sincere; he was sympathetic, yet he showed so much dedication to this project. While I do not agree with everything that he chose to do (i.e. the Sean Penn mess up is not PUNK ROCK), he revitalized this film for me. It was due to this commentary that I rate this film much higher than originally thought.Jay Adams. Tony Alva. Jeff Ho. Peggy Oki. Wentzle Ruml. These are just a few of the name that need to be mentioned, and continually praised, if skateboarding is to continue the fast growing trend that it currently sees. While Tony Hawk's name sells products, it is these guys, these mild-mannered pavement slackers that redefined an entire sport. Sure, others were probably doing it in the stone ages, but these guys did it with style, grace, and moved it to the next level. This was a hobby for them, but it also propelled them in a direction I believe none of them were ready for. Dogtown and Z-Boys is the story of evolution, being in the right place at the right time, living in a generation without televisions to keep us planted, and about friendship. We have seen so many stories during the years that show the progression of humanity, and this is definitely a story that should be added to that. I cannot say that I loved this film, nor will I, but it should be standard viewing for everyone learning or wanting to experience the growth of the skateboarding trend. It was sad, it was emotional, and these guys aren't multi-millionaires over again &#150; they are people with a passion, and very rarely do you see that in documentaries.Overall, I cannot watch this film again, but I will suggest it to friends and family time after time. I think the downfall for this film, to me, was the filming &#150; the attempts to be avant-garde with the style, which ultimately drew away from the characters and events. As mentioned before, there were some elements that dragged on too much, which left us with little to no time to know where these guys were now. Peralta obviously had a passion for this sport, for the people, but he seemed out-of-focus at times. The music was intense, and worked perfectly with the film. Sean Penn, while he was decent with his voice-over, wasn't needed at all. They could have spent the money elsewhere. On the positive, the audio commentary captures everything that the regular film was missing. Peralta's voice, instead of Penn's, brings a stronger human element to the scene, while he tells us better stories of the people, places, and events. Watch this film, but don't expect to be blown away. Listen to the audio commentary; I think you will be impressed.Grade ***  out of ***** "},{"Title":"Cuts close to the bone","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Right there. Good, entertaining and accurate era-feel to most scenes. Enough personality variations to cover the real people around those days without story distractions from the exceptions. The credits show Peralta from Mar Vista, California.. up the hill from Venice and south of Malibu. I lived there in the Heartbreak Hotel days, pre-Beachboys, next to that surfer kid Bob Cooper up on Wasatch Avenue, where the alley was used to burn surfboards that didn't work. Old skatekey skatewheels were used on plywood cutouts to roll down sidewalk waves. Things were different in each succeeding decade as the cool innocence of the fifties broke into the Warmth of the Sun whitewater freedom and exhilaration of the electric sixties and then into the assertively innovative playtime and inventive evolutionary madness of the weird seventies. The movie gives you a piece of that kind of magic moment in time; in a place where the imaginary wave was real.. the source of culturally significant influences. And BTW, there's another movie that has a similarly American street edginess to it, and has the same genuinely unique goodness with laid back realness that helps refine that elusively eternal sense of cool.. Two Lane Blacktop (with one of the best examples of freesouldoit attitude in West Coast California history.. Dennis Wilson). Like Monte Hellman did with that one, thanks, SP, for being right there with this one. GWR "}{"Title":"Great footage, historical moments in the world of skateboarding.","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Actually, I have more a question, than a comment. I loved Z-Boys, and The Lords of Dogtown. Saw Lords first, then the doc, and while I loved the story, I am curious as to why in the movie, Sid was an important character, but in the documentary, he wasn't part of the team, and only merely mentioned as just some kid they knew. Does anyone know the story on that? The story of these boys was amazing. I never experienced the skateboarding craze where I grew up, but my kids have enjoyed it. What I have seen in local skate parks is what these boys had invented. I never knew that. When the film showed the competition, and Z-Boys did their thing, they put to shame the others in competition. "},{"Title":"Oddly Engaging","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" This is a pretty good documentary. I'm not a skateboarder, I don't particularly like skateboarding or skateboard culture. But somehow for about 2 hours this movie made me interested in the subject.I wouldn't call it the most intriguing film of all time, but for some reason when those guys were talking about how they started their skateboard clubs and were skating in those empty Southern California pools, I was interested.I should also add that the music in this film was pretty good too. I don't sit around yearning to hear more 70s rock bands, but it seemed appropriate for what they were talking about. "},{"Title":"Greatness...","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" I must say that this has to be the best documentary I have ever seen in my life. I first say the movie at my friends house, and didn't get a chance to finish watching it. From that point on, I spent my free time trying to find the movie. I never found it, but on my birthday, my friend who knew I had the hardest time finding the movie,got it for me as present. Sean Penn does a great job of narrating the documentary. I loved how it told the story of each of the Z-Boys and the history of Dogtown. I have been to Venice and the surrounding area many times, and had never known what had taken place, until I saw the documentary. I didn't get a chance to see the actual movie, and I heard it was nowhere near what the documentary was. I don't know if I actually want to see the movie, but who knows. "},{"Title":"Ride the Concrete Wave(and the surf wave)","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" This movie was awesome. It's a documentary about how surfing influenced skateboarding in the early days. It has interviews with skaters such as Tony Hawk(my idol)=), and Stacy Peralta to name a couple. Dogtown is a so called ghetto part of California, where there used to be an amusement park that was torn down. People started riding alongside the dangerous ruins of the park. Soon, the Zepher Surf team was formed. That led to Skateboardings first real start in Dogtown. The Z boys were a team of ragtag teenagers who loved skateboarding and started the phenomenon known as vert skating. They started it by skating in drained swimming pools. That's just a bit of the story behind it. It even contains rare footage from Charlie's Angels of Stacy Peralta making a cameo. I think you should buy this movie if you are a skater. It'll teach you that skateboarding wasn't always popular. Even if you are not, BUY! "},{"Title":"Surreal. Loved the detail.","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" When the Bicentennial hit, I was in Hershey, PA and part of the Middletown Skate Team. We didn't do anything except skate around trying to learn what we were reading in the pages of Skateboarder Magazine. A couple of local hills provided all the speed-wobbles you could handle. At the time Mike Weed was the hot stuff, along with Russ Whats-his-name, with the Z-boys hot on their tail. I had a GT (GrenTech) plastic board with Power Paw urethane wheels (loose bearings).My parents told me we were moving to California later that year and that they were taking a trip to go house-hunting. I was an extremely good son that summer and asked if I might not be rewarded with a REAL skateboard from California. They delivered. It was a fiberglass deck with the Surfer Magazine logo screened on it. Wide trucks and big red wheels (precision bearings, don't ya know). They got it at Oak Street, a surf shop in Laguna Beach.When I got to California (all of 13), Anaheim had the Concrete Wave and Carlsbad had a great park as well. Soon came Skateboard Odyssey in Mission Viejo. An indoor park with every scenario imaginable. All the while I was reading about Stacy, Shogu, Tony and Jay. This flick was right on the money and a wonderful experience to watch. "},{"Title":"What an amazing ride...","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Not only was this film exhilarating, but it took me back down memory lane with its true to life sound track. These were the things we were saying, and doing...these were the songs we were listening to...all during this same time period, in the same era, way down south in Alabama. I may not have been one of the skateboard set, but I was definitely one of the observers, sitting on the curb with the old transistor radio, listening to Neil Young, watching those more brave than I ever hoped to be, as they put the spin on their surfboards on wheels, applying the tricks of Alva and Adams, hoping that maybe, just maybe for a brief moment, they'd adopt the Zephyr style. It just goes to show how much alike we all were during those wonderful days. ~ KLJ "},{"Title":"a cinematic anthropology of pop culture never felt so exhilarating!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" To regard the film as nothing more than a documentary about skateboarding would fail to recognize several important aspects of Dogtown. Peralta (a well- known skateboarding figure himself) has crafted a film that not only deals with the birth of what we know today as skateboarding, but also examines the socio- cultural and economic circumstances in which this sport emerged and gained wide appeal. In addition, his film is rather personal Peralta's first-hand association with this cultural phenomenon serves as both the informed cinematic investigator and the involved participant-subject. In this role, he is a quintessential participant-observer, while gathering together a wide array of personalities whom were integral to this movement and those who were profoundly affected by the advent of skateboarding as a competitive sport and subculture. The film employs a uniquely stylistic form of film and sound editing, and the narration (by Sean Penn) and interviews adopt a rather genuine, unrehearsed form that is akin with the anarchic, nihilistic spirit of sidewalk surfing. The film exhibits the kinetic appeal of a protracted sporting, music video tempered with an archaeologist's sensitivity to the importance of time, place, and circumstance. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" This movie is for all the skateboarding fans out there. This movie offers an insightful view of how the skateboarding scene developed from the 1970's to the present day.The crew of Z-Boys, which formed in the 1970's all give their opinion, in which they all describe how they have been born and bred on skating and surfing.This film is very educational, and goes to state that without them, there would be no skating today, and we wouldn't have the resources that we do.Tony Alva saw it all and began to make his skating company,Alva Skates, in which he designed and put to production, his own line of skate decks and accessories.this film comes with some great footage, which gives you a really good feel of how skating took a journey upwards to how it is today.There are some insightful interviews from most of the Zephyr Skate team, and from some well known characters which make up todays society, including Tony Hawk and Henry Rollins, in which they describe their experiences growing up when skateboarding was dominating the streets.Chris Cahill, as you will see from the film was last seen in Mexico, his current whereabouts are unknown.Overall, i think this is an excellent film, and one that should be shown for generations to come, due to its very helpful insight, newcomers to the skating scene would instantly appreciate the work that the Dogtown and the Z Skating team did for todays skating generation.The members outline how their lives changed with skating, and how they would spend days perfecting tricks, which were mostly inspired through surfing manoeuvres, as the years progressed, and the equipment produced for skating was advancing, new tricks were invented, and slowly became what we see as skating today.10/10 for this one, the way the documentary is presented, and the soundtrack used, really contributes to the overall viewing pleasure of this film, not to mention the interesting footage used, in which we, in a sense progress with the skaters, as they describe what they are doing, and the tricks become more advanced and professional as the years pass. "},{"Title":"Radical Flashback Dude","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" I am forty three years old and originally from Virginia Beach,Va. (Navy Brat). For me, 1975-1980 my whole life was skateboards and waves. I saw a lot of my heroes in this film and all the music in the soundtrack marked my generation. It was a trip back to a time of freedom. A real trip down memory lane man. This film is who I was and who I still am in many ways. I live inland now in Kentucky and miss the coast a lot. I will always be a beach bum at heart. The movie really grabs the attention of anyone who has lived the lifestyle. Yes it is and was a lifestyle. A whole culture that could be compared I guess to what the hip hop culture is to young people today. Long live the Z-Boys and girl. "},{"Title":"DVD Special Features","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  This is a great Documentary and the film itself is great.  It shows the story of many skateboaders who were idolized by those skaters who grew up in the '70s and '80s.  While I found the movie itself extremely entertaining, it was the alternate ending that got me.  Tony Alva in a pool in 2000 this was awesome to me.  He may be slower, with a bit less edge, but it was still great.  The only thing I can thin to compare it to, is what it must have been like to see Willie Mays, nearing the end of his career, playing the outfield for the New York Mets.  I was just a shell of what he once was, but the glow is still there, and that to me was beautiful.  This is a must see feature of the DVD for anyone who considers themselves a skate fan. "}{"Title":"Good on many levels.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" This film is an absolute must for anyone who lived through this time-period, or who skates now and is interested in the history (and origins of the attitude) of skating.  As a kid with a skateboard (and eventually a half-pipe and a skate-park) during this period every image and name in this movie hits home.  What seem like exaggerations of the significance of this story matches perfectly with how it was told at the time. Up here in Canada we watched the lives of these guys with intense interest through nothing but the still photography in Skateboarder magazine, and really had no idea if any of it was based in reality. We studied Skateboarder magazine so closely and obsessively, that we could quote the captions for any photograph and describe the clothes, boards, skaters, and pools as though we had been there. When all of these images come to life on the screen it's quite a feeling ... I'd never seen most of these guys actually move before. (we never actually even knew if the photos we were looking at were a second before a fall, or whether the skater pulled it off  ... we also didn't care).Anyway, it's a nicely done film of an insanely documented era. It's a little heavy on the gimmicks (quick cutting in particular ... there were times when I wanted a scene to carry on a little longer instead of rapidly jumping from one to another).  The footage, however, is great and gives you a real feel of the time and place.  It's clear that the makers of the film are quite aware of the image that the audience has in their minds and they touch on all of the aspects of this business that were important to us at the time... smart. I guess the big question is  How does this play to someone who had nothing to do with skateboarding? ... I imagine it has far less impact and some of the personalities come across as baffling or irritating. (I mean, I'm willing to consider Jay Adams to be an enigmatic god-like figure, but who else would?) So, I recommend it, but not everyone is going to care.By the way ... two things that I expected to see weren't there ... the invention of forevers (going back and forth in the pool with losing momentum), and the introduction of the 10-wide board ... I guess nobody but a skateboarder would get that at all.        "},{"Title":"The Birth of Rad","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" This movie was great for several reasons.*It captured the curl of a counter cultural wave. The whole several-hundred-million dollar snowboard/X-games/everyone-at-Vail-wearing-baggy-outerwear thing came out of this group of skate punks from the Zephyr surf shop.* Great action footage..... Those surfing shots at the beginning (guys surfing through pier pilings ) were amazing. The Z-boys really did have fluid style, also. Not a lot of vert, mind you, as that didn't exist yet.*Fun soundtrack. Hendrix. The Stooges. Blue Oyster Cult. Pink Floyd.*Stylistically interesting, for a documentary. Intriguing use of  effects (fast forwards, fake film-melting, use of clips from Charlie's Angels to capture the 70's ethos.) The Z-boys attention to style has spilled over into Mr. Peralta's filmmaking.*It's a rare exposure in our youth oriented culture to see footage of the same people at 14 and 40 juxtaposed.   I'd really recommend this to parents *FOR THEIR TEENAGERS*. Jay Adams story--from precocious blonde skate punk to a convict is very compelling. He makes very clear his two big regrets are that he didn't stay in school and he got involved with drugs.   Much more convincing than 'just say no'.  "},{"Title":"Not just a cult movie","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  If you are under the impression that you need to be a skateboarding or surfing fanatic to love this movie you are wrong.  I've only been on a skateboard a couple of times in my life and my surfing experience is limited to wimpy old-guy boggie boarding, but I loved this movie.  A great example of a documentary capturing a time and spirit.  Great characters, great story.In particular, I would urge fellow LA coastal dwellers (esp. Santa Monica down the South Bay) to watch this movie for a history lesson of our neighborhood.  I will wear my Venice Pride T-Shirt with even greater pride now! "},{"Title":"A unique film, not to be missed--","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Every so often we see a film that we thought of little, or not at all, but when we see it we can't imagine not ever having seen it.  The Wizard of Oz, Pulp Fiction, and Repo Man come to mind, as do Sling Blade and Seven Samurai, Juliet of the Spirits and Shoah.Dogtown and Z Boys is one of those films.  A documentary of sorts that was captured unselfconsciously as it was evolving, meditated on in disparate afterlives.  Incredible grace and energy, and unforgettable memories of youth.  See this on the big screen if you possibly can. "},{"Title":"Wow...thanks Stacy","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  It's really hard to know what to say about this film. I had forgotten how filled my head used to be with my skating fantasies and the lives of the bad boyz from Dogtown as viewed from the pages of Skateboarder magazine. Most of the myriad of still photos shown in the film were familiar to me and immersing myself in that time and place again really brought me vividly back to a special time in my childhood. I have no perspective on how people who weren't into skating back then will respond to it. I'm sure if you like stories of hard-edge youth culture you'll probably like it. But for anybody like me who at one time lived for a dry pool and the next issue of Skateboarder, this movie is like a powerful drug. I was lucky to meet another guy having a similar reaction outside the theater and we sort of talked each other down from the strange high.If the name Tony Alva brings a knowing smile to your face...you MUST see this film. "},{"Title":"not great","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Had some fun, interesting moments but all in all, pretty average.  The movie was spoiled by t.v. and trailer ads.I would only recommend this movie to people who havent seen the ads, or are really big skateboard enthusiasts.  "},{"Title":"Old school skate heaven!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  This film contains some of the most amazing old school skate footage I've ever seen.  As a skate-boarder myself, it was great to see the birth of the sport and view some of the talented people who helped make the sport what it is today. The thrill of actually seeing skating on the-big-screen was almost as moving as the real life story of fame, fortune and tragedy portrayed.  A great documentary, my only criticism was that there wasn't enough of it! Anyway, strongly recommended for anyone interested in seeing people putting their dreams, hopes and ambitions into actions.  Also, skaters, check out some of that old school trick stuff - brilliant.  "},{"Title":"An essential film that exposes the true roots of skatebording.","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I can't say enough good things about this film. Not only does it expose the true roots of modern day skateboarding it also captures the look and feel of  that amazing point in history. Mountain Dew and the X Games should cut big fat checks to all of the Z Boys for defining the word extreme. "},{"Title":"ENDLESS SUMMER; WAYCOOL BUDS","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  DOGTOWN AND Z-BOYS (2002) ***1/2 Jay Adams, Tony Alva, Bob Biniak, Paul Constatnineau, Shogo Kubo, Jim Muir, Peggy Oki, Stacy Peralta, Nathan Pratt, Wentzle Rumi, Allen Sarlo, Tony Hawk.  Waycool documentary by legendary skateboarding ace Peralta chronicling the origins of the original extreme sport with vintage Super 8mm home movie archival footage, black & white stills, and assorted media combining with a classic rock and roll score to form a comprehensive and obvious valentine to a way of life.  Gravity defying gravitas is captured like lightning in a bottle showing the wayfarer scruffy charisma and authority-defying nonchalance that has a visceral thrill in watching underdogs become cult heroes.  Excellent portrayal of unbridled angst, anomie and pure adrenaline rushes from curling on a wave from the prototypical surf in the Pacific Ocean to the concrete playgrounds of abandoned suburban pools.  Narrated by perfect choice, Sean Penn, The Artist Formerly Known As Spicoli.   "},{"Title":"The most important skateboard film EVER!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  This documentary should not be missed by anyone who has ever ridden a skateboard or a surfboard. Hell, this movie shouldn't be missed by anyone at all. A raw film that explores the rebirth of skateboarding in the 1970s. How surf style influenced a diverse team of surfer/skaters in the Santa Monica area and gave birth to the modern era of skateboarding. We see these kids grow from broken-home teenagers to rockstar skateboarders, and how the success and fame was inspiring for some, and devastating for others.The editing and style of the film reflects the raw nature of the people and events it covers. Sean Penn's narration (which was donated free of charge) is excellent, and the interviews are in depth and unforgiving. The real prize of this movie is the amazing super8 footage of the birth of pool skating. Peralta drew from over 40 sources to compile this footage, some of which was shot in the 70s and not processed until the making of this film. The soundtrack is fantastic, with Hendrix, Pink Floyd, the Stooges, and other amazing tracks from the era. This film is more than nostalgia, it is an important document of the birth of modern skateboarding. I'm glad the anti-heroes like Tony Alva, Jay Adams, and Peggi Oki might finally get the recognition and respect they deserve as pioneers of style. Many people devoted a lot of time and energy to get this movie made, not to make a profit, but for the love of the subject. Vans shoes put up production money and Sony Pictures Classics has done a tremendous job in distribution, promotion, and support of a project that could easily have slipped-by. See Dogtown and skate forever! "}{"Title":"The first REAL rockumentary!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  This film was a Midnight Madness showing on the opening weekend of the 2001 Toronto Film Festival.  I hadn't been planning on taking in originally, but circumstances led me to it, and I'm very glad that they did.  It may technically be a documentary, but in my book, it's the first REAL rockumentary -- a documentary that truly ROCKS instead of merely chronicling a rock band.The subject is the birth of skateboarding as a cultural phenomenon in the mid 70's and the key role that a rough-and-tumble surfing gang (the Zephyrs) that sprung up around a counterculture surfing shop in a rundown area of Santa Monica (Dogtown) played in elevating the activity above a mere fad.  Out of this small group emerged a whole new style of skateboarding and the first wave of skateboarding superstars (who were quickly co-opted by commercial interests and drifted apart).The film is a collaboration between one of the original members of the gang, Stacy Peralta, and Craig Stecyk, a prominent writer with the early Skateboarder magazine.  They were both on hand for the show, as was another member, Tony Alva.  According to them, a major studio is planning to film a drama on the group, and they wanted to get THEIR take on the story out for people to see before it gets the Hollywood treatment.  To their credit, it doesn't seem particularly self-congratulatory (although some of the group's less-than-legal activities are definitely airbrushed over).Even if you're not a skateboarding enthusiast -- and that would include me -- this is a film that you can't help getting caught up in.  (If you ARE a skateboarder -- and there was a large contingent of them at the screening -- you'll go positively NUTS for it.)  It's got what may very well be the greatest rock soundtrack EVER -- Peralta circulated a 3-1/2 minute short of clips from the film around the music industry, and even classic 70's bands who are notoriously stingy with their works (e.g. Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd) wanted in.  The result is wall-to-wall killer music, with the film brilliantly edited to the cuts (rookie editor Paul Crowder sure won't be hurting for work in the future).  Even the talking heads sections rock. Right from the opening scene, where you see a skateboarder approaching to the opening chords of Jimi Hendrix's Ezy Ryder, this is a film that's comin' at ya!It rocks, it soars, it informs effectively, it's dripping with 70's nostalgia, and it tells an upbeat story grounded firmly in reality about a ragtag bunch of lower class kids who were instrumental in launching a major phenomenon on their own terms (at least initially).   Definitely a documentary for movie fans who normally eschew the genre altogether. Horatio Alger for Gen X.  "},{"Title":"I'm going out to buy a skateboard now.","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Excellent! I loved this film!Although I've never set foot on a skateboard, I thought this documentary was fantastic.  It didn't assume knowledge of skateboarding and the whole 70s California skating scene, but at the same time provided lots of stuff to keep the avid skate fans entertained, with lots of oohing and ahing from audience as several legendary skaters and surfers were featured in the film.The use of old footage and photos was top rate, with the music especially creating a real sense of atmosphere.  One thing I really loved was how in the interviews with the original Z-boys it fast forwarded between grabs, rather than cutting - pretty cool indeed.Apart from the downfall of Jay Adams part, which i thought was a bit overdone, this film was brilliant "},{"Title":"This film is great...","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  If you know anything about the emerging west coast skateboard scene of the mid-70s - or even if you don't - you'll love this documentary.  It captures a moment in time perfectly through use of rare stock footage and excellent photo stills.  A key role in this films success is found in its soundtrack - Zeppelin, Sabbath, Alice Cooper, Rod Stewart and many more.  The interviews are well paced and keep the piece moving. There are moments of great joy and saddness, held together by Sean Penn's sutle narration.  I heard there are plans to bring this to the big screen - the Boogie Nights of skateboarding!  Can't wait.  Find this movie and check it out. "},{"Title":"Blakespot Reviews Dog Town and Z-Boys","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" Dog Town and Z-Boys, 6/10, 23rd best of 2001 164th in the 2000's, 525th all time I've been enjoying a high number of documentaries lately, and this one certainly has plenty to enjoy. It's shot beautifully, flows very nicely, and at least for me the subject mater was pretty interesting. I think this movie might have been ranked more highly had I not already seen Lords of Dogtown, which tells pretty much the same story in a non-documentary foremat. I enjoyed Lords of Dogtown quite a bit more purely based on the fact that its just more fun to watch. If documentaries are your thing I'd say go with this, otherwise just stick with Lords of Dogtown. Unless your a big skating fan, or like me you've got time on your hands, than you might as well watch them both. "},{"Title":"Excellent Photography","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" While channel surfing, (no pun intended) I caught the beginning and was compelled to continue watching. I was intrigued to see and hear their stories unfold, with music and photography in a very unique way. These are real people who love what they do. They took awesome photographs from the 70's with video clips set to music and tell a true story. It's very well done, you won't be disappointed, this movie is time well spent and gives you a new outlook for the sport of surfing and skate boarding. It also gives you a brief history lesson about California. It mentions schools, and beaches you'll be sure to visit if you ever go to California. I don't surf or skate, but I give it an 8. Two Thumbs Up!! Justbecause "},{"Title":"Probably more enjoyable if your'e a surfer/skateboarder","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  As a present-day surfer and, in my youth, a skateboarder, this movie captured my interest. An entertaining exploration of the direct evolution of skateboarding from surfing in California. I found the Z boys' recollections of the aggressive localism in the surf a bit over the top. You don't need to throw blocks of cement and glass at non-locals to get more waves superior skills and local knowledge is usually enough to guarantee the inside section and right of way on waves. After watching Dogtown, I will never complain again about the localism at Sydney beaches such as Maroubra and Narrabeen.  "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  *potential spoilers*This is a good little doco. If you like skating or surfing I would recommend watching it just to get an insight into the histories of these sports.I especially like the bit where these crazy new-school skaters go to the skate comp and are confronted with a flat square wooden area, i.e. a rink. They are used to thrashing apart empty pools and here is this skatecomp with nothing but flatness!.The surfing where they weaved thru the abandoned pier timbers was pretty cool too.It's just too bad many of them were such little b**tards. Amongst other things they laugh about how they vandalised cars, dropped concrete/glass onto outsider surfers, tied cans to cats tails etc etc. I get the feeling their egos were a little out of control.Worth a watch7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Window on the 70s","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  I'm not, and never have been, into skating or surfing, however I found this film entertaining.  The main appeals for me was as a window back on the 70s and onto a sub-culture before it became mainstream and commercialised.  It was great to see people just getting on with what they loved without the pay-cheque being an issue.  It was also interesting to see the very different trajectories that the Z-boys lives took after their commercial breakthrough, and I think more could have been made of this.  I'm sure other groups and individuals were just as influential, and should have been mentioned, but then I think the story that was being told would be lost in a general history of skate-boarding, which I don't think I would find that interesting.     On the down-side it did feel like a bit like a long advert / music video and that someone was going to try to sell me Z-boy t-shirt at the end.Overall, worth a watch for imagery  "},{"Title":"The 60's west coast dried up but the kids' imaginations didn't","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" This well-constructed and inspirational documentary is also quite remarkable; the great proportion of the film is compiled from homespun 8mm footage of the surfing and skating that is its subject. Shots of the boys riding the lip of a dessicated pool against the evening sun are appropriately akin to the phoenix bursting from the flames. Despite a ban on surfing and institutional derision both from legal surfers trying to instigate calculated elegance in nascent skating, and society unimaginatively trying to keep the kids from doing something perceived as parasitic and ugly, an astonishing expressive sport blossoms. The Z team, as the gang of urchins becomes known, produce a bastard version of surfing in an unholy alliance with the principles of rock 'n roll and their illicitly snatched experiences in the dried up suburban swimming pools of the district. It's a great metaphor for the decade; and not without pathos. Not everyone involved in creating the wave got to ride it all the way to the present without wiping out.Luckily Steve Peralta doesn't fall into the trap of trying to attach a fake sentiment to this, but allows a discreet voice-over from Sean Penn to tie up the footage that, intercut with contemporary footage and interviews, allows the Daddy of urban 'sport' to speak with its own voice. 7/10 "},{"Title":"not a perfect documentary...","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  This isn't a perfect documentary.  although i was entertained, i think it could have somehow delved deeper into its subjects.  how?  i don't know, maybe revealing more of its seedy underbelly.  maybe interviewing the skater groupies of the era.i skated in highschool and college 1985-1989, so when these guys talk about how much fun it was, i can relate.i have to agree with the reviewer that stated Dogtown should have been half as long.  i felt like i was watching the same footage over and over again.  i also thought the camera movement on many of the photo montages was unnecessary, too quick and shaky.it was an entertaining documentary nonetheless.  i am looking forward to seeing STOKED, the documentary on 80s skater Mark Gator Rogowski.   "}{"Title":"blame the filmmaker, not the subject!","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  So I want to start by saying that I like skateboarding and skateboard culture, but I was hugely disappointed by Dogtown & Z-Boys.The film is so self-indulgent, it gets dull pretty quick. There's little objectivity here, and most of the time we're witnessing those involved patting themselves on the back, and it's pretty boring.No denying, these Dogtown kids had a huge influence on skateboard culture, and were both hugely talented and highly important figures, but frankly, this movie feels like it was made by them and for them. I can imagine that those without an interest in skateboarding culture would really find this a horribly unimaginative and uninspiring piece of filmmaking. I'm interested in it, yet I felt the same way too.The cut and paste we don't care punk rock style of editing is another annoying factor we've witnessed a million times before in lame MTV videos, so that doesn't help proceedings. Nor do I want to see some guy saying that a skater had the hardest life in the world just because he was a talented boarder who took too many drugs and got in trouble. That isn't a hard life. Try being a kid in a third-world slum who doesn't even have running water or a roof above his head... that's a hard life.So Dogtown & Z-Boys lacks perspective. It's a worthy subject that should've been handled better and in a more objective manner. It feels like everyone involved is way too self-congratulatory, and that's a shame because these important cultural figures instead come across as little arrogant brats who never really grew up... and I know for a fact that they're way more interesting characters than that. "},{"Title":"Tedious Glorification of a Bunch of Self-Impressed Halfwits","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Bleah.  Good soundtrack and a lot of visual inventiveness, but what an unworthy subject of study!  The fact that it was directed by one of its subjects makes the idolatry all the more nauseating.  Even if you can somehow summon up interest in this crew of losers, the documentary is badly structured...it follows a straightforward chronological narrative for what seems like a couple of hundred hours, and then just when you think maybe it's finally, mercifully over, it screeches to a halt and backtracks to profile two of the more obnoxious characters, in the process re-covering ground already excruciatingly trod.  The best thing I can say is that when I checked my watch, I found I'd only wasted only about 90 minutes of my life. It had seemed like much, much more. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, but....","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" The personalities involved are sad and rather boring people. Only Jay struck me as genuine. Plus, the way these guys talk about themselves?...Okay, you were really talented skateboarders...I don't think you truly inspired fear and awe in the eyes of all who came into contact with you. On the toughness scale, skateboarders probably rank a half a notch below Mormon Missionaries and one notch above wiffle ball junkies. I stayed fairly interested in this film because I am from this area and I thought it was kind of cool to see the history of my neighborhood. But I have to say, in all the time that I've lived here I've never heard anyone speak in reverent tones about our communities glorious Dogtown past. I've never even heard anyone refer to it as Dogtown. I've never heard the Z boys even mentioned. I tend to think this movie is attempting to create a mystique and a narrative that never truly existed to any real extent. "},{"Title":"Overdone, long, annoying editing style, nothing special","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" My first mistake was to have high expectations. Not even Sean Penn, or stylized editing mess, or classic super-8 skate footage can save this documentary from being a bit boring, and over-done.It looks like they dragged this film through some kind of MTV post processing effect - I think they pressed the make it look sic button in their editor. It could be that they were low on good raw footage, so needed to stetch it out with F**k with the footage effects.There was interesting and good looking old skate material, just not a lot. And what they had, they cut up and fried. Sean Penn's narration was flat n' lifeless, like either he didn't want to be there, or he didn't give a sh*t, or he can't narrate. Interviews were too long. Soundtrack was ok. Check it out if you want to see early skate footage where no-one really pulls any good tricks because no-one knew how! Pool skating is fun to watch, even when dressed up too much in AfterEffects effects.Too long. Re-edit, ditch Penn, show some modern skating for comparison, and it might have done better here. "},{"Title":"Sorry, but I don't know anything about skateboarding.","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" When you think about it, Dogtown and Z-Boys is the sort of movie that can only make sense to skateboarding fans. Since I don't know anything about skateboarding, the movie barely made sense to me. Obviously, Sean Penn as the narrator will catch anyone's attention (as will the Charlie's Angels scene), but other than that, non-fans will probably be confused.I should say that it wasn't a bad documentary. It's just that people who don't know much about skateboarding won't really be able to relate to it. So watch it if you can relate.This just might be a form of dogged determination. "},{"Title":"Innovative Style Suitable for Aggressive Youth Culture but Attention Unsustainable","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  Collecting historic footage, interviewing the legendary figures in black and white, panning/tilting/zooming rapidly and dynamically on edgy still photos, editing in fast pace. Dogtown and Z-Boys, a historical documentary of the LA skateboard scene, is all about style, which is innovative and appropriate for the argument. However, the film proves that any style cannot sustain the audience's attention for future length by itself. Roughly in the first half, the film chronologically follows the history, but after that it falls into a random collage and provides only an abstract image of the culture, failing to be an objectively accurate and historically informative document. "},{"Title":"by Samantha Pink","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":" I didn't really like the documentary because i'm not really into skateboarding. we got it just to see what the movie was like. ummmmmmm some of the movie was OK we had to watch it through school so really we had to see it. well thats about all i can think to comment on this movie. people who like skateboarding i would recommend this movie to. surfing people would probably like it to because it has bits to do with surfing. thats the only things that i liked about the movie. the documentary has lots of good camera angles and movie techniques in there and i think thats why we are watching it through school. like i said before some of the movie is OK. "},{"Title":"Hooligans ride their boards to.....where?","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Sport","Review":"  A group of teen-age punks with a burning need to ride a piece of wood with wheels run rampant through L.A. They let nothing get in the way of their sport which consisted of whizzing around on their boards getting low and grabbing air. Many of these kids came from broken homes and, having no supervision at all, were turned loose to waste their lives 'sidewalk surfing' while harassing others who came into contact with them. Some of these little thugs grew up and did alright; others formed their own broken homes, giving life to a new generation of castoffs, while one did a stint in the pen. Excellent documentary showing how lives can become a disaster when parents show no interest. "}]