[{"Title":"For what it is, a teen road movie, not as bad as many are claiming.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"109 out of 149 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I read all the reviews and comments before seeing Crossroads. Since I got it free from the public library, and time was my only investment, I'm not sorry at all. Roughly 50% of IMDb votes are 1 which is totally absurd. A more accurate rating is probably in the 4 to 6 range, compared to all similar films. Center Stage, where the central characters are dancers training to make it big in ballet, is a similar film.Other commentors say Britney Spears can't sing. Those comments are equally absurd. While I'm not particularly a fan of hers, she indeed can sing, very well. As a singer she is as good as most of the rest of the young singers who cater to the teeniebopper audience. She certainly is a better singer than Madonna who achieved her fame on image alone.Can Britney act? Compared to good young actresses, Britney is fairly amateurish. But she didn't have to stretch very far for the role of a proper, studious high school valedictorian who decided to look for her mother who abandoned her as a baby to be raised by her single father (Ackroyd). And, along the way write poetry which was then put to music by a young man who drove the three girls west to Los Angeles.Most of the situations and dialog are silly, and there are many close-range shots of a pretty, smiling Britney. However I suspect they would appeal to the under-15 crowd of Britney fans. I enjoyed the film from the point of view that it gave me some glimpse of the real Britney, one that is not revealed in her concerts and music videos. I believe, as she grows up and out of her former image, she will develop a more mature singing and acting style and will continue her popularity for a long time. (Year 2005 update I was wrong, she's become very strange! Year 2007 update She has gotten even more strange! Year 2008 update Even her little sister has become strange, and a new mother!!))Critic Ebert gives an accurate review of the facts in the case, I will not repeat them here. While I probably would not recommend this film to anyone, I personally enjoyed watching it. Not a very good film, still it also is not a bad film. Just juvenile. "},{"Title":"NO!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"121 out of 213 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Please don't waste your time on this movie.  The only people who may possibly like it are those people who think that Britney's music is brilliant.  And even those people can't deny that Britney can't act.  This movie lacked everything.  When you read the plot, it looks as though it could have some meaning to it, maybe even a little more than some other teen movies.  But it isn't so.  And it's so silly, like Britney's character writing that poem that turns out to be the lyrics to that stupid, ' not a girl, not yet a woman', whatever it is.  And then the guy writes music for it and she automatically starts singing along perfectly, she automatically knows the tune even though she hasn't heard it yet, and so forth.  And don't even get me started on the karaoke contest scene, the cover of I love rock 'n roll is a travesty.  This is another pitiful pop star attempt at being a movie star.  Doesn't work at all. "},{"Title":"Great horrible movie!","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"44 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I love Crossroads because it's so terrible. Definitely one of the best worst movies I've ever seen, it tells the story of how Britney Spears looks like a fashion model and acts like an angel while still managing to be the most unpopular girl at school. Sob, sob! Incredibly awful and idiotic drama coupled with sickeningly sweet romance make this one a not-to-be-missed...if you're the sort to love MST3K, that is. Sure, Britney can't act too well, but she can sing, and this movie is actually a LOT better than Glitter, Mariah Carey's similarly-themed vehicle. (And by better, I mean less boring and self-indulgent.) It's been two years since I saw Crossroads and I still remember it vividly. It's a cult classic--moronic, worthless, contrived, and hilariously awful. "},{"Title":"Oh, get over yourself and admit that this is a cute movie","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"37 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Out of all the people, I admit that I bash Britney Spears all the time. But I saw this movie because my 2 best friends and my boyfriend wanted to see this. And we actually thought this was a cute movie. And it's funny, our friendship is like the one in this movie. There's the sexy one, there's the smart one, there's the one who wants to make it big, and of course my boyfriend. Of course it's not oscar worthy, or the movie of the year. But it's cute. Kind of cheesy, but fun. So what if you're not a Britney Spears fan, if you hate this movie just because someone you don't like is in it, you have to be a pretty shallow person. So stop acting like you know everything about movies. I'm not a pre-teen, but I liked it. So like I said, just admit that it was cute. Like people are going to contact you and praise you for making fun of this movie.7/10  "},{"Title":"No no no no no no no no.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"93 out of 160 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  You just know a film is going to be bad when the line, We'll be friends forever is spoken. Yep, this film has that line, quite near the start in fact. The funny thing is, the film has absolutely no redeeming features at all. Cliched and uninspiring plot, acting that needs to be reported to the trades description act, and Britney Spears. She can't sing, she can't act. What more could I expect from a film that's advertised as The Britney Spears movie? Not even Dan Akroyd can save this piece of tripe. The two worst things? First of all, Britney Spears is clearly not a virgin, so stop pretending that she is. Second of all, the film implies that she actually has talent by showing her writing a song. This film should be buried in the desert, and the site at which it was buried should subsequently be nuked. Simply put, it is the worst film ever made. "},{"Title":"hey let's go watch another movie I'm right behind you this movies sucks","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"73 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Man when I was watching this movie at the theaters I was sure it was going to suck. Hardly anybody was inside watching the movie. And people warned us not to go in that movie room. The only reason why me and my friend watched it was because we had free tickets and, you guessed it, Britney Spears was in the movie. I tried so hard to like it but I hated it. The movie went on so slow in the beginning and their acting sucks and you can almost predict what's going to happen next. In about 45 minutes through the movie WE LEFT THE THEATERS AND WENT HOME. I was like, This movie isn't going to get better is it? and my friend said Let's go watch another movie. We didn't even watch another movie, we just left feeling miserable. "},{"Title":"Extreme Sugarchock","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I can't say that this film is worthless. It has got rather good lighting, make up and it's filmed OK, and the art direction isn't that bad.But I think that the plot was too predictable, the acting was simple and quite boring. Taryn Manning did OK, but the rest... it was just not impressive at any point. And I think everyone was trying to make Britney look better than she really was, complimenting her. Her character, Lucy, is too flawless. She was always perfect while the people who surrounded her had prominent flaws. And then in the commentary she went on about how every girl would be able to relate to her character, but wrong! No one is that flawless and covered in sugar. And I know you've got to see it for what it is, you don't go to see Crossroads if you are looking for a deep film, but even as a cute chick flick Crossroads didn't do very well. at all. It was shallow pretending to be genuine and deep. Even in the worst of girl films you need a point where it's getting serious - something to make it look real, you need to feel something.This whole movie is too SWEET. Everything about it is sweet.. the dialogs, the looks, the camera angles, the clichés, the music. It was like having 200 lbs of Chocolate, it was way too much. No one can handle that much sugar in one night... "},{"Title":"Not A Britney Hater","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"69 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, I have nothing against Britney Spears (except for the fact that she can't sing), so my trashing of this movie has nothing to do with the fact that Britney has the lead role. Although I will admit I only saw it to see how bad it was.The movie is so predictable I knew what was going to happen within the first fifteen minutes. I'm so glad I watched it at a friend's house and I didn't pay anything for it. The movie is boring because you know what is going to happen before it does. The girls travel with a 'hot' guy, and Lucy, the virgin, really takes a liking to him. Gee... I wonder what is going to happen?I will give the movie some credit, however. Not all the acting was bad, some of it was good. The characters had some kind of depth, and the movie attempts to hit mature issues like date rape. I would not recommend this movie to anyone, unless they were like me, and just wanted to be amused. "},{"Title":"I've seen a lot better, but I've also seen a LOT worse...","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Musicians trying to act in movies is nothing new. Madonna did it, Justin Guarinni did it, Kelly Clarkson did it, and most famously, Jennifer Lopez did it. In 2002, Britney Spears became yet another unfortunate statistic to the sad and growing tally of can't-act singers. Mauled by critics, Crossroads became a box office disappointment, and finally showed the world that an Oscar is nowhere in the near future for Mrs. Spears.Crossroads is definitely a stinker. The plot is so indescribably simplistic that a 6yr old could follow it. The element of Britney's character finding and confronting her AWOL mother is disastrously underdone. At other times, the acting is downright ridiculous and has some of the most uninspired direction I've ever seen (closeup, medium shot, closeup, medium shot, repeat 500 times). Judging from the lead actress, Crossroads is a film aimed at the preteen crowd so naturally it should have content which is suitable for that age group. So you can imagine how shocked I was at the whole plot line of Lucy trying to loose her virginity to some loser, the saga of her friend being raped by her other friend's fiancé, who gets pregnant, and then has a miscarriage by taking a header down a flight of stairs! Yes, this is all in the movie, folks!However, those saying it's the worst film of all time have really got to see more movies. This is because Crossroads is mildly amusing to follow despite it's Goliath sized flaws. I do admit I have a soft spot for the road trip genre, and the quirkiness of several characters and their offbeat adventures kept me somewhat entertained in a vanilla state. But despite this, Crossroads is not worth the DVD price. You're much better off using that money to see a better film currently in theatres.So next time you visit your local video rental place, I advise you skip this one. It's simple, and poorly made so it's really not worth your time. If it happens to be on cable, you might be amused but I'm sure you'll find yourself changing the channel not long after it starts. 4/10 "},{"Title":"It needs to be slapped - hard!","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"82 out of 155 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is a prime example of BAD movies. I watched it during a sneak-preview, and boy am I happy that I didn't have to pay for it.This is crap. It's so bad that I don't even know where to start. The only good thing about it is that it ends - and that if you rented it you can turn it off.This movie is exactly like Britney's music It's unoriginal, full of clichés and is a huge ego-trip from Britney. All the other actors are there only to enhance Britney.Personally, I want to slap everyone involved in this project, and ask them what were you thinking??? "}{"Title":"Crossroads","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"38 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads is not a good movie by any means. Its predictable, cliched, stupid, cheesy and corny. Some of the scenes who are supposed to be taken seriously are laughable.The plot is stupid and the script yes not very good either. But this film is enjoyable on some levels. As for Britney. Her acting was not all that bad. She was actually the only one who was decent in this film. And I am no Britney Fan. She was not good but she was not bad and I Have seen worse. However the other actors were either bad or terrible. "},{"Title":"Caught between two things; being a proper, honest to goodness movie, or being a teenage sisterhood pamphlet...","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" For a while there, I thought that I was going to be in genuine danger of having to admit that I liked this movie. For the first forty minutes it was a warm, if slightly generic, road movie about the positives of friendship and following your dreams... Then, after that point, I started to feel it turn into a Steel Magnolias clone. It was now apparently the type of film where the girls all sit around in a sewing circle, and discuss their problems. I suppose this is fine if you feel like these are real issues and you can relate to them, but when they feel as though they've been cribbed from the pages of 'Dear Abby... ', you stop suspending your disbelief that these are real people, and start seeing them for what they are Stock Movie Characters.Going along with the well-worn movie tradition, the guy our heroine gets with has to be 'hot', and not the slightly awkward, geeky schoolfriend that she actually shares a little bit of a rapport with. That's Movie Law - don't lose your virginity to someone you have a little bit of history with, lose it instead to the hunk you've only just met who has a heartbreaking backstory and abs chiseled from stone, but lacks the facility of meaningful conversation. Hey, why talk much when you can just beat up sleazy jerks in bars and win the girl's affection that way, right?!The first half of the film actually has a path that seems like it might be leading somewhere... until suddenly, that trail goes cold, and the rest of the movie is essentially just a visually 'inspirational' pep talk for Spears' status as a teen role model. It's a shame too, because Spears' performance as a whole suggests she would be capable of handling more diverse requirements. Sadly, these don't appear to be in the play- by-play manual followed by the makers. Eventually, the clichés win out, as we all must have suspected they would do, in the first place. "},{"Title":"It's Acadamy Awards time for Britney Spears","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have to say I am a huge fan of Meryle Streep, and I have not seen anyone in Meryle caliber untile Britney came out with Crossroads. Britney should put the music aside for a little bit and round up some Acadamy Awards. I'm sure once Robert Dinero and John Malkavich view Crossroads they will beg Britney to do a movie with them. If only Lee Strasberg was alive today to see Britneys performance he would clap and cheer like there was no tomorrow. Crossroads itself is a Cinematic Jewel that deserves to be shown all over the world. God bless the director and Britney for bringing excellence back to the big screen.    "},{"Title":"very mediocre","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I have to admit, I'm a massive Britney fan. Not because I think she is in any way talented, except possibly as a dancer, but because the girl can get a recording contract and sell millions of Cd's across the globe, despite the fact she can't sing.I was looking forward to watching this movie, but it in no way even matched up to what I thought it could. I knew the plot would be predictable and lack credibility - i mean come on! It's a Britney movie! But some of my favourite films lack credibility and are still hugely enjoyable, just as a silly release from daily life.Britney tries hard to reclaim her image as the innocent virgin, which has already been destroyed, and making herself out to be clever, or even a geek? Like anybody could fall for that? I'm glad they made an attempt to tackle controversial subjects, but angry that these were skimmed over as subplots, as if they were only there for the critics.The acting wasn't great, but it wasn't terrible either. I have seen a lot worse. I'm sure this will just be another step in the path to fame, especially for the supporting cast. Hilary Swank was in the original Buffy movie, and look where she is now. However, that said, I don't think any of these actors will be winning an Oscar any time soon.Don't waste your time on this movie. If you are bored and wanna laugh at Britney you'll find it mildly amusing, but otherwise, I wouldn't bother. Even as a fan, I couldn't praise this film. "},{"Title":"Atrocious, dreadful, appalling Crossroads","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"43 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  No one can fully describe the agony of watching this film or the twitching that occurs when you realize that it could have been written by a four year old.  Did anyone notice that every scene could have done without the one preceding it?  Even terrible movies string together scenes most of the times.  Bottom line Crossroads goes beyond terrible and should be avoided over things like stubbing your toe, gouging your eyes, and plague.    "},{"Title":"Not a terrible movie, but definitely not a good one either","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I was sitting home bored on Sunday morning, and my cable was acting up, so one of the few channels working was MTV and Crossroads was on. The movie isn't as god-awful as everyone says, but I wouldn't recommend it either. The story itself has been done before (see Boys on the Side), and you can predict the whole movie in the first 5-10 minutes. You also have to suspend some belief (they should still be broke). If you accept the movie for what it is, a coming of age story of 3 very different girls that would appeal to the tween and early teenagers, it's passable. If you're a guy, don't waste your time. The acting is amateurish, but not nearly as bad as in Glitter or From Justin to Kelly.All in all, if you have nothing else to do and it's on, feel free to give it a try. Do not purposely rent or try to watch it. You'll be sorely disappointed. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I bet when you read that heading, you wanted to read what I had to say, because everybody slated it before me. I must admit to my shame, I went to see this movie with some friends because Britney dances around in her underwear. I don't normally do that, but hey.This movie has it all, the babes, the love story, the road trip, the friendship, sexual awakening, teenage pregnancy etc. I mean if you were to pitch this film to a film academic thy would say that you have included all classical devices for a successful movie. HOWEVER!!! There is a fine line in movie making when a story stops being interesting and starts becoming corny. Crossroads crosses that line severely.If you ever wondered what the difference between a good and a bad movie is, this is it There is no difference between a good and a bad movie. A good movie can walk the line, a bad movie crosses the line. Watch any brilliant road trip movie and then go watch crossroads, you will see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Forget about Britney, it is the script that ruins this movie!","Date":"13 April 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is a bad movie, mostly because of the simple reason that it's an absolutely horrible written one.This movie is mostly infamous and hated because of Britney Spears, who plays the lead role. But really, in all honesty, she is far from the worse thing about this movie. It's true that she is obviously no actress but I didn't exactly hated her watching in this and her performance didn't made me cringe all that badly.It's a movie that got made at the prime of her musical career, when she also was still considered to be fresh and innocent. But it does not at all feel like this movie got specifically written for her. She plays a character that is quite different from herself and in the movie she doesn't even sing or dances all that much, which is good news for a lot of people. It's true that this movie is a typical chick-flick, so perhaps I'm not the right person to judge it but I'm still sure that I'm very well able to recognize a good movie when I see it and this movie just isn't much good to watch. The entire way the movie got written and progresses is not only boring and pointless but also lazy and too often doesn't make enough sense.I just don't get some of the stuff that this movie does. Britney Spears is supposed to be an ugly girl, that gets laughed at, at school, which is laughable in itself. No matter how much you just don't like Britney, you can't really call her ugly, especially not when you also see her body as well, which she shows quite a lot in this movie actually. And for some crazy and never explained reason, 3 girls who used to be best friends stopped being friends at high school and even somewhat hate each other go on a road trip together and for some, totally different, crazy reason they also suddenly are friends again, as if everything that was shown and told in the movie previously wasn't important and had even never happened.Something I also really don't understand; the Britney Spears character had a nerdy boyfriend (played by Justin Long of course) for 3 years but as the movie goes along she totally forgets about this and so are its viewers supposed to do I suppose? Since she hooks up with a totally different guy, which is something we also are supposed to cheer for. But what about poor Justin Long Brit? What did he ever do wrong to you. It just didn't feel right but it's normal for this movie to leave many loose ends like this and character just keep on changing their behavior and personalities for no logical reasons, other than it's just being a very poorly written movie.The movie really doesn't progress very naturally or pleasantly and doesn't really wrap things up properly. Just think about it. The 3 main characters all go on the road trip for a specific reason but for none of them, it ends up the way they were hoping for. The movie acts as if it has an happy ending but once you really start thinking about it, you could wonder to yourself, what exactly is so happy about it.It's actually amazing to see how many big names appear in this movie. Granted, that most of them weren't really big names yet at the time, such as Zoe Saldana and Justin Long but still it makes you wonder how so many great actors ended up playing in this movie. It's probably all due to it that this was a Britney Spears vehicle and lots of people tried to ride in on the success and fame of her. But as it turned out, this is not exactly a project that any of the people involved with could be very proud of.Not exactly the worst movies of all time, not even close honestly but it still is far from a great or likable enough movie as well.4/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"She's a Woman, Not Yet an Actress","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Three small-town Georgia girls bury a memory box, pledging to open it together when they are high school graduates. Eight years later, they meet to open the box, and bond over the contents. Pretty blonde Britney Spears (as Lucy Wagner) takes the lead as she, sassy homecoming queen Zoe Saldana (as Kit), and punky pregnant Taryn Manning (as Mimi) decide to drive to Los Angeles with dimpled stranger Anson Mount (as Ben Kimble), who they fear may be homicidal. But he is very good-looking...An 18-year-old virgin, Ms. Spears has neither seen one nor touched one, until meeting Mr. Mount.Spears' two female friends share a shocking sexual connection. Spears gets the guys and underwear scenes, but the other cast members play the better parts. The sexy scenes are over early. The opening highlight features Spears' mouthing Madonna's Open Your Heart in her underwear. A little later, she appears in pink bra and panties, with boxer-clad Justin Long. There isn't much more to see. Begging your pardon, to those of you watching for performances and plot, my condolences.** Crossroads (2/11/02) Tamra Davis ~ Britney Spears, Anson Mount, Zoe Saldana, Taryn Manning "},{"Title":"Cheesy..","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm not just saying this because I'm not a huge fan of Britney. I swear. I saw On The Line because I was a huge fan of Nsync at the time and it blowed. It blowed BAD. Anyways, this movie was so ridiculous. Britney CANNOT ACT. Let's just go ahead and get that out of the way. This movie was just another excuse for her to sing. It's amazing, at the karaoke scene, how Britney was so terrified to get up and sing, and amazingly she get's up the wits to do so after her best friends backs out because of nerves. Of COURSE she becomes a humongous hit with the audience! The whole movie is like this! It all centered around Britney becoming a star!**SPOILER**Oh my god, don't even get me started on the scene where that one girl who was pregnant fell down the stairs! Was that suppose to be sad!? It was almost laughable! It was a last attempt to save the movie in my opinion. And where the dude that raped her and got her pregnant in the first place turns out being the other girl's boyfriend? Please. I remember the boy was drinking beer in a blue bottle... the girl said earlier. And SURPRISE! When she confronts her boyfriend with the other girl, he turns out to be drinking beer! In a BLUE bottle. Only one word that sums up the entire movie.PATHETIC! "}{"Title":"So bad that it's....still really bad","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Wow...this movie makes Striptease look like Citizen Kane. This horrible teen tale is full of every cliché you can think of and then some...runaway mom, overprotective dad, teen pregnancy, teen sluttishness, and in all of this Britney gets to be the guiding moral light. (You know how bad something is going to be when Britney is the Good girl.) For 90 minutes (that feels like twice that) you watch their roadtrip complete with singing along to the radio, the karaoke contest and the obligatory should she or shouldn't she decision about S-E-X.I had a couple of drinks while watching this, and I suspect the only way I could have truly enjoyed it was to either a) drink more heavily or b) Break out the chronic. Yikes. Yuck. Yowsa. "},{"Title":"A very funny movie!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to see this movie with a couple of freinds, just for the hell of it. I was expecting to be bored out of my skull, but instead laughed more than I have in most comedies that came out this year. This movie is so stupid and cliched that it just becomes funny. Britney can only act when she is taking her clothes off.The movie sees a couple of childhood friends, that have become separated as they grew older, not by geography but by their different personality's ohhh ahhh. Here the fun sets in we have Virgin girl (Britney), Issue girl and Slut/Pregnant girl. They decide to go on a road trip with, wait for it...the rebel boy ohhhh ahhhhh! He is such a cool misunderstood tough guy ooohhh ahhhhh! Everyone in search of something and bla blah you know the rest, standard formula.Go watch this if you are in the mood to condescend! Or drunk and just have a laugh. "},{"Title":"in cockey rhyming slang pony and trap","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"   SpoilersWell, I say `spoilers' but there really isn't much to spoil, it is BAD.Where to begin with the problems, well first of all Britney CANNOT act, I seriously thought it was an absolute joke seeing her `range' of emotions.  I was in actual hysterics after the first line she delivers to her Dad.  To her credit she does seem to improve in the middle, but not much.I found the film to be in a no-mans land, it wasn't sure what it wanted to be.  On the one hand it was an extended Tweeny pop-video, which would allow you to forgive the cutsey-wutsey plot and its blatant obviousness, but it also `dealt' with teenage pregnancy, rape, loosing your virginity in exactly the same manner as it dealt with everything else, that is to say, badly.It is so self indulgent on miss Spears, you can only forgive so much, at every sticky situation, Britney saved the day and also dealt with the fact her mum hated her, which by the way took her all of 15 seconds to get over.  The one thing that really got on my tits was her pepsi product placement, I mean for Christ sake, we can only take so much of cans-logos-pointing-directly-at-camera.The most truly horrific bit of plot involved the date rape, in which it became obvious he was the raper through his drinking of a BLUE BOTTLE!! OH MY GOD! Then that was it, nothing more mentioned.Bad.  Yes.  Poor Britney  "},{"Title":"Disappointing...but probably not for the reasons you think.","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I must say that I was very disappointed when I watched CROSSROADS, though I am pretty sure it isn't for the reason you'd think. You see, I am a bad movie nut--and I love laughing at the worst stuff Hollywood has to offer. And, based on what I'd heard about this film, I assumed it was simply dreadful...painfully dreadful, in fact. However, while I'd never in the least say it was a good film, it wasn't that bad--and one of the brightest aspects of the film was actually Britney Spears, as she COULD act and was very effective in her role--even though it, like the others, was poorly written. And this is THE reason I'd say this isn't a very good film. While the acting and direction are pretty good, the script is like a string of clichés all strung together and it's pure formula--with very, very few surprises (other than Spears' strong acting).The film is a coming of age/road movie involving three young ladies who are mostly stereotypes and not real people. Britney plays an overachiever whose father plans on her going to medical school (Britney...in medical school?!). Her other two friends are the stuck-up Black girl...with sass and attitude, as well as a more tom-boyish girl. All three characters do improve and show SOME life through the course of the film, but especially at the beginning they are like caricatures--not people you could suspect are real in any way...at least not on this planet.But, despite the awful writing and music video-like qualities of the film, the overall concoction is pretty painless for what it is and isn't totally bad--hence my disappointment. I also should point out that although Miss Spears' target audience is the 10-15 year-old age group, the film is NOT family-friendly in its dealing with sex. While some of the messages about sexuality are good and informative (such as date rape--though they sure made this plot point a tiny bit too vague), the rest seem to say well, if you know a guy, like, for a week or so,...um, yeah, like...you should do 'it'....for sure. Isn't this sweet?! "},{"Title":"crossroads was...","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Woah. I'm not even sure what to say about it. Some people say it will apeal to the 15-and-under crowd, but i was like 12 when I watched it, and I really did not like it then. So, me now being 15, much more sarcastic, syncial, and not being able to stand things that are too unrealistic, i'm sure if I saw it again i would hate it. The script was cheesy, the and I could tell what was gonna happen way before it hapend. It tried to deal with real issues, and date rape and teen drinking are real issues. But this moovie practially made a joke out of them. I can't even believe Britney Spears thinks she can act, and i'm shocked she made a career for herself singing. All she has going for her is how pretty she is. That's about it. On a whole, this movie was not a total piece of crap. And if your under 16, can take such cheesy movies, and your in the mood for it, then you might be able to sit down and watch Crossroads. But if your not in that group, don't waste your time on it. "},{"Title":"She has enough trouble","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" So, thankfully, I wasn't stupid enough to pay to see the movie, but I watched it - all way through - on VH1, without choking on my own vomit. I also didn't have any major expectations going into the film - judging by her hopping around, which was called dancing, with her early hits, I figured her acting would be equally interesting.I'm not surprised that she wanted to act, or that people were willing to pay to see her in her first attempt and went away disappointed that her skills weren't up to par yet. Although what par is for pop musicians who try to become omni-media stars is unclear to me. Shanghai Surprise certainly set a rather low standard. I do think Britney can sing, and sings better than me, although that's faint praise. She doesn't sing songs that I always like, but she's got a nice voice. I'm thankful she did this, instead of some sort of Britney Revealed backstage movie filled with endless applications of mascara and I mean, we're fricking dorks! I don't think I could have endured that, or my nieces' endless demands to see it.I do wish the plot didn't involve Britney trying to become a singer while facing the incredible challenges of growing up (are the movie executives teenagers? How many times have we seen this plot? After the first five minutes, I could have summarized the entire movie in a three-minute voice mail and spared all of silicon valley from having to see this movie) which is, shall we tactfully say, a bit trite, for all of Britney's PR people saying it's so relevant.I'd expect to see this show up on the lifetime (victim) network at some point - the story seemed about that caliber of movie. I'm not sure there was anyone with actual quality experience in major movie making behind the wheel. The writing was terrible. Dan Ackroyd looks like he was sleepwalking in order to get through the experience. But Kim Cattrall was interesting as a bad mom (never pictured her in that role. The mom, I mean). Britney and friends were all appealing and the camera predictably loved all of them. I wish my parents spent that much on MY teeth.Acting lessons, like ballet lessons, should never end. I didn't think this wasn't a movie to completely trash - it just got too much buzz so it fell a bit hard. I'm sure Britney could use some peace right now. If she was listening to anyone, which I doubt, maybe she would take a few acting lessons, record an album of baby lullabies, and hire an image consultant before her next acting effort - she definitely could do much better than this. "},{"Title":"what did u all expect...","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" ...I mean come on! its Britney Spears, it was so obv. what this movie was going to be, the storyline was so predictable to, it was exactly what i thought it was going to be...boring! who wants to see Britney have a hard time then realise 'everything will be ok as long as you have your friends' To be honest, this movie was probably only made to promote her album titled Britney that came out slightly earlier, and Lucy has a dream! But not just any dream, she wants to be a singer...now i bet you all saw that coming, i mean the personality of Britneys character is just about what Britney wants you to believe she is actually like, i got bored in this movie, and sorry to keep using that word but its the only one i can find to describe it  "},{"Title":"Not good...","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ugh...Britney Spears should've sent this movie to Lifetime,not the big screen. If you like Britney Spears you will probably like this movie. If you don't like her you MIGHT like the movie, but chances are you'll find it ridiculously funny or annoying. There really isn't a big plot, just people driving around...becoming friends...and then the goody goody loses her virginity and that's the end! When you have nothing else to rent, I'd suggest getting this. But only if there is NOTHING ELSE THAT YOU HAVEN'T SEEN!!!2/10 "},{"Title":"Quite pathetic","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's no surprise that Britney can't sing. Turns out, she can't act either. Taryn Manning seemed to talk in a one-tone voice the whole time, and didn't seem like she really wanted to do the movie. This movie was pretty pathetic, and confusing too. Dan Akyroyd has disappeared from the public eye for a few years, and he comes back in just another teen movie? Why? All in all, I think this movie would be a great one for self-imposed preppy Britney wanna-be's. Otherwise, skip it. Now. "},{"Title":"don't go...","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Another typical singer-movie, but this is kinda weird... because the singer is not her, the singer is her friend. This is story of 3 friends that goes on the road crossing America to achieve different things. One of them wants to visit her bf, the other wants to go to an audition... and Britney wants to find her mother. The boy is the one taking them in his car. In the middle of the road they ran out of money and they have to sing in a bar... sudenly Britney's character can sing, and the shy girl is a sexy woman on the stage. Then she writes a poem and the boy writes the music and boom that's the song she sings in her friend's audition.Kinda a stupid movie...  "}{"Title":"Well, I can see why it got 3.1/10","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie has bad acting, bad writing, bad directing... It was downright bad! First of all, it is a BIG coincidence how Kit's fiance was also the father of Mimi's baby. Second of all, (as it says on the back cover) this is not a teen dream! You don't see every teen sneaking away at night on a road trip to California to find their mother or go to a singing audition. I mean jeez! It could have been a bit more reality in this movie! I give this movie what everyone else gives it, actually, it doesn't deserve that much. 1.6/10  "},{"Title":"Cringe-worthy!","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't know what I was expecting with watching a Britney Spears movie, but this film really makes you cringe! Three childhood friends, who aren't close in the high school, decide to embark on a road-trip with a seemingly dodgy driver in Ben. Despite some cute girly moments, this film became cliche and boring with horrible lines and silly plot-devices, and it spirals further down the toilet with stupid sentimentality and a contrived coming of age theme that does not work. Britney's acting was okay, but the overall film was really bad despite a few obviously sexy-shots of Britney for the teenage boys. What can I say? This is officially the worst film of 2002 that I personally have seen so far! *1/2 out of *****!  "},{"Title":"Just like Britney- totally fake","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Don't even ask me what possessed me to rent this movie. Everybody and everything in this movie was horrible. It reminded me of Britney herself- a piece of fake ditzy junk. I recommend that you do not even waste 1 and a half hours of your life on it. "},{"Title":"Oh no save us all!! (","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  My mom and I were bored the other day, so we went to Blockbuster and rented this movie just to have a good laugh. But, I must say that I could not even laugh when watching this movie, it was so bad! I mean I'm not a Britney hater, but please! My mom finally just fell asleep, and missed most of the movie, she was lucky. Britney had better acting skills when she was on The Mickey Mouse Club. I have to say my favorite Britney line was in the hospital scene, when she says, wheres the phone at? I bet the director let Britney write that great line all by herself! I really hate to say this but she can sing much better than she can act. It is all in all, a horrible film, especially for her younger fans to watch. My mom has one thing to say about this movie Yuck!! I totally agree with her. "},{"Title":"Shonda Really!","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It was a cute movie, but they could find better ways to spend 12 million on a movie. Bet half of that went to Britney. Which was money not well spent. Probably used to pay K Feds drug habit, or his alimony. Most people spend their whole lives to make that much, and she makes one crappy movie and bam. Not to mention it was written by famed Grey's writer Shonda Rhimes. If I knew that before I started watching the show I never would have watched. I am surprised they gave her another job after this movie. Yes, it is about friends and a road trip, but the plot jumps around and was basically a ploy to get more record sales for Brit. And to satisfy the teeny boppers. Not a fully formed movie, more like the deformed twin.The reviews of this movie are hilarious, go ahead read them. These reviewers put the writers to shame and should have written the movie, it would have been worth watching, and worth 12 mill. Let's face it, it sucked. It was the worst thing Britney has ever made that didn't come out of her diaper. "},{"Title":"There aren't enough bad things one can say about Crossroads...","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" On a scale of 1 to 10, Crossroads gets a -75, hands down. Right from the start you could keep a tally sheet of every stupid line or stupid element and you'd still fill a good few pages, I'm sure.The movie was obviously written for Britney Spears, and it seems that she plays the girl that she wishes she had been. As a matter of fact, she's not necessarily a bad actress, but she's given nothing to work with. The transformation of a science nerd into pop diva absolutely lacks credibility, as does her brief and nasty reunion with her mother.So, too, does her shipboard romance with the driver. So, too, does the film's melancholy and heavy-handed treatment of rape and teen pregnancy. So, too, does the karaoke fund-raiser. So, too, does the entire road trip... shall I go on?Why did I write this review? I was killing time before leaving the house on a Sunday morning. What a waste. "},{"Title":"No custody battle for this movie.","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Poor Britney. After everything that has happened in her personal life, seeing her then, compared to now. You have to feel sorry for being subjected to a woman's gradual disintegration, from top-marketing diva to, well, what the poor girl's become. That doesn't mean you should subject yourself to this. Crossroads is some kind of semi-autobiographical tripe that's just too ridiculous. Watching Ben head towards the piano was like looking down the barrel of a gun. We all knew what was going to happen next.Britney, I mean Lucy, and her friends embark on a road trip to Los Angeles, each with their own reasons.With the exception of Justin Long, who we would later see as the Apple Mac guy picking on PC, there's nothing to this movie except seeing Spears and fellow actors destroy songs by Joan Jett and Shania Twain among others. Lucy's friends seemingly exist to meet some kind of tragedy once they reach LA. Spears does too, however she wants to take out whoever's brave enough to try this film, forcing me to fast-forward through her rendition of American Idol. I'm reminded of a scene in the Simpsons, where Mr. Burns forces Santa's Little Helper to watch visions of horror, ala Clockwork Orange. If America really did vote on that number, Ms. Spears, you and I know you probably wouldn't have made the bottom 12. "},{"Title":"Crossroads Business in the front, Party in the back...","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" To begin, because that is always a good starting point with films of this nature, I must take a step forward and say that the acting wasn't excruciating, but it was painful. It was obvious that our three leads, Spears, Saldana, and Manning, were quickly becoming strong friends &#150; and that friendship translated well onto the screen, but it was their individual stories and accomplishments that created the pain. In one scene, we saw this trio as little girls &#150; friends without a care in the world &#150; then instantly we are pushed into the awkward high school dark ages where nobody is friends with anyone. Riffs have been issued, and we are asked to rediscover who these characters are again. Matching them with their young counterparts is easy, but when their mouths open, it is another world all together. Spears leads with a hodgepodge of different characteristics. She dances sensually in her bedroom, unrobes nonchalantly in front of her lab partner, but is most avid about doing the right thing when it comes to morality and truthfulness. There is even one scene where she hangs up on her father, no doubtably instilling the correct visions into her impressionable teen fan base. She couldn't give us a straight character to save her life. Coupled with the annoying Zoe Saldana who tries the hardest of the group, but cannot seem to quite understand the life surrounding her. Then, painful to write, there is Taryn Manning (who gets better with each film) using every cliché redneck white-trash persona possible to define her character. It isn't bad enough that we have Spears fading in and out of her real character that to have Manning use y'all like it is Shakespeare &#150; yikes. Again, the acting isn't bad (I have seen far, far, far worse), but it isn't Juliard &#150; closer to flunking out of Acting 101.I have mediocre respect for director Tamra Davis. The woman that gave us the hysterical and near cult-classic Billy Madison as well as Half-Baked, has also turned out slow duds like Gun Crazy and, surprise, Crossroads. Her talent seems to be all over the place instead of choosing projects that will continue to define her. Listening to the commentary, it felt she did this to 1) work with Spears, 2) she needed the rent money, and 3) it was an all girl cast &#150; her youthfulness will be returned. Not exactly the typical reasons artist create on a blank slate. With Davis, I wanted humor, darkness, or anything that would make me remember why I loved Madison or Half-Baked' &#150; ANYTHING &#150; there was nothing. Did I expect it with Crossroads, probably not, but it would have been nice to see something that was uniquely hers. Road movies are made weekly, and it is those road films that try to bring something new to the genre that stand out and bring more to the table. Wasn't Billy Madison just a take-off of Back to School? I just question the ability of Davis without a studio baking and thankfully she has taken her raw, rotten talent to television only to further infuse the masses.We are left with nothing more than the story. What story did Crossroads tell? How about one lone girl's quest to find herself and loose her virginity? Does that sound right? Again, this wasn't rocket science writing, yet it seemed amateur from the first word. We know who Spears' love interest is going to be from the beginning, the take at the end is given away within the first twenty minutes, and the only strength to this entire film is a scene with Dan Aykroyd saying I was a Ghostbuster, a Blues Brother, and Conehead &#150; I did this film for my kids. I believe that sums up this whole story in a nutshell. Needless to say, the story lacked any depth, and there was one scene where we attempted to bring real life to the screen with a rape, an accidental death, and our old friend, underage drinking. Thankfully, Spears could push beyond all this and finally sing her songs near the end, the obvious finale to the film that was started. The ending point didn't match with the starting point in this film.So, I watched this film. Everyone will have to at one point in their life, I just shortened the inevitable. Again, it wasn't the worst film ever made, Glitter still ranks below this, but there wasn't any value in the final performance. Spears didn't push for this film to be made because she wanted to be an actress, she wanted more face time with an audience that seemed on the fence about her ability &#150; and as time has shown, we didn't make the best assumption. The acting wasn't horrible, but everything else was so we are left with a sour taste in our mouth coming from all directions. I will not, nor suggest this film to anyone except my wife, who thought it was better than Clerks II.Ouch. I will end on that note.Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Spectacularly awful","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" What is the worst part of Crossroads... the ridiculous overacting on Britney Spears' part, the cheesy predictable plot, the shameless plugging of Britney Spears' music, the poor casting, the Britney! Britney! Britney! special features? It's such a horrible movie on so many levels that it's impossible to pick the *worst* part. Crossroads is one of the poorest excuses for a movie that I have ever seen. It makes after-school specials look like Oscar contenders. Britney Spears' acting is so over-dramatic and contrived (much like her real life persona) that I don't think even daytime television could accommodate her lack of talent. The only moderately redeeming aspect of this movie is Taryn Manning. While the plot line regarding her character was completely unrealistic, her acting was as impressive as her fortitude which would be required to spend long hours on a set working with a cast of buffoons. "},{"Title":"Oops you screw up again","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I watched this movie on TV and man its bad, If you're hoping to see Britney nude or with minimum clothes better watch her videos. Its full of clichés and is the most predictable movie I've seen since Glitter. Britney's acting is very bad also the rest of he cast. If you're a hardcore Britney fan please get treatment or kill yourself, ether choice is good. What more can I say about this movie well not much, oh yes what it is about A girl (Spears) that go in a journey to reach stardom, and in the way fall in love of her soul mate. Thats about it. So if you want to torture your boyfriend nothing better than the trilogy Crossroads, Gliter and Gigli the same day. "}{"Title":"Why, Dear God?","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" No way this film should have ever been made. The writers, producer, and director should all be publicly horsewhipped. Britany Spears should be decapitated and her head mounted on a spiked pole. . .This film is proof the dumbing down of America is complete. I had suffered through films with a total disregard for the logic of plot developments before, but this film totally throws the concept out the window. Instead, it seemed to be a stream of consciousness gushing on about how wonderful and brave and magnificent the character portrayed by Britany Spears is (and by extension, how magnificent Britany herself is). Being inside a pubescent girl's head while she daydreams during a boring high school geometry class. . . this is what I felt like in the theater while watching Crossroads. "},{"Title":"britney bout to stir it up","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  or not goat liver fish oil and egg paradise  have alot in common with this movie nothing this is trash you know it you  people who voted it a 10  cmon lets give all those people who gave this a 10 a hand  or a finger ;)  "},{"Title":"Oops. She didn't really do anything.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie has the dumbest plot I've ever seen. It's overly dramatic, tragic, and cliche. The characters are stiff and bland, the acting overly dull.As with most pop-stars gone Hollywood, Spears works her music and lyrics into the script so much it's gag worthy.Britney is an alright actress, but the script she chose is TERRIBLE. She could have picked a thriller or an interesting drama, but no. A stupid teen movie.I wouldn't recommend seeing this unless you are a Britney fan or you would like to have a movie to laugh at. "},{"Title":"100% Britney...just as you might expect.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, let's face it guys Britney Spears can't sing. Even though most girls don't seem to notice it's still a fact. Now she's started something she's equally terrible at Acting. Damn, this movie is bad. Not it could have been better bad but I've never seen a movie as horrible and with worse actresses as this one bad. Plus it's got plot holes as big as America. As a matter of fact I'm currently trying to sue the cinema I went to for the 5 $ I spend on the movie. But oh well, I guess I have to pay for the sheer stupidity of having considered watching this flick.I'm sorry I didn't comment on the plot itself that much but to be completely honest I can't recall a single thing connected with the story behind Crossroads. But there's a psychological explanation for that sort of stuff. I think it's called post-traumatic suppression or something.... Please avoid this movie at any cost...you're jeopardizing your sanity \  "},{"Title":"Refrain from reading if you're a Britney fan","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  That was a beautiful spring day. It would be even more beautiful if I wouldn't go to watch Britney on the big screen. I've heard the comments about the movie. Now I can say, that I've better stayed at home. First 10 minutes passed very quickly. After 15 minutes I became nervous. Such a banality!!! No, this isn't romantic, this isn't nice, this is BORING! What about Britney? Well she really fits the idea of the film, but the combination of poor scenario, miserable acting of Britney and the phrase I'm not a girl, but not yet a woman can really make strange processes occur in your stomach. I must admit, that this is a very painful film. Mostly I felt pain in my over-smoked lungs. And one more thing. Yes, I was really crying. Not because of Liuci dreams, but because of my wasted time and that Hollywood started to make such films. Crossroads had to be cut to pieces in studio already. Now my personal recommendations. Go to this film if a) you want to cry; b) you want to see Britney in underwear; c) you are up to 12 years old, and you want to see pure love and forever-lasting friendship; d) you are a big fan of Britney's; e) your life is regrettable; f) you live under a nearby bridge, scare kids and kill squirrels;Thank you for your attention PS I LOVE BRITNEY! "},{"Title":"Very bad and not good for teenagers","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The basic plot of Crossroads can be told very quickly There is Lucy (Spears), an overprotected, shy teenager who lives with her father. There is Mimi, pregnant and just left alone by the father of her child. And there is Kit, very slim, very beautiful and very popular but set under pressure by her mother who is obsessed with beauty. All three have just finished school and are about to decide what they want to do with their future or, in Lucy's and Kit's case, what they parents want them to do with their future. Now Mimi gets the idea to drive to a song contest in L.A. and invites the other girls to come with her. So the three of them go on a road trip, every one for her own reasons and their driver is Ben, a musician, who wants to work in L.A. As you can imagine, at the end of their trip each of them has changed, learned a lesson and more or less reached her/his dream.It is obvious that the movie is nothing more but a glorification of Britney Spears and her talents. She looks great; she sings great, the Lucy star is shining above all. Everything circles around her, everyone always tries to cheer her up, she always has luck, she gets the boy and of course at the end it's she who gets the record deal her dreams. Watching the movie you really ask yourself why the other characters exist at all. The movie now and then tries to deal with them but then suddenly drops them to get back to Lucy. This happens many times. We get to know that Kit was chubby as a child but was violently pushed by her mother to lose weight. We also get to know that Mimi's pregnancy is the result of a rape and her only dream is to become a singer. But the script doesn't care. As soon as the story begins to concentrate on Mimi or Kit, something happens to Lucy and her friends immediately forget about her problems and concentrate on her. Ben also is nothing more but a toy boy whose role it is to cheer up Lucy, to make her happy and in the times he is not dealing with Lucy his role is to shut up and to look good. Also it is incredible how great those teenagers deal with the problems the script tortures them with and smile again ten seconds later.Concerning the way the movie is made I guess it aimed at teenagers and of course, fans of Britney. Yet I wouldn't recommend the movie to teenagers for many reasons. I would even forbid it to them. The movie pretends to be a light summer fairy tale but underneath it, it makes some really dangerous things looking very attractive. It implies for example that it's more than OK for a seventeen year old girl to cruise through the U.S. with a stranger, stay at every shabby motel, not to be afraid to go into bars for adults, participate in a song contest and dance like a stripper there and to have sex with whom she wants. Just to name some. Of course a road trip is an exciting thing but not for teenagers as they lack responsibility and sensibility and can quickly find themselves in dangerous situations they cannot deal with (yet).Don't get me wrong &#150; I think Britney is not too bad at acting and maybe a good singer. But I just wish that she made her debut in a better movie than this crap. It's a bad script, a really stupid plot where you don't know where it's aiming at and besides a waste of time for the actors having participated in it. I am sure, most of the viewers of this movie were and are teenagers but I really hope that they don't walk through the world being as naïve as Lucy.  "},{"Title":"Worst","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie was a huge promotion for one of her crap albums. This was basically a two hour commercial. They should've just saved the money and trouble of making it.I think if a singer is to make a movie, at least have a decent story, and make sure said singer can act!This is that stupid glitter movie all over again. At least when Mariah Carrey gets a mental break down she doesn't shave her head and get taken away in an ambulance.In short I think Brittany spears should be slapped right in the mouth for even attempting a form of entertainment other than her trash prostitute music. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I am definitely a hater when it comes to Brit. She is immature, reckless, and a horrible parent. Not to mention she can't sing or act.The movie was the same boring teen drama and it wasn't funny and I could create a better plot in my sleep.I only watched this movie because it was free and I figured let someone prove me wrong on what I thought of Brit-Brit. Well this is just as bad as her fake piano playing in her concert I also hoped to be proved wrong from.Don't watch this movie. I watched it for you and it really isn't worth it. "},{"Title":"not my cup of tea","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  the whole movie is kind of, i don't know, undeveloped.  britney spears' acting is so...dry and unnatural that it just annoyed me when i watched this.  and really, a class valedictorian wanting to dabble in the music world?  i'm not saying it's totally unlikely but really, the world knows what britney spears is like and she's not exactly valedictorian material, especially since i don't think she even finished high school.  maybe the script should've called for a more stereotypical character, seeing as this is spears' first movie. the plot isn't bad but if it had different actors, it would probably work better. "},{"Title":"Horrible i feel sorry for myself for seeing this movie","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  before i saw this movie, i expected to be really bad, but it might be better than the commercials, after seeing this movie, i found out that this movie is that bad and worse, this movie wasn't really boring, it was painful to watch, i couldn't stand it, it felt like an open wound was on my head. bottom line DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIEHorrible=1/10 "}{"Title":"This was really, really, really awful","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The rating says it all, Stay away from this movie.  It fails to provide the coming of age bonding chick flick for pre-teen girls or loser women. Also, Spears does not take it off immediately giving all straight males reason enough to pass this one at the video store.  She can't act and even worse, if she could it would not matter because the script was so horrible it did not matter.  As people we must pass on crappy movies like these because if they don't lose money Hollywood will continue to make others like them, I mean look at The Core. "},{"Title":"Worse than Manos The Hands of Fate, Monster a Go-Go and Santa Claus Conquers the Martians put together","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I was forced to watch this movie by one of my ex-friends, who is a major Britney Spears fan. And man, I just couldn't take it. I spent most of my time screaming, whimpering and banging my head against the wall.It's a stupid teen movie that is clichéd to the max. It's basically about Britney Spears and her friends going on a roadtrip after being reunited with each other. Yes, that's the plot. and besides, Britney Spears is so talentless, that she makes Pia Zadora look like Mae West.I swear, at least Spice World was the so bad it's funny type movie, but Crossroads is in the Manos class, as in so bad it's traumatizing.But at least I got even and showed my ex-friend Manos the Hands of Fate. And I don't regret it either. "},{"Title":"The Worst Piece of Crap Ever","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Yes, it's, finally here a movie that can win the award The Worst Piece of Crap Ever that is all the movie is, crap, crap and more crap... If you want a movie with a good script, then, this is NOT the right choice... If you want a movie to think about stuff, then, this is NOT the right choice... If you want a movie to make you laugh just for a while, then, this is NOT the right choice... If you want a movie with good actors, then, this is NOT the right choice... If you want to enjoy a great movie, then, this is NOT the right choice... If you want a movie to discuss with someone, then, this is NOT the right choice... If you want a movie just to past the time entertaining yourself with an empty and stupid movie, then, this is NOT even the right choice... Well...IF YOU WANT A MOVIE, THEN, THIS IS NOT THE RIGHT CHOICE... "},{"Title":"an effortless display of nothing","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" i, for one, thought the movie was horrible. three childhood best friends loose touch with each other throughout high school and then bond again after ending up on a road trip. what would the movie be without britney spears dancing around in her underwear for publicity, having sex to create controversy and get more attention, and of course you to have the best friend got drunk and raped element to show that britney might care about someone other than herself. it reminded me of a certain sprite commericial....the slug bug one, where a bunch of buisiness guys are sitting around discussing different ways to sell their movie....do we have the song?..... check..... merchandise?.... check.... do we have a script?.....no, but we can pull one up by friday. this was just another crappy, unoriginal movie to sell britney spears. "},{"Title":"I want my 93 min. back","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The only thing that redeemed this movie WAS Brittney Spears.  Without her body (at least I am honest) this movie would deserve a negative number instead of the 0 I wish I could give it.  A terrible, TERRIBLE waste of time.  It should be erased from the annuls of movie history and forgotten, avoid it at all costs.  "},{"Title":"It was beyond bad!","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is extraordinarily stupid. The dialogue is lame and the whole thing seems utterly pointless.Thank God this movie bombed otherwise they would have made a sequel.I gave this movie 2/10, why? you say, well.....you cant deny that Britney Spears is pure eye-candy. But dont watch the whole 1½ horrible hours of it. Just check out the 200 some images IMDB have of her and save yourself some time. "},{"Title":"Born to make you crappy","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's clearly obvious that this film is a media stunt, and just Britney Spears staring in a movie out of reputation, not out of merit. When pop stars make their film debut, they're normally poor and deliver flat performances. This is a classic exampleThe storyline is so predictable. I shouldn't be writing spoilers, but I guess you can figure it out. Britney Spears gets the guy, becomes a pop star in the end, and sings one of her own songs. Surprise surprise!The friends forever plot line is getting very much out of fashion. Seeing it again is not something I have the utmost pleasure in seeing. There's the odd moment you see Britney Spears in her underwear, which as a guy, is the only plus point.It's pretty much pointless and something you really should avoid seeing "},{"Title":"....","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I myself am not a fan of Britney Spears, but I wanted to watch this movie to see if it was good or not. I went in thinking 'Just because Britney Spears is in it doesn't mean it's going to be bad'...but at the end of it, I was ready to fall asleep.First of all, Britney's character (Lucy) is all wrong for her. I mean, would you imagine Britney as an unpopular, geeky goody-good? Exactly. It's just too hard to imagine. Instead, we are stuck with Britney Spears' actual 'grown-up' image and it just doesn't work. It was just a bit too...unlikely.Second, at times I felt almost embarrassed for Britney when she did all these things like dancing in her underwear. Some of the movie was truly cringey. Overall, I felt this movie was not gripping enough. I couldn't truly focus on the movie because I thought it was a bit too weak.  "},{"Title":"Thank God for the STOP Button","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Holy crap was this ever a crapy movie. I ended up pushing the STOP button 5 or 6 times. Acting and story we're just horrible in this movie, I mean, come on!! Britney Spears was supposed to be a brainiac and geek in this movie (how could the producers think that people would fall for that)? Britney Spears being smart and getting picked on at school is unbelievable enough, but NO they had to throw in a almost sex scene with a nerd, which would NEVER happened, a girl with that good looks would get alot better. The thing I was most dissapointed in was Dan Aykroyd being in this movie, how could a great actor go that low??? Don't even bother picking up the video box in the movie store, YOUR WASTING YOUR TIME.  "},{"Title":"If you like it, you have no taste.","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Warning Might contain spoilers! I'm going to be frank with you. Britney Spears wasn't as bad an actor as I had expected. She did her job good. On the other hand, her character was just as boring and cuddly-wuddly as you'd expect. The film is just terribly, horribly predictable. I watched it with a few friend (we said to ourselves `Let's just watch it so we have it over with and can discuss how terrible it was!'), and one of them said `Before we see it, let me try and predict what will happen'. And he was very accurate and he never saw the movie before (if you watch it twice you have too much sparetime) or heard anyone tell the story of it. The director should be shot, the scrip-writer should have his hands cut off and the producer should be put on a spaceshuttle and sent into outer space. Yes, it's really that bad. Not the worst thing I've ever seen, but then again this movie had a big budget, which most of the really terrible movies don't have!It is, as you might expect, one big commercial for ms Spears. Nothing more, nothing less. The story-line has some really strange glitches and happenings that are either confusing, yet not, or totally uncalled for. For  example when she seeks up her mother, which left her (Britney) and her dad when she was 3 years old. Britney goes walking up the lawn and knocks on the door. Her mother opens and Britney says `Hello mother, it's me Lucy!' and her mother goes `Oh, come in!'. Very believable and `real' reaction from a woman who's not seen her child for 15 years. She doesn't even seem surprised. That's just one example of the things that are quite bizarre and disturbing in this movie.This is actually a movie everyone should see. This is a perfect example of how not to do it. This is a movie which everyone should have their own opinion about. Just let me add If you like it, you have no taste.I gave it 2 of 10 only because Britney wasn't as bad as I expected. "}{"Title":"Great For Ripping on . .","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  As is common on a Saturday night, my friends and I decided to see an atrocity caught on celluloid and tear it to shreds.  Therefore, I bought this piece of garbage at my local Blockbuster (with the sale, it was actually cheaper than renting). The ups You do see a lot of Britney's nubile little body in this miserable vomitous mass of a movie AND Britney's acting isn't bad at all. Only die hard Britney haters will lie and say she was terrible. However (as noted above), the movie itself is a steaming terd. Everyone involved with this car wreck apparently had their own agendas and ideas for what it should be.  The simple plot and immature dialogue are geared (intentionally I HOPE) towards younger children, while the strong sexual content is clearly adult oriented.  If not for Britney's star power, this movie would have NO audience of its own. I promise anyone with an IQ over 90 will be dumbfounded by this film's absurdity and won't even remember seeing it a month after viewing. "},{"Title":"Some good laughs","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am not going to state how bad this film is because I don't want to be redundant. I rented this flick strictly for laughs and it delivered. My personal favoritesThis is Britney's actual dialogue during the emotional scene where her friend Mimi is pouring her heart out and telling her that she lost her baby and wanted to be a mother. Britney's lines during that scene Hey then Yeah, followed by Okay and finally Yeah. I had to rewind and watch it again because it was so funny! There is also a very inappropriate part during this scene where Britney tries to touch Mimi to comfort her and then Mimi snaps back, Don't touch me! Britney then deliveres that third line, Okay.So much for editing When Mimi and Kit are walking up the stairs so Kit could see her college boyfriend, Mimi stumbles delivering her line. At this point the director already gave up and was thinking, God, I hope I did not ruin my career by taking this project.Even the lip synching in the end where Brit is auditioning is so bad. Jeez, I mean she could've at least sang LIVE! If she screwed up, then they could just reshoot the scene.If you are studying film editing and screenwriting, definitely rent this! You will be laughing out loud!I'm thinking minus all the scenes where they are singing along with the radio during the road trip, the story would take 30 minutes.Overall, this is good to rent if you're a person like me who every now and then likes to rent films to enjoy bad dialogue, acting, editing and directing.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney's film contains every cliche in the book. The plot is laughable, the acting is appalling and the moments of feelgood romance / friendship are cringeworthy. This film is hysterical as long as you realise just how awful it really is.   "},{"Title":"Really Bad","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie had almost NO plot what soever, and Britney Spears cannot act worth anything. This was the worst movie I rented all summer. Unless you are a 13 year old boy who likes Britney, you will not like this movie. I mean, come on. The guy in the movie isn't even cute. "},{"Title":"Great ass...but it ends there...","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, there's a small cluster of my life I won't be getting back.  The film hit its high point within the first 5 minutes, when we saw Britney's flawless derriere.  Then the movie began to plummet downhill.  If you must watch Crossroads, make sure you have it on mute or lower if possible.  I wish there had been at least some light comedic tones to the film, considering Britney and her pals get bombarded with some pretty heavy issues to deal with, but alas, there was not even the slightest inkling of a joke anywhere near this film.  And then there were parts that were so cheesy, I could feel part of my soul twitch and die as I watched...and I can usually tolerate high amounts of cheesiness.  But yeah, Britney's ass.  Can't wait for the sequal. "},{"Title":"It is so bad it makes Glitter look good.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have seen a few bad films in my life, the only one worse than this has to be Hellraiser 4 (you can read my review of that one as well).The problem with this movie is that Britney chose a film to be built around her, not entering a role of a film already written. When actors and actresses choose a role in a movie already written, they are choosing to act based on if they liked the story or not. This film was written FOR Britney, and a film this bad would not be made without her in it.The film suffers from the same problems that have hurt Britney's career. It is not a film about finding the answers. It is a film about young girls going on a trip and their innocence is lost. It is not lost by normal situations. It is lost because Britney's character wants to have sex with some 30 year-old ex-con. Why? Because her screenplay does not know how to build romance. Instead it thinks that sex proves that she's found a bond.Britney Spears has been criticized for continuing to sexualize herself in videos and magazines instead of concentrating on making good music. This time she's using the same I'm not that innocent attitude in a movie that will be watched by some of her younger fans. I'm not sure how the parents of a ten year-old girl will feel after taking the child to see her favorite singer in the movie.I won't go into detail with the things going on with her friends, but a film like this is not for the fun loving Britney fan. I'm sure that Britney could have made a decent two-star average film that her younger viewers could enjoy. Maybe with SOMETHING funny actually happening in the film.This film is a complete disaster. Nothing causes anyone to truly care about the drama that the characters go through. It is a Britney Spears project without laughs, good drama, or good characters. The only person who did a good job was Dan Aykroyd, and his role was so small that he couldn't save this waste of film print.If you want to see a film that's bad, but TRIED to be good, see Glitter. If you want to see the worst film ever, see Hellraiser 4. If you want to see a film that's so bad it is funny, see Battlefield Earth. Britney Spears' Crossroads is so bad that you can't even giggle at her failure. "},{"Title":"I thought movies were above this.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Let me start with the marketing. When you see this advertised, you see Britney's name emblazoned above the title. There are actually other actors in it. Bet you didn't see that one coming. Now let's move on to the film. As soon as I saw a grown-up Lucy, I knew this was going to be a cardboard cut-out. Lucy's character is Little Miss Perfect throughout the movie. People just aren't like that. Britney just got the job because she's famous and it shows her in her underwear. She definitely didn't get it for her acting. Lucy all this 'I'm going to find my mom' business is predictable. It's boring. And that 'poor-little-me' act gets old within seconds. And this was all just an excuse so you could squawk, ahmm, sing.The other characters are all heavily flawed so as to increase the attractiveness of Miss Spears. Very bad technique. Well, this movie deserves 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I almost walked out on this in-flight movie","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Oh my God! What a piece of trash this was.I was recently on a flight from Europe to the US and when my companions and I found out that this was the in-flight movie we did our best to petition them not to show it. We figured that watching nothing would be better than this piece of tripe. Much to our dismay they showed it anyways. I'm considering suing Northwest Airlines for the cruel punishment of being trapped 35000 ft. in the air and having to put up with this.From the opening credits I knew that we were in trouble when I saw the large MTV logo emblazened before us. But in looking back, that was one of the best parts of the movie. Basically this was a 90 minute Brittney Spears marketing tool - and talk about bad acting!!!! If you have seen the Pepsi commercial with her and Mike Meyers you have pretty much seen the depth of her acting range (those years on the Mickey Mouse club really paid off).And while I'm on hte subject, I'm tired of the comparisons between Britney Spears (herein known as BS) and Madonna. Granted I'm not a Madonna fan but I have to admit that she has more talent than BS ever will. Also the thing that has sustained Madonna's career for these 20+ years is versatility. Just when you think you figured her out she completely changes, where we have just heard the same old thing from BS since day one (she just keeps getting sluttier). Personally, I'm waiting for 5 years from now when VH1 does their Where Are They Now segment on her. "},{"Title":"where`s the acting","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  always funny when people go nuts in a karaoke bar or when the jury go nuts. but the best part is when they are drinking. one pulls 2 bottles(1/2liter) out of the fridge and when they are sitting in the room you see 3 full glasses!! they are all drunk and you here her say oh God, I'll never drink again. "},{"Title":"Um ... pretty bad","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney can sing okay, but her acting needs a little work. Okay, make that a LOT of work! This movie is mainly about Britney. This movie has too much Britney. Everything in this movie is practically all about Britney Spears. Can't they make a movie about someone else? It's not like Britney doesn't get enough publicity anyway. The movie was okay, but not as good as I expected (I didn't expect it to be too good). The plot's fine, but the acting is really bad. "}{"Title":"I couldn't even finish it","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  My friend rented this movie and I decided to watch it with an open mind but that didn't last for very long. I am sorry but it was as bad as bad gets. I didn't even finish it, I had to get up not even half way through, I couldn't stand watching it any longer.  I'm sorry but i don't even know, it was just plain bad. "},{"Title":"What has happened to American Cinema?","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The only way this movie could be more predictable is if you've seen it before. Unoriginal and dumb. Britney fans will revel in its simplistic happy time views. Oh, she also sings!! If you didn't see that one coming then this movie is made for you. "},{"Title":"it sucked!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  this movie is lame and has no meaning to it. when would something like this ever happen. it is so unrealistic and plus britney spears can't even act! every word that came out of her mouth was so fake. i expected it to be just as gay as this but it was way worse. i don't encourage anyone to see this but knowing how many fans she has i won't be surprised to see how much money it made or how much she made for doing it. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I like Britney Spears but this was a horrible movie.Over used plot, horrible acting,and dialogue.It had some stupid moments like when they get a ride with some guy who they think killed someone. Why would you drive across the country with someone if you thought they were a killer? How about when they win enough money from the karoake contest to pay for a hotel,gas, and to fix the car?I don't think this would of been a good movie if someone like Natalie Portman or Kirsten Dunst was in it. Horrible choice for Britney's acting debut. She should pick a role where she doesn't have to sing.1/10 stars "},{"Title":"hmmm...","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What surprised me most about Crossroads was that the first half wasn't totally horrible. Yes the characters were cliche, but it wasn't totally unbelievable. The writer and director clearly cared about the characters and the story and if anybody but Britney Spears had been attached to this project it might not be the celluloid joke it's become. I have to be honest, I didn't think Britney's acting was that bad. It's just that you can't look at her without being aware that she's Britney Spears. The film never gets over that hurdle. Yet, it's the second half were things get mind numbingly bad. It becomes a total vanity project for Ms. Spears. The whole i love rock n roll scene was one of the worst experiences of my life, and by the end of the movie I swore that if I heard that damn not a girl song one more time I was going to start ripping out my hair and feeding it to the dog. Poor Dan Ackroyd... crying as he hears that song???? It was laughable. The film actually has a lot in common with that song. Not a girl, not yet a woman. The film can't decide if it should cater to Britney's posse of young fans or prove that she's all grown up. The film has its share of cutesy moments, but also features plenty of cursing and plenty of sexuality. The movie's not as bad as it could have been, but it's still more or less a waste of time. This sort of thing has been done a million times before and with better results. I think Ms. Spears could continue acting if she were to choose a role that wasn't so blatanly modeled after her, and I insist this film could have been decent with anyone but her in the lead. My friends and I tried to enjoy this as a it's so bad it's good viewing, but it fails even on that level. You've been warned...  "},{"Title":"dear, oh dear, oh dear","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  well.....  i am a MASSIVE britney fan so went to this wide eyed and bursting with fruit flavour..............oh how i was fooled. it wasnt so much that britney couldnt act it was that her character was horrendous!  she claimed the character was like her in real life, but dear god dont let that be true! the plot was so weak (going from not speaking for years to y'all lets be friends forever!).  the comedy was only there when you were mocking it, i use the humming of not a girl not yet a woman by the piano as a fine example!  and please dont tell me you didnt laugh at the he's just some guy who gave me a ride line!  britney you dirty minx! all in all the film was much like britneys dress sense.........  vomit inducing and very misguided!DON'T GO AND SEE IT Y'ALL! "},{"Title":"Oh My God!!! *yuck*","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was the most outrageous one of its time.  Competing with A Walk to Remember, it is really bad.  It had no value but was just a stupid movie. Brittany Spears really needs some acting lessons.  And why compare this to Can't Hardly Wait?  At least I didn't sit there in that whole movie and make fun of it like Cross Roads.  Really people, start making some senseful movies that don't suck.  Ones that people won't buy just to burn. "},{"Title":"this was the worse movie","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  this was the worse movie in the world it was not funny at all she sung her own music and is a horrible actress she should stick to singing although she is not good at that either.I only went to see this movie because my friend wanted to see it and no one in the theater even laughed.It Might have been better if she would have sung other music and they would have had 3 different actress beside the three main ones they had!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Well, that was interesting..","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Oh my..why do people in Hollywood keep insisting on putting pop singers in movies? This movie was very terrible. I hate it in movies when they have a singer in it and they just somehow find a way to make them sing in it. I could handle it when Beyonce Knowles from Destiny's Child sang in the Carmen movie on MTV. I even enjoyed when Mandy Moore sang in A Walk to Remember. (Most likely because she actually has a good voice, unlike Miss Spears) **spoilers** The thing that really bugged me about this movie was the fact that in the beginning Britneys character didn't even want to be a singer. Then, all of a sudden, she can sing! So her friend who wanted to be the singer just steps aside so Lucy (Britneys character) could be the singer. WTF?? I know, I know. This was just so Britney could sing in this God awful movie.  So, I would say Britney, I think you need to stick to singing, but the thing is she can't even sing! So maybe she should just leave the hole entire business. ha. keep dreaming.Oh, in some of the other posts people said that we shouldn't just be judging Britney, because the movie is called Britney Spears. Well, the other actors did all they could but were given a very weak script. Also, the plot to this wasn't good. So really the movie *as a whole* wasn't good. Well, I think I'm done babbling now. ;) "},{"Title":"Worst actress ever in the worst film this year.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The worst actress ever...ever!...in the worst film this year.  I don't think anyone connected with making this film ever expected it not to be bad, but instead went with the thought that as long as there were kids that bought her music (which, let's face it, unless every great musical talent left standing is wrong, is pretty bad even by pop standards), then they would also go to her movie.  To give the producers some credit, this is a film with a specific market, but I personally hate it when producers, who could make better films, with better actors, take advantage of those that don't know any better.  Video stores are full of direct-to-video releases that fall into the same category (usually in the horror and sex category), but those are marketed to an older audience.  Marketing such poor trash to kids in the way Miss B.S. does is disgusting.  She should drop the kiddie pop disguise, and move into soft-core fare for adults...which is a fair guess will happen in a few years anyway after her fan base grows older...I'm sure she could find an adult audience. "}{"Title":"2homltingb","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  2 hours of my life I'll never get back...If you haven't seen this and you need an example of the suck factor of this movie, I think the scene where she visits her mother is probably one of the greatest.  She hasn't seen her mother since she was three.  Her friends simply drop her off, don't even say good luck, no stress, no tense anticipation, nothing.  B.S. just says to her friends as she marches up the sidewalk a casual call me and tell me how the rehearsal goes.  So she goes and knocks on the door it's me lucy, mom.   Kim Cattrall does her best to make something out of a nothing scene.  She acts stand-off-ish at best...  and then simply says we need to have a talk.  Cut immediately to B.S. showing up at the hotel room with wet clothing.  Her friends ask her how it went, she doesn't respond and goes to the bathroom.  She acts sad for at least 6 whole seconds and then never again for the remainder of the movie acts like it's affected her in any way whatsoever...How badly this movie sucked has absolutely nothing to do with B.S. IMHO.Even a high-caliber actress like Natalie Portman couldn't have rescued this piece of garbage.As for all the angry review posters here, chill out... It's understandable, but don't like a movie like this rent space in your head.  It is SO not worth it... "},{"Title":"Ummm....How can I really describe it but well, it sucked!!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is hilariously dumb!! It is just an excuse for Britney Spears to dance around in her underwear. I do believe we see her half nude about 4 times in this film. She is a pitiful excuse for an actress and should stick to her music. The movie is like a non-stop music video!!It could have been a lot better without Britney! The story wasn't bad if the writing and actors would have been adjusted a bit. DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME!! I only went to see it as a joke! "},{"Title":"Popular Singer Does Not Equal Capable Actor","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Lord in Heaven, why does Britney Spears have a career?Her music is bad enough, not to mention that when she  performs them in concert, she's lip-synching.  Or are we really supposed to believe that she can dance her aerobic routines AND sing without losing her breath?  Don't think so!This was proven by her appearance on Saturday Night Live.  She performed one dance song (as outlined above), then sang a ballad for which she did not dance.  This allowed her to sing without a tape back-up, unfortunately, and showed up her complete lack of singing talent.  Even her back-up singers (who were singing louder than back-up singers usually sing to help Britney through the song) couldn't hide that fact. If there's any justice in the world, she'll wear out her welcome fast and just disappear.  Then she'll be nothing more than the answer to a trivia question on JEOPARDY! "},{"Title":"I can't believe I paid to see this.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am a huge Britney Fan, so willingly, I went to go see it. However, from seeing the previews, I was not that impressed. After seeing the movie, I was extremely disappointed. I thought it would be a little more exciting then it looked. The story line went nowhere, and Britney needs to just keep on performing (not acting). It's a good thing she played herself, otherwise, it would have been ten times worse then it already was. "},{"Title":"A complete and comprehensive showing of what NOT to do when making a movie...","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a huge example of what not to do when writing or directing a movie. If it werent for Britney Spears, the obsessive teens that saw this movie wouldn't have seen it, the media wouldn't have noticed it; come to think of it, nobody would have been foolish enough to direct such a poor movie off of such an absurd script.Predictability is the thing that stands out in my mind.  As I watched this movie on a plane ride from Hawai'i to LAX, I think I could have written the story out from the very beginning of the movie.  Every scene is so obvious and contrived from the previous ones that I feel like i'm watching a movie that was written by a High School Freshman Dance class.  Not only is the whole linear and boring plot predictable, but individual scenes are just as predictable.  This movie throws no surprises, curves, or has anything of interest.  From begining to end, this movie sloths forward to what would seem like a climax, but after an hour (two thirds of the movie) into the movie, its realized that there won't be a climax.  Three immature and childish (although all looking 20+) highschool girls go off on a roadtrip with some guy, and by the end of the movie the writers and directors must have realized that nothing was coming of the movie.  As such, they simply took all three character's shallow and contrived stories and wound them all together in a total writing-cop out.  The movie could have ended after the first scene, the second, or any other scene there after right up until the end and I don't think I would have noticed.The dialogue is miserable and the environments boring and have already all been done.  Britney's character, lucy, and her boyfriend/nerdy lab partner (whos name is forgotten after the second or third) decide to Do it after prom.  This never happens, because Lucy has doubts.  Are you sure you want to do it? she nervously asks, clad in bra and panty. The guy then proceeds to actually pull out a LIST of reasons WHY they should.  What planet are these people from?  The best part is that Lucy, after hearing the list, composed of such winners as Because we're lab partners, and I can't go to college a virgin, is actually temporarily convinced!  But, alas, Lucy is a smart girl and decides to wait for love. How thoughtful.  What depth.Britney, the typical amazingly-beautiful-yet-brilliant-nerd-gets-pushed-around-in-highschool, walks around highschool with her head hung low with her nerdy boyfriend/labpartner and plays pretty-made-fun-of-nerd-virgin-in-pink.  Speaking of Ms. Spears, I once heard someone say that this was a foray into new territory for Britney or a step in a new direction.  Folks, watch this movie and look at britney's character.  Britney's character, Lucy, is a nerd for the first part of the movie but all too soon, lucy turns into Britney Spears. She's an amazing singer, seductive dancer, cute little school girl charm and sexy blonde.  Britney Spears plays the same person she is in real life!  A move in another direction?  This whole movie is about her - its like a little biography or tribute, or even a music video with a few extra added in blocks of unused time.  Her acting is just like her music videos; dancing around like a blond fool with a great body.  To her credit, I've seen much worse acting.  She wasn't all that bad.  But, it wasn't hard.  SHE WAS PLAYING HERSELF.  Everyone else was just filler. As a matter of fact, any character at any given time could be replaced with any random person, or wholly taken out for that matter, and it would have little or no effect on the story.While watching this movie, we dont' care at all about the characters or what happens to them, but rather when Britney is going to get cherry picked.  It sounds lewd, but its true.  A few minutes into the movie, we already see Britney in JUST her bra and underwear, and shortly thereafter she almost has sex with some idiot.  The rest of the movie does a miserable job of portraying her budding romance with this guy she takes this absurd trip with, and of course at the end, they decide to do it.   Are you sure you're ready? he so kindly asks.  Yes, I want to do it.  Cry.  Tear. How great.This tribute to Britney's sex appeal and singing talent (which I very much hesitate to call it talent) is nothing more than throwing a pretty face into a shallow and aimless plot with a few other pretty faces.  Had I been given a full frontal lobotomy or had my ears surgically removed, I might have been able to sit through this movie without thinking I was being tortured or as Mystery Science theater 3000.Now, directors and writers out there, lets not make this mistake again.  If theres one thing this movie can do (besides bolster Britney record sales and worldwide appeal), its show future directors and writers what not do.  Lets not let this happen again.Meanwhile, I hope I'll see this on MST3k, or maybe on TV in a room full of drunk people.  Lets see Britney in a movie where she doesn't play an innocent yet sexy and attractive singer/dancer trying to find her self, and maybe then we can gauge her (lack of?) acting skills.  "},{"Title":"Thanks for nothing","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Saw this one free and it wasn't annoying so I was JUST about to give it a 4 or 5 (2½ stars out of 5) when I whoo-oo, backed down. Give it stars for WHAT exactly? This here is a blind spot of a movie - it isn't annoying, cause there's no ambition, basically no story, no, well, NOTHING. It's like one of those abstract paintings on the walls of fine office-building - maybe a pan green triangle and a yellow sphere on white. A nice no-one-annoying filling - just like Crossroads. I hate movies like Legally Blonde. I should hate Crossroads as much, because to me, it's a chick flick alike, but I can't, because it's too BLAND to be taken as seriously as a MOVIE. Kinda like watching MTV for 90 minutes. I only ask whatta hell was Dan Aykroyd doing in it?Maybe an other reason for not hating this one was for seeing Britney in her underwear. That's right, feminists, call me STRAIGHT! "},{"Title":"What can one possibly say?","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney Spears as her class valedictorian jumping into bed with the class nerd?  Who would ever believe it?  No one, that's who.  This movie was so-so, giving Britney a character to play that is not that much different from her real-life persona.  The plot was contrived, though.  See it for laughs, and don't expect to have your life changed forever afterwards. Grade C- "},{"Title":"absolute atrocity","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  my girlfriend forced me to go see this atrocity.  this is hands down, the worst movie that i've seen in a very long time.  the writing/story was boring and predictable, the acting was miserable (from all actors, not just britney), and it was simply a trick to get you to pour more money into britney.  i'm not just saying this because i hate britney, i honestly think this is something that nobody could enjoy and i don't know why anyone could have possibly given this a good review.  even if you love britney's disgusting, fake, horrible personality in real life, there is no way that you could enjoy her fake personality on the silver screen.  do not see this movie for any reason.  you will be dissapointed "},{"Title":"Same old same old","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's the same old story one person says jump and the others ask how high. Crossroads is no doubt a crap, brash, false movie and Britney is excruciatingly cringing to watch as she trys to 'act' her way through this piece of candy, but since the age range of her fans is something like 7-12 who cares? I dont think any hollywood casting agents are going to be banging down her door but its making a hell of a lot of money. If she's trying to follow in the footsteps of - Madonna - she's going about it all wrong. Britney has to earn respect and with fluff like this she's never going to be taken seriously. Dan Ackroyd was given very little to do, other than play the softy Dad and Cattrall's character was a bit void.At 21 I was far too old to be watching it, yet with the sexual/teenage topics I was embarrased to be sitting next to a group of giggly 7 year olds, whilst on the other side a group of adolesent boys were sniggering away. "},{"Title":"An Utter Travesty","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Whereas Stephen Frears skilful relocation of Nick Hornby's &#145;High Fidelity' from it's original North London setting to the US was largely successful, director Tamra Davies' decision to do the same in this adaptation of the popular West Midlands-based TV soap, almost totally fails to capture the character of the original. Not only is the hotel backdrop which formed the life-blood of the series almost entirely jettisoned in favour of a lame teen road movie story-line, but popular characters such as Benny and Miss Diane are supplanted by a bevy of teens, presumably cast with a view to attracting the crucial American under-25 audience. Fans of American culture and the popular singer &#145;Britney Spears' who most British audiences will know only from her lone English hit &#145;Ooh aah just a little bit' some years back will no doubt love this. But for those expecting a shrewd recreation of the  soap opera, Crossroads will mark a serious disappointment.   "}{"Title":"Even worst than what I expected","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok... just for the record, I'm everything but a fan of those plastic manufactured dolls like nsync and backstreet and Britney... but I was hoping that the movie wouldn't be as bad as I heard... I didn't hate the little movie On the line with N'sync, just thought it was a cute little movie for feminine teenagers... And Emmanuelle Chriqui was oh so cute...But Crossroads was one of the baddest movies I've ever seen, and the freakin'try-to-be-stylish-vomiting-like voice that Britney has is just awful... It looked like a cheap Coyote ugly, with absolutely no credibility, bad acting (except for the Mimi character, who was sympathetic), it was crap... Sorry... Usually, I'm a positive person... but I can't do THAT kind of miracle... o) "},{"Title":"Had a pretty good time, while it was a pretty bad movie","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  But not as bad as I had anticipated. Predictable, some bad and ok acting and a few moralistic messages for the young audience. A friend and i were the only males and only adult non-parents in the room, and we went in for a laugh. Expecting a really awful movie we were somewhat let down, this isn't as horrible as some people have said. Strange, but true. Had fun none the less. ps. I want calculator like Britney's, boy, did that thing calculate the costs of a trip fast ) "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie ever, but close to it!","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is really, really , really, bad!The acting is bad from all the actors, exluding Dan Akroyd, and Kim Cattral. And it is obvious that this film was only made to bring Spears to the big screen. The story line is horrible, and predictable. And I nearly fell asleep.But don't get me wrong, this isn't the worst film ever made . But it is really bad . 1/10!  "},{"Title":"Bout as bad as an elvis movie.","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a bad movie. Bad acting, bad sets, bad story, even bad editing, BUT, it is no worse than any elvis movie. This movie took $2 that I worked really hard to get but I do not feel jipped as appearently everyone else who saw this movie did. I was a little disappointed by the lack of nudity, but at least Brit humored us males that were forced to watch this with her jiggling in her tighty whiteys. Dan Ackroyd continues his downward slope into 10-10-220 ads and Kim Cattrell might as well have not even shown up, but hey even with its incredibly predictable plot (oh no who is the baby's daddy and Why doesn't he want to see his own fiancee?) this movie is not the worst thing I've ever seen called a movie. That would be hudson hawk. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Rubbish but hey- that's what you'd expect","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS It's happened so many times before; a famous musician decides he/she is going to take a break from music to focus on acting. Now what I don't get is why, after making all the speeches about moving away from music, they all then make films in which they spend 80% of the time singing. This is one of those films. This is also one of those films that is adapted to the actor rather than the actor adapting to the film thereby negating the point of acting. This is also one serious ego film. It's good to see throughout the film how flawed Mimi and Kit are but how perfect Lucy is. Why, at the end of the film Mimi kills her unborn child and Kit gets dumped by her fiance but do they care? No - as long as Lucy's happy (gets the good-looking guy and wins the competition). People have complained about how acts like Britney Spears give young girls the message that you can't be successful unless you're well endowed, blonde and pretty. The film starts by telling how Mimi is going for a music audition but by the end of the film it's Britney winning the competition and Mimi just being a semi-suicidal maniac. Why? Because Mimi isn't blonde, well endowed or pretty. To cut the long story short, if you are a female under 13 who's got all Britney's albums and consider her your idol or you're a fifty year old weirdo who like eighteen year old girls you probably have already seen the film. If you're not you don't want to see this. Really. "},{"Title":"ugh.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie with a large group of people, and that was the only thing that kept me from leaving the theater.  This movie showed no sign of talent; not on the side of the actors, (except the girl who played Mimi), or the writers, or the director.I guess it was a good try, and I'm sure it spoke to Brittany fans out there, but all it said to me was Leave the theater.The script was predictable, and very touchy-feely.  It was as if someone opened one of those serious Seventeen stories and put them all together for a movie. It had it all.  Rape, body image problems, not being loved by a family member, drugs, alcohol, etc.While it was intended to make you think it came off as cheesy and boring.Also, Spears was not convincing as the smartest kid in school.  I'm not judging her, it's just I giggled every time her dad (Aykroyd) explained the plan of MIT pre-med and then medical school.  I'm not saying she was a terrible actress.  I actually thought some of her mannerisms were very sincere and fitting.  Whether or not that was an accident is questionable.The director didn't show that she had talent.  It wasn't at all outstanding.My Grade D- "},{"Title":"Britney oughta be ashamed of herself","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney Spears (for reasons I can't fathom) is beloved by many pre-teen and teenage girls. She is a role model for many girls, as young as elementary school. So what does she do with that responsibility? She dances sluttily, sings provocative songs, and rips off her already scanty clothes. Then she goes and makes a movie that shows her getting drunk, singing in bars, and losing her virginity. For that reason alone, she disgusts me, and so did the movie. Not to mention that the plot was predictable, and her acting very stiff and unrealistic. It wasn't completely bad; it had entertainment value, and was even cute at times. But it was basically and hour and 1/2 music video, with Britney in her underwear or some other revealing outfit every 3 seconds. I give it 4/10 "},{"Title":"Utterly crap with disappointment. (except for her singing)","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is disappointing. It's better than glitter but simply the worst musical film. Britney Spears can't act very well in this movie and it looks like a low budget movie. This movie can't deal with the story very well that nothing is too weak. Britney Spears is getting her character confused between a goodie girl and a porn star (which is very weak). Inappropriate music comes out during the trip. A complete waste of money through the cinemas. A real BORE!!!1/5 stars.  "},{"Title":"1 1/2 hours of terror please save yourself from this hazard","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Why they want to watch this? Britney is so HOT..oh please get a life loser. This movie is like putting Barney in American Beauty scene. Britney barely act, she got no emotion, no fear, just a lame mascot. To make matter worse the screenplay and script further restrained, already limited, Britney spears acting skill.  This movie is so unbearable for hours and it's like 1 full hour attack of Taliban-Al Quaeda gangs. Unless you are a Britney fan, a pervert or have your own death wish watch this movie.  "},{"Title":"Pass the barf bag please","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was by far the worst attempt to try and make a teen singer act. This movie is nonsense! None of the characters have depth and it is so obvious that this part was written for Britany. None of it is realistic! Do you really think a sensible senior girl is gonna run off with a guys she doesn't even know! (and who she looses her virginaty to by the way) Oh and i especially like how they had to make Lucy the best singer out of the three.(Ha ha) She has no acting ability at all and i think that the whole reason she acted in this movie (or tryed to act) is because she knew Mandy Moore was coming out with a better one. Because lets face it people, Mandy can blow doors off of Britany when it comes down to it. At least Mandy is real! i mean, If you put Britany next to a heater she'll melt into a little pile of silicone! "}{"Title":"A rotten piece of banana peeling which I just feel like squashing on Britney's face!!!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie made me sick! it's just too disgusting and despicable. however, britney aside, the other performers gave some decent acting. it was not enough to save the movie! would i recommend this film? maybe only to hardcore fans of Britney Spears. Otherwise, you would be wasting your time and money!! "},{"Title":"No laughter, no entertainment....no point.","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The plotThree girls go on a road trip after their graduation to become something, and are helped by an ex-murderer.Good PointsIt tries to be happy.Bad PointsIt's unoriginal It's boring. Acting isn't great. Doesn't excite, just bores.The viewThe first twenty minutes may give some(very little though)comedy parts to give a little spark. That's all that really counts. Britney Spears needs to maybe get something a bit more serious, or enjoyable, possibly anything but this to give her career a boost in the movie business. This movie isn't that great. It's Thelma & Louise with teenagers and the old find real parentthing just hinted into about five minutes with the film. That doesn't do the film any favors at all. Instead it brings it a more depressing and boring acting skills for the actors. The actors are really just 2D shapes walking around being told what to do and that makes this film one you just might want to miss ** "},{"Title":"What a waste of time!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Having won some tickets to see this Britney Spears classic, I was eagerly awaiting to see what the pop princess had in store.From the outset it was obvious that the film was unimaginative, predictable and boring. Spears plays herself on screen (badly!) and the part when they're in the car singing Bye Bye Bye was gut wrenching.It was at this point I was considering walking out but the desire to brag to colleagues kept me glued to my seat. But about halfway through (just after the all night drinking session, of which they all look beautiful and fresh in the morning) it turned into a comedy. The bright green glow out of the bath was hilarious as was the part when Spears confronts her mother after 20 years apart.I would recommend this to film lovers everywhere who want lessons in how not to make a film.Completely dire sums it up as I hear that Spears is in production on another two movies. Surely something to rival The Godfather?! "},{"Title":"Typical story for young brainless girls based on Spears's virgin image....","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  3 best friends, and a sexy guy take a trip across the country, hoping to become famous. After not having enough money to repair their car Lucy (very badly-played by B.Spears) sings at a nightclub. And it changes her life forever... WOW, I know many bad movies but it is the TOP of them. The story, I guess it was written by one of Britney's managers, is soooo boring that you can asleep. I hope there won't be more of such movies...... "},{"Title":"Oh the humanity.","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I wonder if there´s still any piece of dignity in Hollywood today or any kind of respect to the people that like to watch movies,this movie answers the question whit a tremendous NO.Forget is a Britney Spears movie,we watch how a group of happy-ligthly girls travel with a guy that looks that he came out of some Calvin Klein promo,they discover the true friendship and discuss many brainy topics like the meaning of life.Even a pack of milk has more sustance than this.Funny movie?,nop,Enterteining?,nop,even good just to pass the time?,hell no.If after you watch the movie you had the desire of going to your home and hang yourself from the roof it will not be a surprise.zero stars. "},{"Title":"a disgusting pile of vomit that never should have been green-lighted","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I ended up watching this with two female friends, and that fact has big bearing on my review here.I had heard before that this movie really sucked big-time, but I also feel that many critics are just too critical. I've seen some whoppers of lame movies in my time, but after watching this I gotta say that this one takes the cake.The story is so big of a cliché you don't even know if you should cry or laugh. Ever single character is a stereotype of gigantic dimensions, and they also win the award for the most one-dimensional characters I've ever seen. The story is ridiculous, it's so predictable that I sat all through the film knowing exactly what's going to happen next. The acting stinks, wait let me correct that - there is NO acting.In short I'm at a loss for words as to describe how much I hate this thing. It's a disgusting pile of vomit that never should have been green-lighted.Funny thing though is that the two girls loved it. People are just too braindead these days. And the fact that ms Spears is in it will gather tons of money from braindead zombies. What happened to quality cinema? "},{"Title":"A line has to be drawn","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Usually I am not one for writing reviews as I find that they can not be too helpful sometimes; but I have to make a stand when it comes to this film. I am a big fan of the American Teen Genre, the films are always humorous with cute, if not equiped with intriguing stories. This film, however, lacks both. I was expecting this film to be a little bad but I did have thoughts that teen humor would be its saving grace. It doesn't take a lot for me to laugh, but Crossroads didn't even crack any jokes. There is someone who needs to keep up with the day job as acting may not necessarily be a good idea. So anyone who reads this, I implore you not to see this film, it really is bad, though I know the exploitation of women in their underwear will prove to be a major pull factor for fans that will see this film anyway. If your reasons to see this film are just to see what the fuss is about, fine, but be prepared to walk out. I myself had two attempts at seeing it, the first laster 24minutes and that was just about enough, the second time, however, I managed the duration, and even then I felt it was a waste of an hour or so of my life.  "},{"Title":"Oops, they screwed up again...","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Not often before have I seen such an utterly boring, predictabe and sentimental piece of film. Everything in this movie has been done at least a thousand times before, and at least a thousand times better too. The plot of this movie revolves around three girls that go on a trip to LA and have quasi-deep conversations about The meaning of life, True Love and cliche stuff like that. Not once does it even become remotely interesting or convincing.Of course, this movie is also full of lame commercial Britney music, but hey, that could be expected. The only plus (?) to this movie is that Britney at least has SOME acting talent (well, at least if compared to Mariah Carey in Glitter).Avoid. It's not even unintentionally funny. NO STARS   "},{"Title":"I lost a bet and had to see this movie","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, there I was the only twentysomething guy in a theater to see Crossroads. Not for the shear pleasure of being entertained, but because I lost a stupid friendly bet.  So much for fair bets. Well I must say that this film provided excellent nap time for me.  The story...um what story, the acting....um what acting.....the plot...um what plot, well you get the idea.  I will not wish this movie on anyone, especially those who are easily offended by god awful movies.  I must say at least it shows the world that pop singers should not cross over (no pun intended lol)  and do movies at the height of their popularity.  Britney Spears should have taken notes from Mariah Carey ala Glitter fiasco.  Just a matter of time before Britney will appear on VH1 Whatever happened to.....segments. That or become a spokeswoman for a late night infomercial.  "},{"Title":"It doesn't get any worse than this.","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!With that aside, let me just say how incredibly terrible this movie was. While I wasn't expecting much from the Crown Princess of Vapidity, I went into the theater with the notion that it might be marginally enjoyable in a laughable sort of way.  Was I ever wrong.The movie lived up to my expectations of it being the mindless gushy drivel that seems to attract braindead teenage girls like flies to a refuse heap. However, it wasn't even COHERENT drivel, as the plot seemed to meander aimlessly here and there, and then eventually just die about 1/3 of the way into the movie.  And the acting, well, the acting.  All I can really say about that is Britney . . . NO.All in all, a thoroughly wretched movie.  And parents, don't subject your kids to this movie, despite whatever wheedling and whining they may put you through.  If you, however, decide to tempt the fates, be warned that your children will become dumber for having watched the movie.  I know I did. "}{"Title":"What the heck was Hollywood thinking?","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Why waste money making a film like this?? Is it to drain all the money from mindless 12 year old girls? Whatever happened to solid acting, a well thought out script and good plot?  This movie is sooo bad, if this movie were to be dubbed and shipped to anywhere else in the world, it would just be an example of how unoriginal and boring the film industry has become. (This movie is a disgrace to Americans world wide) Instead of making a joke like this, why didn't the producers just give the money away to a decent charity?  "},{"Title":"What a waste of seven dollars...","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was just plain stupid and unrealistic. Just when we thought she couldn't sink any lower, Britney Spears proves that she can indeed go as low as possible with this pathetic corporate sham that was obviously one big promotion for her current CD. Britney, we all know you're just a Madonna wannabe, so please be like your idol and stick to singing, mmmkay?  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  My friends and I went to see the movie as a joke, thinking it would be lame and pointless... The movie was even worse than I imagined it could be! Britney Spears performance was REALLY bad, none of the heartfelt scenes seemed at all realistic and when she was trying to be angry it sounded like she absolutely didn't care.  The plot was lame and incredibly predictable through the whole movie and when Britney was reading the poem she wrote (in actuality the lyrics to her I'm Not A Girl... song) I felt like shoving the straw into my head to end it.  I do NOT recommend anyone see this movie unless you are going to make fun of it or have a strong stomach.  "},{"Title":"Makes me feel like a dirty old man!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was bad.  Not disgusting or outrageous or depraved, just plain old, run of the mill bad.  Two redeeming values were present, however.  It was so bad that you can openly make fun of it and laugh out loud at inappropriate times in the theater, and the scene in which young Lucy is about to give up her virginity to the science nerd and we get to see brittney in that little pink lingerie deal.  I also liked the fact that parents who took their young children to this would feel uncomfortable. "},{"Title":"Depressing.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to see Crossroads in the hopes that it would be a so bad it's good movie, like Showgirls, Coyote Ugly or Glitter. It's not. It's just depressing. There is only one reason this movie was made to drain the pockets of clueless 12 year old girls. I left after about 20 minutes. "},{"Title":"this movie was bad","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  this movie was bad, but its not as bas as I thought I'd be. Britney really cant act. lets just say I'd rather watch a walk in the clouds then this. I mean it wasnt the worse movie I've seen but it was closely up there. I dont have anything to say for this movie. but if you are a Britney fan then I recommend this movie to you.  "},{"Title":"Ok this film inspired me on so many levels of boredom","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I know everyone moans how singers can't act but based on this film I think they have good reason too. I know the company probably wanted to exploit Britney's some what undeserved popularity at the moment and the whole girlpower thing thats going around but they failed to make use of either. The girls in the piece where some of the dumbest characters ever and where only funny because of this dumbness. Britneys character is strange to say the least, I mean she's the school geek but she wears sexier tops then the supposedly popular girl and shes much much more attractive (go figure). Another amazing thing is that after what wasn't really a good performance she made like $700 from karaoke (as Austin would say WHAT!).I wouldn't waste any money on this film because things go it is incredibly bad. The only part I truly enjoyed was the fact that Britney did look good through out the film and she didn't sing that much. "},{"Title":"Best Film since James Camerons Titanic but better","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First there was A Street Car Named Desire, then there was Casablanca, not to recent Titanic, and now Crossroads the movie of the Millennium. I defintly see the Neilson's Media setting there sights in the Trillions in revenue by the end of the year with Crossroads. A sure 17 Oscar nominations if not more in the 2003 Acadamy. Britney's performance puts any Meryl Streep movie to shame, beating out Jodie Foster, Julia Roberts or anyone else who enters the ring with Britney in acting. Mel Gibson and Tom Hanks are probably firing there agents right now as you read this column for not being involved with something as original as Crossroads. Britney Spears who is set for best actress of the year.  Julia Roberts is scared stiff.  This film will make you laugh and cry more than Titanic but most of all, A STANDING OVATION during the credit roll. But don't worry fans, it is guarented that there will be a Crossroads ll and 111 plus prequel. The biggest mistake was regular movie prices. Crossroads should be the same price as broadway plays $80 dollars or more. Maybe they will fix that in Crossroads ll.      "},{"Title":"poor plot, overly dramatic & sentimental","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First I have a soft spot for the road trip movie idea. Easily brings that young rebellion feel to a film. But when that is said, this movie is all but good. It takes on as many teen issues as possible and then deals with them in hand holding and overly sentimental Oprah-scenes over and over. The beginning of the film is the worst though with the extreme high school stereotypes in the popular student and the studying student. It also contains one of the worst scenes of the film with Lucy and her lab partner who have agreed to loose their virginity together. I suppose its supposed to be funny, but its not. Well at least you get to see Britney up close. So what about the pop princess acting skills? Very varied I'd say. She overacts every here and there and her meeting with her mom is another low water mark in that area. But then again she handles the motivated sentimental scenes with ease. Her little talk with her father in the beginning is quite ok and later her talk with the guy in the film after meeting her mom is pretty brilliant. So to sum up on that she's not without acting skills but she overacts like seldom seen and that partly is to blame on the director directing a first-timer. Further on in the movie the dialogue generally feels very unspontanious as does alot of dramatic scenes that are much fuss over nothing. Well that was about all, I'll give it a 2/10. If you're particularly in love with these cheap teen flicks, or if you in fact are a young little teen, or if you just want a chance to watch Britney you might enjoy the movie, at least a little. Otherwise you have 99/100 odds of randomly finding a better choice. "},{"Title":"WOW.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What, you expected it to be good?  I actually sat through half an hour of this horrible film, then walked out.  Not only is the plot awful, but the acting is equally bad.  It's pretty clear that this was just a marketing scheme to take advantage of Britney Spears' popularity among teenage girls. This is one of the worst and most blatantly bad movies I have ever seen. And it disgusts me that the producers and the writers don't give a damn...they just want to make money using Britney Spears. "}{"Title":"Crossroads The Life of Robert Johnson","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In a non-traditional twist of casting, teen pop sensation Britney Spears stars as blues legend Robert Johnson in this lushly produced biopic. While music historians may scratch their heads in puzzlement, (as Robert Johnson was not a white teenage girl) but according to legend, Johnson sold his soul to the devil in exchange for the ability to play the guitar. Satan, however barely makes a cameo appearence in this film, with most of the footage devoted to karaoke montage sequences. Ultimately, the audience is left to ponder Who got the better deal- Britney or the Devil?  "},{"Title":"The Most Disgusting Teen Movie Ever!!!!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Let's just first say that I walked out of the movie theatre with several other friends when I saw this. I want to know why Britney didn't pick a movie that had good moral value. There was drinking, talking of rape (which didn't put any teen girl at ease), and to top it off sex before marriage. If the script would of have had Britney stay in her good-girl top of the class character she wouldn't have wanted to have sex! I thought britney believed in waiting to have sex til after marriage.So then why does she go and choose a movie where an eighteen year old girl has sex with a guy she'd  only known for a week? She said in an interview that she wanted to choose a movie that dealt with real teen issues. Okay, i'm a teen and i know for sure i would tell my father that i was going on a roadtrip, and, i wouldnt have sex with a guy i only met a week before. I have no clue why britney would make her image even more disgusting. I advice you not to go see this movie unless you want your jaw to drop at every single moment. This movie is definately an excuse for 13 year old boys to slobber when britney takes off her shirt....a few times. PARENTS PLEASE DONT LET YOUR CHILD SEE THIS MOVIE! ITS AWFUL! "},{"Title":"An absolute must NOT see!","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If you waste your money seeing this movie, I pity you.The whole teen coming of age movie theme has been done so many times before, and in 99% of cases a lot better than this poor attempt to launch Britney's acting career. Not to mention the characters are all so horribly shallow, vapid and pathetically laden with attitude which is getting VERY old.Stick to singing and dancing Brit, even your mindless fans should be insulted by this absolute joke of a movie. "},{"Title":"Take this seriously...it's bad.  It's really bad.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I can understand that Britney fans and early teenage kids might enjoy this movie and find it interesting, but anyone expecting anything more than a 90 minute promotion for Britney will be sadly disappointed.  She sings, she dances, and she runs around half naked.  That's about it...She tries to act, but sadly fails most of the time.  What irks me most of all is how stereo-typical the movie is.  Stereotypes fly by left and right.  Britney's the goodie-goodie straight-A student who has never partied, done anything wrong, or had sexual contact in her life.  The other girl is a soon-to-be mother from a trailer park, and the other girl is the one who thinks she's a step about everyone.  Throw in a ex-convict who was arrested for about the simplistic and most innocent charges anyone could EVER be arrested for, and you got your self an ill-conceived movie that like I said before, is centered around Britney's singing, dancing, and half-nakedness.Bottom line...it's bad.  Really bad. Britney's got a ways to go before she will ever make an impact in the movie business.  You can't fake bad acting. "},{"Title":"DUDE!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie with my girlfriend because she wanted to see it.  It sucked, totally a chick flick where it just plain sucked for the girls too. The movie would have done better if the producers wouldn't have cut out the Mardi Gra scene where her and her friends flash everybody alot.  That probably would have made her look more grown up.  For all those who haven't seen it.....don't waste even a cent on this people of garbage. "},{"Title":"could it be Crossroads sucks?","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I had high hopes for this movie. Being an avid Britney Spears fan I thought that this movie of course, starring her would turn out to be a spectacular performance. We all know all us males want a piece of her and I guess this is one way of doing it. )But when I went to see this movie. I was sadly disappointed at it's lack of story and poor acting. In fact, the worse actor by far is Britney Spears. She's terrible.Summary Go back to music Britney, your acting sucks. The only thing that keeps your fans motivated are your looks. "},{"Title":"Pop star + movie = waste of time!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Anyone who has taste in a good story, great acting, and an overall good time, RUN SCREAMING FROM THIS MOVIE!  Road trip movie not to be missed, my foot.  This movie is so laden with social issue melodrama, the writers should be sent to therapy to deal with their obvious oblivion for what life is really like.  And it looks like Britney has attended the Madonna School of Acting, where pop divas think they can cross over into acting with ease. Big no-no.  Britney, go back to shaking your bootie and lip-syncing, and leave acting to those of us that can do it.  I feel sorry for the other actors in this movie, mostly because they have to forever be associated with this tragic piece of film.  Glitter would be better to see than this.  "},{"Title":"a word worse than bad?","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  we need one, kung pow should win best picture over this garbage.  i work in a theater, so in closing a door or en route to cleaning a screen ive seen the three parts i need to see (keep in mind some of these scenes are so short i combined them)--britney dances in her underwear--britney flashes the kid with the missing eyes from jeepers creepers with smaller underwear before not doing it.--britney in a bikini--britney in the shower--britney makes like 7 hundred dollars singing i love rock n roll with as much emotion as a lawn mower in a karaoke dive that isn't having a contest, only allowing people to keep what tips they make.  $700?other than that, the movie is bad, and even those scenes aren't good save for the digital effects.  bad bad bad "},{"Title":"Can't sing, Can't act, Can't dance sooo....Why do we pay to see her?","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Come on!!! Migod its called CROSSROADS! you can probably guess what i am going to say..........go on GUESSS. WELLLLLLLLLL? Do it AGAIN. Imagine an HOUR AND A HALF of this! see my POINT.....WHY do we PAY to see her????? shes TERRIBLE. Leave the HAPPY GO LUCKY aditude at home!Think of Julia Roberts, Drew barrymore...what do they have that Britney lacks? TALENT "},{"Title":"I really wish Britney would grow up.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am a young mother of two girls, so you could probably predict how they love Britney Spears, which I get very nervous about.So I figured well it's Britney Spears, kids like her, so take the kids to see her movie.  Both of my kids are 10 years old.  I figured it's PG-13 so three years less wouldn't hurt.For a PG-13 movie, this movie was disturbing.  What was Britney Spears thinking?  I have seen commercials of her dressed like a trashy Barbie doll, but that really didn't bother me, I have seen worse from Madonna during the 80's.However, I watched Crossroads and I was very disturbed by rape, abortions, and young marriage that were involved in this film.  Also, Britney Spears was scripted as a smart young woman, but I guess she lacked in common sense in this film as well.Another thing I hated was, the love scene was way too graphical.  Britney Spears is basically half naked through out the entire movie and when she is in the bedroom making out to her Not a Girl song I was thinking, Maybe Marilyn Manson would be a better role-model than Britney Spears.Well, after coming home from this movie, my two girls were sick of Britney Spears and I really don't blame them; hearing that Not a girl song about thirty times through out the entire movie is enough to make you throw away everything related to Britney Spears.I just want to warn any parent out there that is serious about taking their kids to see a movie without any sexual content or tasteless scenes, DON'T TAKE YOUR KIDS TO CROSSROADS! "}{"Title":"Thanks god my business is not acting!!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  (Britney says...)... But wait a minute! My business is singing... Oh, no! What am i gonna do? Can't I do anything right? Undoubtly, this girl will go downhill as she grows up. Being beautiful may be enough to sell a couple of million records to mindless pre-teens, but it takes something else to last.  "},{"Title":"Not so good","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm the type that loves girlie movies. Normally I would like a movie like this, however, by the middle of the movie my friend and I were laughing at how cheesy this movie was! It just kept getting more and more stupid and predictable. I don't think it had anything to do with Britney...it would be just as stupid with someone else as the main character.  "},{"Title":"Not so good","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm the type that loves girlie movies. Normally I would like a movie like this, however, by the middle of the movie my friend and I were laughing at how cheesy this movie was! It just kept getting more and more stupid and predictable. I don't think it had anything to do with Britney...it would be just as stupid with someone else as the main character.  "},{"Title":"Bad movie, but not Britney's fault","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney deserved a much lighter film debut. This movie tried to tackle too many issues, it wanted to be a drama when it should have just been a light-hearted girl road-trip movie. Britney wasn't bad as an actress, but that Not a Girl song really sucks. Stick to the light-hearted pop, Britney. "},{"Title":"Definately not for those who wish to be intellectually stimulated...","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Fluff.  It's been done before.  We need more films like Memento.  You know, movies that actually make you think!  God forbid we live in a world where we would actually want to nourish our intellect.  Now I know this movie is geared more towards those of the younger generation(s); however, I wouldn't even subject my own daughter to this trite attempt at filmmaking. Not only that, but I think that the subject material is a little too risqué to be exposing to our pre-teen population.  Unfortunately, I was sucked into seeing this film at the urgency of my 12-year-old cousin and her mother.  I know, I feel dirty for my hypocritical action, but she wasn't MY daughter!Yes, perhaps I am providing this review from a slightly biased point of view concerning Britney (considering she receives millions for shooting out a song or two and I don't even make a 1/4 of that working 10-12 hours a day, 5-6 days a week); however, the girl just represents NO source of talent in my eyes.  I mean, look at Barbara Streisand... I can't stand how the woman carries herself in person; however, I think she has a gorgeous voice and is extremely talented.1 out of 10 stars... "},{"Title":"WHY???","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  We all know she can't sing (unless we're tone deaf, that is), and judging from her lame attempts at acting in her music videos, we should all know she can't act!  So why, may I ask, let her star in a movie??  The role was written for her, simply to clean up her now-stained image after she did that video that closely resembled a drunken orgy (Slave 4 U).  This movie sucks!  Just look at the trailor and you can see that. "},{"Title":"WORST MOVIE OF ALL TIME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  this will rank as one of, if not THE, worst movies of all time. Basically a monkey could have written a better script. Britney can't sing, act, or dance. The only reason why people saw this flick is to see her naked. As for why Crossroads made $14 million I say I still can't figure out why Titanic is still the #1 box office hit of all time. "},{"Title":"Just plain awful!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney should just stick to singing since she does that a little better than acting.  She just needs to not waste her time trying.  this movie is soo cheesy, it sucks! Oh, and please, they play N'sync during the whole movie just because Justin's her man.  I definitely think this is not worth spending money for.  She's simply not a good actress, and i dont think she will be. "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, I figured if I could see STRIPTEASE I could stand this.   Afterall, it has Britney Spears and let's face it, she is talented.  However, this movie really fell flat on it's face and truly failed to deliver any goods at all.  It's a lame movie about these friends that get in a car and drive and talk and that's about it.  I was expecting to see some really good scenes with Spears since she is talented.  But this never came to be.  Any men out there who want to see Spears take it off, save your money.  There are no adult scenes in this movie at all.  I wanted to leave the theater  but then again, I wanted to WIN!  I wanted to prove to myself that I could sit through this garbage.  I did and I am a lesser man because of it. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Of The Year","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I went to see this movie I did not expect a whole lot out of it. But, being a teen I had to go see the new teen movie. Let me tell you this movie was so horrible it made me laugh when you shouldn't be laughing. First off Britney Spears's character Lucy is a little too perfect. Of course shes NEVER partied, of course she's the valedvictorian, of course she is the one to break up the fight between her friends, of course she comes through on this singing talent she never knew she had. One of the other characters Mimi of course is the pregnant teen from the trailor park. Typical that they depict all of us as having at least one friend that gets pregnant in high school. Later in the movie you find out that she was raped by the other best friend's (Kit) boyfriend. Wow it all ties together so well! Britney Spears sings that dumb im not a girl song so many times in this movie...its sickening! That is just my shortened view on this movie. I urge no1 to spend their money on watching Britney Spears and a few other horrible actors trying to act.  "}{"Title":"I Can't say enough bad things about this piece of garbage.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is horrible. Wait, not. Horrible is too nice of a word. What I meant to say is this Crossroads is a disgrace to the entire concept of film-making. There are so many more things I could say, but I think you get the point. Aside from the horrible quality of the film, the most tragic thing is that there are (very unfortunate) people who will willingly see this, and think of it as an actually good movie! The thought actually saddens me!Britney please don't ever make movies again! You are not talented! You never were, and you never will be!! "},{"Title":"Thank you my fellow americans!!!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Thank you all for putting this movie at #2 in box office and therefore insuring the future movies made with pop teen stars for no other reason than marketing!  Yes, I wanted to thank each and everyone of you who praised it and kept going back, because without you, we would have more movies with stuff like REAL actors and REAL emotions and REAL plot being made.  God forbid.I don't hate britney spears, I simply don't like her image.  She is like a puppet created simply to appeal through looks.  That's it.  You picture Britney Spears that is a 50 year old obese woman and I'm willing to lay all my down on the table in saying that none of you would listen to her music or most importantly put this damn movie at #2 in box office.This is a sad sad world.  I cannot possibly understand how this movie can be good.  I wasn't going to see it, I was going to simply ignore it and never comment but when I saw the many people here saying how it was great I went.  Maybe there are two crossroads movies out right now and I simply went to the wrong one?  I don't know.  I'm not bashing the actress I'm bashing the movie.  2.6 doesn't do it justice.  This movie is 1 at maximum for the effort.  Assuming there WAS effort.  By the end of the picture there was blood coming out of my eyes from the horrible torture I was put through.  Normally I stray away from bad movies.  I check out the reviews, the ratings, the trailers, and I simply don't go to movies that I even have a slight notion that might be bad.  I should have done the same in this case.  This was too awful. "},{"Title":"LAME! Plotless Garbage.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie has absolutely no entertainment value at all. It must have been written by a 7th grader for 7th graders. There is no plot. None of the characters are believable. I can honestly say that I have not seen a movie this bad in a very long time. There are B horror movies that I prefer over this.  "},{"Title":"Total S**t!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I hate Britney Spear. If you say that this is a good movie... I pitty you! Britney can´t act... or sing. Burn in hell Britney!  "},{"Title":"So bad that it isn't even fun to laugh at.","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Let me start this off by saying that I *like* bad movies. My friends and I will go see movies we know will suck just so we can make fun of them and have a good laugh. It's fun.Crossroads was, however, NOT fun in any capacity.We expected this movie to be an absolute riot, but it's SO BAD that it goes beyond laughable to just sad. It was practically *painful* to sit through, and I know what that's like - I saw Glitter in the theatre. (By the way, as far as laughability, you'd do better renting Glitter - it's at least fun to laugh at.)I am not a Britney Spears fan by any means. I don't think she can sing at all and honestly she's not even really that great looking or interesting in any way. If you even feel apathy on the subject of Britney Spears this movie will force her down your throat so much that by the end you will really hate her. It's so painfully obvious that this is just a vehicle for her celebrity that it feels like an hour and a half long music video instead of a movie. Her character is supposed to be this shy virginal valedictorian, yet the movie provides every opportunity for her to sing or dance around in her underwear, just like every video Britney's ever made. Zzzzz.Her acting is horrible, but even if it were good you wouldn't know because the scenes where any serious acting should take place are cut short so they can cut to another singing or underwear scene. The other actors, honestly, are equally as horrible and forced me and my friends to come to the conclusion that they must have cast bad actors on purpose in an attempt to make Britney look better. I will say though that one scene - the scene where Britney reads the lyrics to one of her songs as poetry to the boy - was one of the more hilarious things I've seen, even if it wasn't *intentionally* funny.I wonder what Britney's friends and family or fellow celebrities said to her after the premiere of this monumental bore...did they just have to force a well, it was...interesting! so to not hurt her feelings? I mean, I have a feeling that even her die-hard fans will recognize that this movie is a piece of crap. In our theatre alone 5 or 6 teenagers walked out in the middle, and I expected the legions of her teenage fans to love this no matter what.Honestly, it's HORRIBLE. A bore from beginning to end. The endless driving scenes make the hour and a half seem like days or weeks. I would say oh well, Britney should sick to singing, but I don't think she can do that either. I wish she would just go away full stop and let Mariah Carey make movies that at least make us laugh really hard. "},{"Title":"Terrible...","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Everyday, thousands of actors look for work and can't find it. People with actual talent are tossed aside in favor of vapid and talentless popstars like Britney Spears. She can't even sing, and that's her 'job.' Who told her she could act? Her lip-synching is not even very convincing. Being in a film (even a really crappy one like this) is a big deal, and tons of other actors would have jumped at the chance. But no, they give the part to the pop tart just because she'll pull in the teenyboppers and sex crazed boys.  "},{"Title":"Makes Glitter look like an Oscar Contender","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Makes Glitter look like an Oscar Contender. Enough said. The entire concept is campy. Not even a Wait for Video. I bet Ebert loves it. Poor acting, shameless product promotion, not enough plot to be interesting. Stay at the microphone Brittney, stay out of cinema. "},{"Title":"Beware! Vapid Garbage Ahead.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Let's just get this out of the way; Britney wasn't that bad, the role she played was written specifically for her so in essence she was just memorizing lines.I've been a big anti-teen movie person since I was ... well a teen. They all dump the same truckload of horrible, indigestible, cliché problems on a group of unlucky (although horribly bland) teens. This pile of wasted celluloid is no different, this time the Hollywood machine takes on such deep topics as teen pregnancy, losing your friends while in school, and of course how to come up with gas money while on a road trip (gag).I think the worst part has to be the horrendous dialogue. Even with noticeable faces (Kim Cattrall, Dan Aykroyd & of course Ms. Spears) it isn't enough to distract you from lines like Yeah and That's true placed within the (quasi) heart felt moments. Every part in the film could have been played by a balloon; with a face drawn on it and a tape recorder tied to the bottom. Then I think you would have had an original movie.Well, Britney. All I can say is at least it wasn't Glitter.  "},{"Title":"Please, no more.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A horrible movie. I use the word movie loosely. To sum up the problems as such Not for once did I believe Britney as a study nerd. Also, all of the scenes that would require her to actually act or show emotional range are strangely cut out. We are treated to the emotional moments AFTERMATH instead -- they talk about the pain they felt, but you never see it. Perhaps this was to spare the audience the pain of seeing Britney flex her acting chops.Also strange for the pop princesses movie debut is the inclusion of teenage pregnancy, date rape, teenage sex, and underage drinking. None of these topics are addressed in a mature way, but rather dealt with either off-screen or glossed over within a few minutes time. It was worse than the classic After School Specials many of us grew up with. Nevertheless, I will never, ever again be dragged to a film she is in in my lifetime. Thank god I was at least spared from Glitter. "},{"Title":"These Crossroads Lead to a Dead End.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There is only one redeeming quality to this film, Britney, and her good looks.  Britney's body is exploited, as usual, very quickly into the film.  To my dismay, the only two occurrences of this happen in the first 10 minutes of the film.  In the opening scene she is dancing in her underwear, and in a later scene she is seen again in her underwear about to loose her so called `virginity' to her lab partner of three years.  It's really sad that these are the only good things to come out of this movie. 	Crossroads is the acting debut for the one called Britney Spears.  Shonda Rhimes, who has no previous writing experience, wrote the Crossroads story.  I have read rumors that Shonda wrote the story specifically for Britney as the lead character.  Tamra Davis, who has such gems as Half Baked and Billy Madison under her belt, directs Crossroads.  There are no other notables involved with this film, because let's face it; the only reason one would see this movie is for Britney.  Justin Long of Jeepers Creepers fame does make an appearance however.  It is also rumored that he tried out for the role of Henry as a joke, and to his and everyone else's surprise somehow got the role.  He thought that it was the chance of a lifetime to have the opportunity to kiss Britney, and have it immortalized on video.  He made the same choice that any other male would have made, and chose to accept the role. 	I interpret Crossroads as a semi-fictional biography of Britney Spears.  I guess it can be comparable to Mariah Carey's Glitter.  Apparently it is up to the viewer to determine what to take as fact and what to deem fiction. 	The demographic of people in the theater ranged from 15-year-old girls to 16 year old girls.  Big surprise, huh?  I thought I was alone when I didn't take Britney Spears seriously, but guess again.  You would think that Crossroads was intended to be a comedy from all the laughter that occurred.  I can tell that Britney put 110% of her acting ability into making this film.  It's too bad that it will never be good enough.  Britney does not posses the charisma or ability to be an actor.  She just cannot achieve movie stardom because she does not posses any potential to do so.  During Britney's big scene, she attempts to show her sensitive side and cry, yet, no waterworks are involved.  The entire theater was in an uproar of laughter during this scene.  I found myself laughing at the fact that Britney is a joke to not only me, but also everyone else.  The only reason to see this film is if you absolutely cannot get enough of Britney, and her twins.  That's it. 	The movie also attempts to cover five season's worth of 7th Heaven life controversies in 90 minutes.  The movie deals with running away from home, premarital sex, underage drinking, abortion, miscarriages, cheating, `fitting in', rape, and so many more.  There are just too many to list.  I mainly have a problem with the premarital sex, and underage drinking.  Girls who look up to Britney as a role model are being sent the wrong message.  Britney's character tells us that it is all right to have premarital sex, as long as it is with someone special.  Her character also tells us that underage drinking is fine too.  Whoops, looks like someone made a mistake. 	 I am hoping and praying that this is the first and last movie project fueled by Britney Spears.  I am also only giving her one more album release before she poses in Playboy to try and revitalize her career.  Let's all try and pretend that this movie was never made, because I sure would. 			Grade F  "}{"Title":"dont waste ur time watching this movie","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i thought this movie would be good and i could enjoy it on the weekend but this movies is boring.its really not good stuff to watch.belive me.i went with y friends and they were cursing me for bringing them to such a movie.i was feeling ashamed.dont go to watch this movie please its a request. "},{"Title":"This was Bad!!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie fools everyone. The previews says it all about a fun loving group of three girls who go on a road trip and experience life...NOT!!! This movie is mostly about teen drinking and sex!! When I saw the movie there were so many young kids in the theater with their parents who probably had no idea what the movie was about. Britney Spears should have told what the movie was really about. I give it no stars and three thumbs down!!!I suggest A Walk to Remember.. Which also has a pop princess but Mandy Moore is a MUCH better actress and is a much better role model in her movie.P.S. Britney Spears should get some acting lessons!!!!! "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made?","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this film because I know someone who knows someone who was in it (not Ms. Spears). It was so horrible it made me question not just the future of human civilization, but also our ability to exist as free-willed individuals. I was trying to figure out if there was a message beyond the corporate-industrial command to purchase more Britney products, but I don't think there was. It was as close as I have ever come to understanding what it must be like to listen to Vogon poetry. "},{"Title":"Britney, Stick w/ the Singing!!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Though this movie surprisingly turned out better than I had expected, it still lacked a degree of reality. This movie had too much drama and too many convinences to be considered a real movie. Also, Britney Spears focuses on her problems and allows the spotlight to be on only her throughout the movie. I think Britney should do us all a favor, and stick with the singing. "},{"Title":"I shouldn't even get started, but here I go...","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's a shame that I only have 1,000 words to blast this movie.  To all the people who think this is a good film, have you ever seen anything else?  I work in a video store, and I have to say that I could close my eyes, in the B-movie section, pick a movie that is dubbed in English, and watch it on a VCR that has no tracking, on a bad acid trip and enjoy it more.  Everyone keeps talking about Glitter.  Crossroads and Glitter may be similar in the fact that singers need to stick to singing, but at least Mariah Carey can sing!!!  One final thought Britany's bubble gum pop is bad enough, but when she destroys good songs such as I Love Rock and Roll, her lack of talent is very apparent. "},{"Title":"Britney should stick to singing.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was dragged to this movie by a few friends of mine.  It was the cheesiest movie I have ever seen.  It was a cross of so many other movies.  It was totally unoriginal. My idea was to go bowling instead of seeing the movie. My advice to anyone who wants to go see this movie go bowling instead. "},{"Title":"laughably horrible","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is almost as painfully bad and funny as Battlefield Earth, and Britney as opposed to John Travolta is definitely a plus. The plot is ridiculous to say the least, and the dialogue made me want to yak. To its credit, the movie is quite funny. Much of the audience (including myself) was laughing constantly, only not at the parts that were supposed to be funny. It really is THAT bad. If you have a thing for painfully horrible movies, go see Crossroads; you won't be disappointed. This is without a doubt, the worst movie I've ever paid to see, but all the laughs were worth it for me.  "},{"Title":"Ed Wood couldn't have come close to making a movie this bad.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  As a human (and film student) i am wondering how this got made. Battlefield earth was better. To those of you who went go to see this waste of money (and those that saw a free preview) go to the box office and demand your money back. mind you this is coming from a person who liked monkey bone(yes I know that it wasn't a good film) "},{"Title":"Glitter 2002","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is so awful that I am nearly at a loss for words.  Before you dismiss my comments as those of yet another Britney basher, let me make it clear that I adore Britney.  I own all her CDs and go see her in concert. I should have loved this movie - it only had to be mediocre to satisfy me with the inherent bias I have in her favor.  Alas, she managed to only produce a pile of drivel so bad that I can't imagine it even having been considered for a made-for-TV movie.  The plot, subplots, pacing, character development - all terrible.  The two times we get to bask in the warm  glow of her underwear scenes cannot even begin to alleviate the queasiness that slowly builds as the movie drags along more predictable than a Mike Tyson fight.Save your money and use it to see A Walk to Remember - a movie where the better pop singer, Mandy Moore, really does shine in a movie that while predictable has heart. "},{"Title":"There's not one... But TWO...","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Sex scenes in Brit's new movie Crossroads And I thought she was supposed to be a virgin... Lyin' witch... I guess you can't tell the liars and cheats from the honest and HUMBLE... I'm a virgin and damn proud of it. I hate how Hollywood makes seem like it's uncool to be one. Well, I think it's an honor, and I'm waiting until I get a ring on left finger... "}{"Title":"This is what is wrong with movies today.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First of all, I got dragged to this movie.  Secondly, Britney Spears has no right to make a movie.  I don't even think she has talent as a singer. Don't get me wrong...she is a very beautiful woman.  She's drop dead gorgeous.  But take that away and what do you get.  Think about it.  If she wasn't the pretty little thing that she is - would she be selling records? Of course not.  That's what is wrong with the music and movie business today.  It's not about making a good film and entertaining people anymore. It's all about the money.  This movie is a piece of crap that proves my point ot the max.  Britney was the smartest one out of her group of friends there in this movie.  That was the funniest thing I have ever seen.  Not only was it unbelievable, but it insulted my intelligence.  I know I shouldn't let it get to me because I know that this movie wasn't targeted towards me but I am a big cinema guy and I respect great works of filmmaking and this is a harsh slap in the face.  Hollywood - you should be ashamed of yourself. "},{"Title":"A root canal is more fun than this movie.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I would say that this movie is the biggest piece of crap I've ever seen, but that would be an insult to pieces of crap. Yes, I, a guy, sat through it- looking back, I don't know how I did it. Possibly a combination of strong sedatives and handcuffs. Why did I go see it? Simply put, my girlfriend dragged me to it, kicking and screaming. That's the only logical reason for any guy to see it (or any human being, for that matter). This was evidenced by the fact that the theater I was sitting in was comprised of 90% giggling girls between the ages of 12 and 17, and the last 10% was guys who had been dragged there and had the same deer-in-the-headlights look on their face that I no doubt had on mine.This movie is god-awful in so many different ways, but let us begin with Titney, I mean Britney Spears. Her acting ability is about on the same level as her singing boring, unoriginal, completely devoid of talent. Her idea of a Southern accent is to throw in a y'all here and there (does anybody on this planet actually use that word?). She flashes her bare midriff, her cleavage, and her plastic smile every five seconds. Yes, she is good-looking and all that, but that doesn't stop her from being annoying and talentless in this movie. What else does the movie do wrong? Other than Dan Ackroyd, there isn't one member of the cast that doesn't look like a model (even the school nerd has perfect abs); every character is a broad caricature (the Handsome But Mysterious Guy, The Spunky Black Girl, The Perfect But Insecure Class Valedictorian, etc.). I could go on and on. Put simply, there isn't one moment in this movie worth watching, so PLEASE, don't waste your hard-earned money on it like I did. "},{"Title":"Crap! Waste of $$$","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What a horrible movie! Besides the point that britney spears is a horrible actress. What a lame excuse of a movie. MTV should just stay away from movies, because they all suck! I saw so much pink I thought I would puke! The story was lame and predictable. The only thing that made this worth my while was, everyone talking crap in the movie theatre about it. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads is the worst movie ever. The script,characters,and acting is bad. Britney Spears should stick to singing. Acting is not her calling. Not to be mean or anything but I do Not recommend this movie at all. Save your money. I wished I had. "},{"Title":"I wanted to shoot myself","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What a horrible movie. I wanted to shoot myself.Thats all I have to say Im sorry for those who liked it, thats fine, but for me....Im just going to go home and watch a good movie.... "},{"Title":"commercialism","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to this movie knowing it wasn't going to be the best.  It was a terrible movie.  The plot never concluded, it was poorly written.  It was created mostly as a Britney Spears commercial, having all the products that she endorses included in the film.  They had to show her in her underwear just to get guys to go, and the issues they deal with are definately not for her young audience.  Please don't go see this movie!  Go see In The Bedroom or Monsters Ball please, Crossroads is a definate win for next years razzies. "},{"Title":"TERRIBLE!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie today and it was so terrible! Lil Miss Britney was too worried about looking cute in the movie instead of trying to make the movie better then what it was, and doing the most hard thing in the world (in her case)....ACTING! If she couldn't act on SNL, then what made her think she could act in a movie on the Big Screen. The plot of the movie was very stupid, although this movie is only going to do well because of all the britney fans out there. There are only a few singers out there that are on my list that can act, and Britney has definitely been crossed out! "},{"Title":"The end of the world must be upon us.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If the previews didn't actually make the movie LESS appealing than it already is, I hope this review helps you a little more definite in your decision of NOT TO GO.  I saw this movie at an advanced screening a month ago and I honestly think the script was written in less than a week.  To be honest, the ONLY reason there's ANY hype about this movie is that it has Britney Spears in her first film.  Who cares???  How about we leave the hype for the first GOOD film Britney makes?*** Spoilers (but who cares) *** In the film, Britney and her airhead friends go on a road trip with this complete stranger (who just happens to be an ex-convict as well).  Over the course of an extremely skanky four days, she manages to get this guy in the sack and they fall in love.  Anson Mount's performance is just as terrible as Britney's, just listen to some of the terrible lines he puts out in this film.  They make him out to be a complete idiot, and succeed.If you really need to see a teen pop idol movie, treat yourself to the more talented singer-gone-actress, Mandy Moore's movie.  Her film, A Walk To Remember, is actually worthy of seeing and her acting in that film far outstretched what I thought she was capable of.I wish I had more good things to say about the film.  I suppose you could argue that the music is good in the film.  Or you could lie and say that Britney is a good actress.  Either way, you're being dishonest with yourself.Hey, but you don't have to take my word for it...just read the other reviews, they speak for themselves.-eric "},{"Title":"No such thing as a 'good wholesome teen movie'...or a rock star/actor nowadays!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I won't put such persons as David Bowie or Alice Cooper or Madonna on that category since they're more showmen than just a 'rock star/actor'. Entertaining people is in their blood and they can get away with much worse than Britney's attempt at acting.Let's face it, kids. The best time where Britney should've done this was about two or three years ago, back when people didn't have a case of 'Bash Britney With A Two By Four' and when she kept about 50% of her clothes on. Not anymore. She's burned all her bridges (and a good number of her bras) on this turkey that has the sickly sweet smell of decaying plot and dead performance. Cripes, even her 'singing' is stale in this picture which is a stunning accomplishment considering the material she usually uses. I don't know why today's girls consider this woman as a role model even when she herself says she isn't. I'd rather put my money on a Mandy Moore affair since she did go the extra mile for her role and bothered to learn something about the girl she played even going as far as dyeing her hair brown. That kind of dedication I respect, even if I can't stand her music. Ms. Moore can go far if she gives a similiar effort on her next picture.As for Britney...well, there's always that topless Vegas lounge act. (Considering how her stock is dropping with the mainstream, that's about all she'll ever be.) "},{"Title":"1- for Awful....","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The worse Movie ever...! Sure to win all raspberry awards for performance and all around. Worse than Kung Pow, Coyote Ugly and Glitter. Her acting ability is worse than Madonna . "}{"Title":"A surprisingly bad movie","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Very disappointing! Why did Brittany Spears do this movie? It's badly  acted, and directed, and the storyline is weak, all the actresses come across as sappy, Spears should stick to singing, and Davis should not direct. Enough of movies where singers try to act! "},{"Title":"I knew it would suck but not this much","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw Crossroads at a screening in Los Angeles. Britney can not act worth a damn. I already knew she was a terrible singer but as an actor she is a lot more terrible. If I were to rate this terrible movie I would give it a -100/10. Britney stick to singing plese. "},{"Title":"Whoever green-lighted this should be kicked in the face.","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was one of the lucky people who got to see a free screening of this movie on Wednesday, February 13, and as a result wasted 90 minutes of my life that I will never get back.  I honestly do not despise Britney Spears; while I see her as just another disposable face in the dying music industry, but she certainly does not belong on the silver screen.Crossroads is another movie following the same, tired teen road movie formula.  It has your geeky ugly girl that will soon blossom into a beautiful woman, the sassy black girl, the mysterious guy with bad hair, and a new element, the white trash chick.  While the plot is paper thin and predictable (how shocking), it also tries to gain credibility by tackling issues such as child abandonment, teen pregnancy, and even rape.  These events are force fed upon the viewer and merely expose the movie as the superficial marketing ploy it truly is.And that's basically all this movie is, a giant commercial.  Britney's new CD is especially forced upon the viewer as they are subjected to three renditions of Not A Girl, Not Yet A Woman and an atrocious cover of I Love Rock 'n Roll that proves Joan Jett is low on cash.  The acting is yet another horrible aspect of this film.The saddest part is, Britney isn't even the worst actress in the movie, Taryn Manning's portrayal of Mimi is something that would make Shelly Duvall look like Jodie Foster.  Anson Mount, who plays Ben seems to be bored out of his skull the entire movie, and it's downright depressing to see Dan Aykroyd reduced to acting in a movie like this.I knew going into the theater this movie would be an abomination, and it certainly lived up to my expectations.  There are plenty of other movies to spend $8.75, I would highly suggest not wasting it on this garbage. Certainly it's not as bad as Glitter, but it's damn near close.  Britney Spears needs to stay as far away from film as possible, as well as most other pop musicians (I'm looking at you NSync).Overall Rating  * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Hollywood Exploits Fame","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Once again, Hollywood finds the most popular pop music star, puts them in a hastily, poorly written script and lets loose. Remember back in '91 when Vanilla Ice was put in Cool As Ice? That's pretty much the same thing here. This film has no story, no plot, no character development, just Britney Spears in front of the camera for a couple hours. Whoever wrote this junk knew Spears could not act and inevitably attempted to cover it all up with...surprise...her music. It doesn't help. Equally as poor as Mariah Carrey's Glitter last year. And to think, I went out of my way to see this movie in a special screening so I could find something good to review in singers-turned-actors films. But obviously, Crossroads wasn't the best place to start. --Bud Sturguess, Texas "},{"Title":"WOW, this film is Awful.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads is one of the tritest, most ridiculous films I have ever seen or experienced.  That is also part of the reason why everyone who has ever seen Britney or heard one of her songs and is aware of her cultural identity should see this movie, granted you sneak in while buying a ticket for Gosford Park or Lord of the Rings.  It is just undescribably amusing to watch her make an absolute fool out of herself, singing Madonna (obvious underlying message here) and acting less convincingly than Gwyneth Paltrow playing Satan. Guilty pleasure?  It's not good enough to call it that, but nonetheless it's fun to laugh at...with your friends, and with a whole LOT of snacks at your side to either a.  gorge on and drown your sorrows at the fact that this film was made, or b.  to throw at the screen or the 12 year-old girls crying in front of you...in protest. Truly awful.  But at least the outfits were better than in that HIDEOUS HBO special.  Go Britney. "},{"Title":"one of the worst movies of all time...","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, I saw this movie about three or four months ago at an advance screening for the film.  I wasn't really expecting anything great, but I wasn't expecting one of the worst movies ever made...and before I go on about the movie, I would think that paramount would be able to at least make a good looking trailer for it, but no, the trailer is almost just as bad as the movie...but anyway, Britney isn't that bad an actor, neither are any of the others in the film, but the script is just horrid.  There was one funny line in the entire movie, and it was only funny because it was lame...although I will say it is the funniest dumb line from any movie. When you see the movie, the line I am talking about is when the four our looking out over the desert, and Britney says something about church...best line ever...but back onto the film, horrid script, some horrid acting...Kim Catrell...horrid directing...and horrid marketing...The movie want to be a comedy, but isn't, and wants to be dramatic, but isn't.  This is just all together a horrible, horrible movie.  I would go see it anyways, because you can say that you have seen the worst movie ever, or close to.  Oh, and one redeeming value to the movie, if you are a guy, is Britney is almost nude like two times, very nice.   "},{"Title":"Opps!  She'll probably do it again...","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Let us bow our heads and pray for the soul of the executive who green lighted this project.  Awful does not even begin to describe this movie. Spears is marketing this movie to children.  BEWARE!  There are serious sexual and violent themes that children under the age of 13 probably should not see including ms. spears getting it on with an ex con!  Parents of 11 to 15 year old girls ms. spears' fan base, should beware!  The story is stupid and the acting is just god-awful.  I really thought that spears would be able to act but alas.... just another Madonna (only Madonna finally learned how to sing). I had a lot of trouble paying attention to the whole thing because it was just that bad. Don't waste your money, fortunately (or unfortunately) I was invited to a sneak preview.  What a waste of film! How the hell do films like this one ever get made? In closing this film made Glitter look like an Oscar contender! To ms spears,  congratulations on your first razzie!  "},{"Title":"Worse then even I expected","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  We live here in Louisiana, and saw a special screening.  Well this movie is an 11 on the predictable scale and a 100 on the sucks scale.  Someone (we all know who) needs some acting lessons real real bad.  I knew this movie would be bad, but, God I will be having nightmares about it for weeks. Thank God it was a free screening.  But we all know since its Britney it will make a lot of money cause there are many brainless young girls out their. "},{"Title":"Recycled Idea along with a Popstar who shouldn't be paid a dime to act...","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Anson Mount, you had common sense. You shouldn't have taken this role. Sure Robert De Niro maybe a Hollywood heavyweight, but as Truman Capote said, when you enter Hollywood, you automatically lose two points of your IQ.Three friends get together and bury a box making a pact to open it at midnight at their high school graduation. In the little town in Georgia that they live in, things soon change. One is little miss perfect, one is an engaged prom queen, and the other is a pregnant outcast. The night of graduation, they open the box and they strike up a conversation. All of a sudden, one brings up the topic of her going to Los Angeles for a record contract audition. They all decide to go together and they leave. With a little money, they set out on the road with a guy named Ben. When one of them tells the other a rumor that he might be a homicidal maniac they are all scared of him. When they reach LA, Lucy (Britney Spears) falls in love with Ben and against her father's wishes, she stays and she goes to the audition. Yes, it does sound enduring...and sickening! I mean come on, as soon as you cast Britney Spears, your movie will automatically become a box office failure. This is why no one saw it. Plus, how many times has this been used? The movie didn't leave me with the impression that it was heartfelt, it just made me noxious. I mean, everyone is entitled to their own opinion, but I think everyone agrees that this movie wouldn't do anyone good! Does the director think we're stupid? Does he think that we'd actually go see this? (I didn't go see it; my little sister was begging for it. But at the end, she regretted it) God....why did you let Hollywood do this? "},{"Title":"not very impressive","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" well, l don't think its as bad as many make it seem. okay, that am not a gal, not yet a woman scene is just fake cos l don't see how she automatically got the song before hearing the music and sincerely that song does not pass for a poem either. and the love scene, was she shy to play sex online? but it not too bad, and l don't seem to fall for the karaoke scene either, where Mimi let her sing the lead, if its Mimi song, how come she knew it so perfectly? though l comment her on the obedient daddy's girl scenes, they were not too bad. l think its just entertaining for 13teens. though its not on my last 100 entertaining list but l wouldn't mind watching it again. guess Brit should stay outta movies, her songs just good for her. "}{"Title":"Very sucky movie","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is so awful, it's so un-realistic. Not to mention the very first scene (aside from the intro about the wish box) was of Britney Spears dancing around in her underwear. What is that telling someone about this movie? ...But then again maybe that's why this movie is so well liked. When Lucy (Britney Spears) is with her 2 friends a cut out scene for this movie (which can be viewed in the DVD version) was of them knocking on peoples doors and flashing them...was that really necessary? I can only say that I am glad they did not show that in the movie. When people watch movies they expect to feel like they are in the movie and they can laugh and they can cry, but it is very hard to feel anything with this movie except disappointment. This movie is a pathetic attempt to make the story look as real as possible and it looks nothing realistic. I recommend this movie to no one. "},{"Title":"Sent Me To Hell and Back","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Crossroads sent me to hell and back. It Bored me to death. Then to make things work it resurrected me and was still playing. Why couldn't it leave me dead? I would've been a lot better off than watching this crap. Britney wasn't that bad (compared to what i would expect anyway), the one with the annoying voice who couldn't talk properly (she couldn't even have a lisp correctly) just made me want to stick kitchen utensils in my eyes and ears. I don't know why i didn't stop the tape mid-film and destroy it. I think it paralysed me. My Sister still loves it for some inexplainable reason. 2/10. Yaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaawn. "},{"Title":"Heh............... what a spoiled whore Britney Spears has become","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" As though it's not enough that she can't sing, Britney Spears has decided that she also cannot act, and has set about proving this to anyone capable of wasting 7.50 on her garbage. Of course, the plot is that 3 friends travel across the country, and want to win a stupid contest and hit it big. Too bad contest's require at least minimal skill, including the ability to sing dance, and not act like a stupid, spoiled whore. OOPS! Three out of three! Britney Spears struck out with this film, after producing multiple albums with other people's songs redone in shoddier, cheaper versions, and asking Hugh Heffner for a wopping 100 million for a center fold pose. Sorry Britney, but it's no wonder your fans are all but a dream now. "},{"Title":"Britney - Don't give up the day job","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I have seen this film twice, and I think that the only redeeming feature about it is Taryn Manning's acting. She was the only interesting actress and character out of the three main characters - her monologue in the hospital scene actually made me cry, it was so touching. Following Taryn, I thought Zoe Saldana was quite good too, despite her character being the token bitch. The plot line was weak, and the script even weaker. And don't even TALK about Britney's acting. If all she wanted was some cheap publicity, then she got it. She should definitely stick to singing - watching her acting is like slow torture. Dan Akroyd is a good actor though, and he shouldn't have even considered being in this film - it'll be a black mark on his career.Anyone wanting to see the movie - please reconsider - it's an hour and a half of your life you'll never get back. "},{"Title":"Lived up to Expectations!","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Yea, it did INDEED live up to expectations! I expected to get violently ill when watching the movie, and I did!! How can anyone say anything positive about this movie is beyond me. Were they in a coma while watching?!?? Speaking of coma, I wish that I would have fell into one while watching this movie. As someone already said, the whole movie was about promoting and kissing the ass of Brittany Spears. Which, by the way, I would LOVE to do. But that's not here nor there.I wish that singers (should we call Brittany that? I don't know) would stick to singing and ruining their lives via drugs. Instead they have to ruin OUR lives by putting out this crap. Am I the only one upset that she is trying to ruin our lives? Can someone give me an answer? I was on the verge of choking on my own vomit before I had to run out of the theater to find a toilet. The only way that I want to see Brittany Spears again are in the pages of Playboy.To those of you who give this movie more than 2 stars - please jump off a 10 story building or something, you're bringing down the average IQ of the world.DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"could it get any worse?","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think of myself as a movie lover.and for that reason i watch as many as i can. even those that get bad reviews. i think they all deserve a chance. so i watched this movie. to be honest i knew it would suck, an me and me friend only watched because we wanted to make fun of Brittney. I've seen worse. and I've seen BETTER! If you are a fan of Brittney you'll probably like it. if you are a guy you'll probably like(for obvious reasons and the opening scene). if you are a movie critic you probably won't like it(as many before didn't). the most that you'll get from this movie is a good laugh and if you're sentimental a bonding experience with whoever you're watching it with(me and me friend didn't get that, but we did get the first thing) i'm not going to lie to you_after the first part of the movie i wanted to shot myself(or the person that convinced me to watch it) simply because it got so sweet that i could feel a toothache coming-but if u like that kind of stuff, and if u really REALLY like Brittney(even when she still wore some clothes) you should see this movie! soHIGHLY RECOMMENDED(NOT)  "},{"Title":"Very bad (spoilers)","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just caught Crossroads on the TV tonight, and I was curious if it's really as bad as people say. It is. These kind of movies are disgrace to the cinema. You might enjoy it if you're Britney Spears fan or below age of 14. If you're not and still think it's good, you need therapy ASAP. Reading comments here, I just couldn't believe some people actually think this movie has some depth. What??? They put everything in 90 or so minutes growing up, relationship between friends, relationship between parents and children, first love, rape, teen pregnancy... Each of this issues is so complex it deserves its own movie. So if you try to deal with all of them in one movie, of course it turns out shallow and ridiculous. For example, Mimi lost her unborn child. Something like that would leave a scar for life. But few days later, she's partying and singing back vocals at audition. Movie trivialized the issue so much it's disgusting. I know it wasn't supposed to be a heavy drama, but why putting rape and miss-carriage in the movie at all? They could easily avoid it and with that actually improve the movie by making it more believable. Another thing - all three girls experienced some very traumatic moments (Lucy rejected by her own mother, Mimi lost a child, Kit is cheated by her fiance), but this things don't change them at all. At the end of the movie they are completely the same as at the beginning.The vast amount of cliches in this movie is overwhelming and characters are completely two-dimensional. I must say I agree with reviews which say this movie is rated so low just because Britney Spears appears in it. But she brought that to herself. I never disliked her, I actually kinda liked some of her songs (it's decent pop), but after I saw the movie, I'm starting to. Lucy played by Britney is so smart, lovely, cute, full of values and virtues, she never say or does anything wrong. Miss Spears probably wants us to believe she's like that in real life. Besides, if she wants to be taken seriously as an actress, she shouldn't sing in her movie. That said, I must admit she actually wasn't that bad. I haven't seen many popcorn teen movies, but I remember seeing 10 things I hate about you and I wouldn't say actress in leading role was in any way much better than Britney. Interesting, one scene in which we could find out more about Britney's acting abilities wasn't showed on the screen. I'm talking about her mother telling her she didn't want her in the first place, that she was a mistake. That scene would require some convincing acting to be believable, and I can't help wondering if they deliberately didn't include it because Britney wasn't capable of doing it. But okay, that's just a speculation.So, final conclusion Movie is very bad, at times plain ridiculous, but it shouldn't be on worst movies list, or to put it differently if this movie deserves to be on that list, then most of teen movies should also. "},{"Title":"...","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Why does Hollywood encourage non-actors to act? I hate that money is a primary motivator in these dealings and not talent. Don't try and use B.S. (and it's funny her initials spell what she is) as a spokesperson for my generation. She can't sing and she certainly can't act. I regret ever putting my eyes through the torture of seeing this. It's bad, dumb, boring, etc. Don't waste your time. I don't care about any of the characters. It's like a bio of her. It's irritating. And of course, no movie is complete without hearing her squawk, I mean sing. Sorry if you're a fan, but I'm entitled to my opinion. I don't bash you for being a fan, so don't bash me for not being one. She represents everything I despise about the entertainment world at large.  "},{"Title":"AWFUL, NOT BAD, AWFUL!!!!!!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Certain people have dedicated their whole lives to writing beautiful, nuanced screenplays and recognizing the art and craft within screenwriting. And many people have dedicated their live to pursuing thespian roles and understanding the craft. Britney Spears is not one of them. She has hot abs, so she got to pitch and idea and then star in it. I watched this film on HBO and I was close to peeing my pants due to the ridiculousness of it.Full of stereotypical characters will dull problems. Melodramatic, whiny, and stupid. Dialogue is trite, camera work sucks, and worst of all the directing is obvious. This movie takes itself way too serious. Elvis movies are better than this film.One scene will tell all Britney reads a poem, about not being a girl and not yet a woman. Some dude they picked up comes in and tells her he played guitar while she was reciting her poem. He tells her she should try singing the poem, while he plays. She balks, and then sings, hey who would have realized she is a great singer? Crap like that will destory Western Civilization as we know it.Boycott this film and pray that deserving actors, writers, and directors will see money and be able to make their films. This is so awful, it is not even worth watching to laugh. Glitter, is a more noble film than this.  "},{"Title":"What the...?","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, I was dragged to this movie and I'm still twitching 2 years later. How bad an actor do you have to be to get a film? That's what Hollywood has been reduced to seriously. Be cute, act dumb. That's Silvertown's motto. Britney can't sing OR act, what a shocker. I knew this movie would be dumb. Why was Kim Catrall in this movie? Stick to Sex and the City, please! Zoe Saldana irritates me cuz I can't stand her overarched eyebrows and stale acting. The concept was absolutely ridiculous. I'm gonna drive far away to go sing. Umm...try the local malls first. Less gas. It was an excuse to put her in different outfits and showcase her horrible singing ability, if you could call it that. It's not coming of age or feel good, it's vomit worthy. "}{"Title":"Complete Trash","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was complete trash. I can't believe that parents actually let their kids watch this movie! Spears is supposed to be a role model. I don't think dressing sleazy and dancing around a stripper's pole is something that I want to see my 8 year old daughter doing in ten years. I can't comment too much on what I hated about it, without revealing to many spoilers. I didn't like Spears quest to become a woman. There's teenage pregnancy. And of course we have 3 teenagers completely defying their parent wishes and running away from home. The acting was horrible and over dramatic. The plot line of the pregnant girl is tragic. It's not meant for children to see, let alone understand. Most of Spears fans are young girls, not adults. It's hard to believe that she didn't that little girls would want to go see her film. Please, do not waste your time seeing this film. 90 minutes of the weather channel would be more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Like, OMG! OMG! EEEEEEE! Like, no way!","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ohmigod, I had to comment. Like, ohmigod. I'm commenting! Like OMG ~!! EEEEEEEEEEE!! Ohmigod, wow.Okay, finished with the ditzy thing now.This movie was HILARIOUS. And NOT in the good way. My friend and I were getting over being sick, so we rented a movie to make us laugh. THIS WAS FUNNY. I loved the part at the end, when she's singing on stage, and her sleeves are like 12 feet long, flapping around everywhere... I thought my friend was going to hyperventilate laughing so hard. Me, I was laughing myself to tears. We were also probably really doped up on decongestants, but it was still REALLY funny.Check it out for a good laugh. And sorry all you guys, there are no Britney-dancing-wildly-topless scenes... *snort*I'm not even going to bother rating this. Seriously. That bad.(BTW... what the hell was Dan Akroyd doing in this movie?! Dan, you put classic SNL to shame!!) "},{"Title":"waste of time and money!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I HATED this movie. Just because Britney Spears can sing (i don't think she can) doesn't mean she can act. The acting was horrible, the story was predictable and pointless. It was just like one of the Olsen Twins movies...I think the music was annoying and the characters had no depth. This movie was a waste of my time and my money. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Better","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to see this film with very high expectations and came out really disappointed. I mean what a piece of crap. Don't get me wrong now, I really like Britney Spears but I just think she could've found a better script. I mean this movie...it seems they just put it together in like 5 minutes, also the writing didn't have a lot of emotion in it. All in all the only people who will like this film are the Britney fans. Hopefully next time, Brit won't disappoint me. 5 stars. "},{"Title":"So bad it's funny","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have to admit that as bad as this movie was, I really enjoyed watching it. It's diffinetly the best bad movie I've seen in a real long time. Britney's acting hasn't improved all that much since her Mickey Mouse Club days which wasn't all that good to begin with. I felt no connection to any of the characters and therefore did not rejoice with their triumps and mourn with their defeats. It was one of those movies that tried so very hard to be taken as a serious movie. So hard that it pulled out every steriotypical movie stunt it could to get the academy's attention. Though I expected poor acting from Britney, I expected better from her singing, which for a pop icon like her, was very disappointing. That all said, it was so dramatic and amature that I couldn't help but laughing all the way through it. As long as you take it for what it is (A Britney Spears Movie), it can be a very enjoying bonding experience for you and your friends. Not to mention, if you rent the dvd, you can enjoy the sing along with britney programs. If you're brave enough to watch this awful movie, make sure you watch it with friends. "},{"Title":"Sommary  How do Dan Aykroyd to fall so low?","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw the movie `Crossroads'only because I'm a fan of Dan Aykroyd, and generally I follow him on each of his work. But for this character I don't know the sense.Aykroyd is a good actor, with a certain professionality , but in this movie everything is goofy and is professionality is spoiling, for say not ridiculed. The story of the movie is the more stereotyped of the century  3 girlfriends do a trip where they discovered the sense of the life and the real friendship. All of this deeply plunge on the rhetoric and sugared. Britney Spears is simply ridiculous she not play, but  she smile for all the time of the movie. I hope that Aykroyd not continue for other movie on this line.      "},{"Title":"IT SUCKS!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie just sucked!  The plot had potential, but the writing of the movie was awful!  Lines of this movie were cheesy and stupid, not to mention the overdramatic acting.  On the other hand, this is a fun movie to watch...if you want something to make fun of. "},{"Title":"Like so many singers, Spears blows like no other.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Like so many have tried to accomplish before her, Spears wanted to completely dominate the media landscape.  This just doesn't occur.  She tries, but fails miserably in her attempts to create a good chick flick.  The only reason to see this movie is if you need to catch up on your Z's.  GoOdByE. "},{"Title":"Worse than you could imagine","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  On a whim, I thought Britney is in her underwear in this movie, how bad could it be?. So I made the mistake of renting this. Save for the couple scenes where Britney is scantily clad, this is a painful movie to sit through. It's unbeleivably stupid, corny, predictable, badly acted, etc. etc. It makes those breast cancer, wife beater Lifetime movies look good. Beyond just being a bad movie, what messages does it send to it's obviously teenage girl focus group. That you should have sex by 18. Yes, very important with sexual diseases running rampant. Also, they should run away to Los Angeles where there dreams will come true. Although if they actually do that, they won't end up like Britney's character, they'll end up like the girl in Night At The Golden Eagle.  "},{"Title":"So horrid you can use it as a form of torture","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  We were going to rent Crossroads(198*) starring that Karate Kid person, but a dumb friend did not make sure that it was the 198* Crossroads, and thus, we got stuck with Britney. If you plan to rent this, please...spare your VCR this torture.In this *movie* B.S. (her name says it all) proves that she can't sing or act. She also shamelessly promotes herself throughout this bad flick, while partaking in events that every modern teen ostensibly faces on a daily basis (like becoming a mom and losing your FETUS).*SORTA SPOILER***************** Who in their right minds would sayHow is the FETUS? instead ofHow is the Baby? anyways???!!!I would rather lick public urinals than see this movie again. "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever!","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Dude I wouldn't watch this movie again if somebody paid me!  Okay I watched this movie at my friend's sleepover, and I can't believe that some of them actually liked it!  It was so horrible and the plot was so unoriginal.  Britney Spears cannot act at all!  Look I like some of her music but I think she should just stick with dancing and singing.  Maybe she is a good actress but the script just stink.  I don't know.  I just know that I couldn't stand this movie and my friend kept on saying that it was going to get better.  Didn't get better at all.  I can no longer stand any songs associated with this movie especially Unprotected and that other one, the title escapes me.  The only part I liked was Kim Cattrall's part and I know the part where she like totally disses Britney's character and Britney like looks all sad is suppose to be dramatic, but I couldn't help but laugh at Britney's hurt expression.  Anyway hated this movie with a passion, heck A Walk to Remember was so much better.  Mandy Moore can at least do drama!  Just my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"britney self-assigns herself the role of victim, hero, and budding superstar.","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  a whitewashed over piece of narcissism from britney spears. the glossy surface couldn't hide the pathetic self-promotion, as well as the lack of plot, lack of character development, and vague, unrealistic flash-bulb fragmentation of an ending. my opinions on this movie would be expressed best by asking a few rhetorical questionsisn't the beauty of acting sacrificing your own image in order to give birth to another ... how can britney introduce a recycled song (and some of the most callow poetry i've ever cringed at) into the plot as fresh material and expect us to be moved?does the director assume we'll build instant compassion for britney by swallowing her character with unrealistic troubles and predicaments? seriously ... this is the lamest attempt at trying to force the audience to love a character i've ever seen. britney plays the innocent victim in the scene with her mom, the kind straight-A girl who loves all the rejects and nerds in high, the incredible talent who has never sung on stage, but suddenly and spontaneously breaks out into a studio-version sounding version of i love rock n' roll, and ultimately the insecure girl who is the helpless victim/budding superstar all in the same breathcan we honestly believe such a high school geek would wear such revealing clothes, and can we honestly believe such a shy, insecure girl would do a striptease before losing her precious virginity?are all the coincidences/plot angles in this movie just unrealistic, contrived devices to thicken (if that's the right word) and idiot plot that insults the intelligence of anyone with half a brain?why would such a popular stud want to date-rape the unattractive, tom-boyish Mimi? come on.where did that guy get the time to write such contrived sheet music ... where did the other two girls find the time to practice Britney's song before singing back-up vocals in the end sequence., and finally, from the beginning ... who could believe after all those years of seperation the girls would just pack up there bags one day and become best friends again?if anyone who watched this movie didn't predict that the three long lost friends would become a close-knit sisterhood by the end of the movie than you've apparently rotted away half of your brain listening to pop music. "},{"Title":"Oh my God...","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Oh my God.... someone please stop Britney before she even thinks about doing another movie. This was terrible!!! No, wait, terrible isn't enough to even cover it. I started watching have some hopes that it would be decent, but after I saw Britney prancing around in her underwear, it turned into I came, I saw, I mocked, and it deserved it. Okay. Well, let's see. Where do I begin? Oh right.. BRITNEY CAN'T ACT IF HER LIFE DEPENDED ON IT!!! My god I could do better and I'm talentless. And that plot was so ridiculously working for Britney!!! Number one, she sings at every freakin' moment she can (and she really can't sing) and number 2, why was her life so easy? The other two just plain get screwed over. Britney has a loving dad, she's smart people want to date her, and she gets a singing deal. I don't remember their character names but Zoe Saldana, bitchy, fiancee cheats on her, and then she's Britney's back-up singer???? Same thing with Taryn, she gets pregnant and the father couldn't care less, she's been raped, she's like from a trailer, and the moment she realizes she wants the baby, she loses it. What a terrible movie, I'm gonna have to go into the negatives to rate this one. -4/10 "},{"Title":"Inexcusably Inexcusable","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is terrible! You can tell it was written for Britney alone. This 'film' basically covers a road trip, discovering yourself, and other bull. It is overflowing with cliches, LITERALLY!!! And in this film, Britney's mum tells her she was a 'mistake'. This whole film was a mistake. The acting was terrible, the script was so wrong and cliched i had to vomit in my popcorn box. the best bit was the end, because it was over.To sum it all up DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE "},{"Title":"this movie was terrible","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Wow when i saw this movie i was only interested in how britney looked. However the movie sounded like it was wrote by teenage girls and resulted into a very long promotion for Britney's new album. If you heard good things about the movie you were mislead. Britney did do a alright job of acting. Sadly this movie is calling out i'm not britney spears but i'm just like her in every way. Could of been alot better. "},{"Title":"It was almost as bad as I thought it would be","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I finally got around to seeing my brother's copy of Crossroads. I wanted to see if it was as bad as all the reviews indicated. And to see those underwear scenes. (Why do you think so many teenagers saw the movie anyways?) Well, sure enough there were those 2 scenes in the first 10 minutes of the film. It seemed to be rushed early on. Then it got kind of slow in the middle. I couldn't believe Dan Aykroyd was in this film; and in such an un-funny role!! $$$SPOILERS$$$ That fight scene with the pregnant chick and the conceeded chick was odd. Even more odd was the karaoke/bar scene. I thought the pregnant girl wanted to be a singer. She totally wimped out. What a SURPRISE that Britney took over. She should have tried harder to sing like her character than... well... Britney! The only good (realistic) scene was when they were at the hotel and eating cakes and junk while talking about worsed experiences. Just like a slumber party. Then it went down hill. Britney met her mom and didn't get what she expected. The conceeded girl didn't get what she expected in what had to have been a somewhat predictable and corny scene. The only time I actually felt SOMETHING for the characters was when Mimi (pregnant chick) was in the hospital. I ACTUALLY felt bad! Then it got bad again. The scene where Britney's dad tries to take her home was corny and ridiculous. Oh and don't even ask about the lossing-virginity scene so many have talked about. Somewhere there's a nerd (beginning of film) that should have persisted more. Poor guy. And why did she pick the second guy you ask? Who knows?! WHO CARES??!! This movie was made to promote Britney Spears. The ending was aweful. Once again the pregnant chick wimps out! And guess who takes over. The ended sort of implied the movie was about Britney ONLY. The other 2 girls were mere pawns/deekoys/enomolies/ things that took up space while the chick with the torso sings crappier songs  "},{"Title":"It was almost as bad as I thought it would be","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"    **SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I finally got around to seeing my brother's copy of Crossroads. I wantedto see if it was as bad as all the reviews indicated. And to see thoseunderwear scenes. (Why do you think so many teenagers saw the movieanyways?) Well, sure enough there were those 2 scenes in the first 10minutes of the film. It seemed to be rushed early on. Then it got kindof slow in the middle. I couldn't believe Dan Aykroyd was in this film;and in such an un-funny role!! $$$SPOILERS$$$ That fight scene with thepregnant chick and the conceeded chick was odd. Even more odd was thekaraoke/bar scene. I thought the pregnant girl wanted to be a singer.She totally wimped out. What a SURPRISE that Britney took over. Sheshould have tried harder to sing like her character than... well...Britney! The only good (realistic) scene was when they were at the hoteland eating cakes and junk while talking about worsed experiences. Justlike a slumber party. Then it went down hill. Britney met her mom anddidn't get what she expected. The conceeded girl didn't get what sheexpected in what had to have been a somewhat predictable and cornyscene. The only time I actually felt SOMETHING for the characters waswhen Mimi (pregnant chick) was in the hospital. I ACTUALLY felt bad!Then it got bad again. The scene where Britney's dad tries to take herhome was corny and ridiculous. Oh and don't even ask about thelossing-virginity scene so many have talked about. Somewhere there's anerd (beginning of film) that should have persisted more. Poor guy. Andwhy did she pick the second guy you ask? Who knows?! WHO CARES??!! Thismovie was made to promote Britney Spears. The ending was aweful. Onceagain the pregnant chick wimps out! And guess who takes over. The endedsort of implied the movie was about Britney ONLY. The other 2 girls weremere pawns/deekoys/enomolies/ things that took up space while the chickwith the torso sings crappier songs  "},{"Title":"Thankfully, she's not my idol of worship.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Oh what can we say that the public already hasn't?I'm just glad my world won't fall apart when the expectations aren't as high as I hoped.I didn't expect much...and this offered a little bit less than what I imagined.The barscene where they win the money for singing was pitiful...which bar on earth would offer that much money in the first place for a group of unknown singers with no contract to the manager for ONE song? That bit was so sadly written, as was the rest of the 3rd and 4th act.Britney's performance wasn't too bad...just the logic behind the motivation. If it weren't for her name on the screen...this movie would be a straight to video with only 2 copies on the shelf.Dan Akroyd is possibly the last person to be portraying a father to Ms. Spears...they look nothing at all like each other. Not a single bit!I crossed the country to go to Hollywood and trust me, there's a lot more tension when cars break down, things go bad, friends fight...that was in my comparison to an ice cream cone melting in the sun; you don't like that it happens, but you don't get overly upset either. You just accept the fact that icecream melts and in this case, that the car breaks down, you have little cash and your freind is an ex-jailer.No suspense...no tension, no anger. Nothing; just a puddle of ice cream on the ground infront of you.For Britney to accept the fact that her mom walked away without being p***ed off...yeah-right!She must have had lots of influence on this movie to be made, because any worthwile director and producer would have chiseled the scenes down finer to a point of believabilty for even teens of this age.Remember..we were teens to...make it seem real-or realer.Her and her crew sing a single song in a club, don't get hassled by old drooling men, win a truckload of money and then get a huge applause like the worlds best performance had taken place!!! Ok!!!Britney...take your hands out of the film business and keep them on your Nintendo and make-up purse. "},{"Title":"really really really really bad","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  ok, i dont like britney, i dont like those corny movies for teenagers but i watched it anyway. of course i didnt expect much. in fact i expected it to be awful. its even worse. first of all, with all that money britney could get some acting lessons (and a voice coach as long as we are on the subject). and i know writers dont make much money, but i think it should be enough to be able to afford a brain. if u wanna watch it, be my guest, but those will be 93 minutes  of your life you wont ever get back.  "},{"Title":"LAME LAME LAME LAME LAME LAME","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  How fake can anything be, i swear, i had more fun watching peter pan then this movie, britney spears cant act worth anything and this movie may have made money at the box office, but i bet you anything everyone that saw that movie and liked it was under 8 and already having dreams about being a plastic hoe like britney really is "}{"Title":"Don't waste your money","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads was not worth the $8.75 that I paid to see it. It was a stupid movie with a nonexistant plot. The best part of the movie was the hilarious commentary of the guy sitting behind me. If you have  $10 and you're debating whether or not to see 'Crossroads' or burn the money, burn the money... "},{"Title":"the book is way better","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Before I saw the actual movie, I read the book based on the movie. It was totally awesome, and I was disappointed when I watched the movie later on only to find that whoever wrote the book thought so too. The book had the same storyline, but it was well developed and gave each of the characters good personalities Lucy was shy and smart, Mimi was punk and only did what she wanted to do, and Kit was a popular snob. The book didn't have any useless sex scenes or random lines. Yeah, if you already saw the movie, you might not feel interested in reading the book, but just give it a shot if you feel like giving it another try. I'm not sure who the exact author is, and it might be only sold through scholastic, but if you ever get the chance to read it, you should. "},{"Title":"Putrid pile of crap","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This Movie was foul. The only redeeming feature to this film was in the first fifteen minutes of the movie you get to see Britney half naked. This film lacked any passion. I felt not even on iota of empathy with any of the characters. Please erase the last hour and a half from my memory. Avoid this movie at all cost. As far as rock star movie vehicles, there are many out there that far surpass this one. Cool as Ice starring Vanilla Ice was of much better quality and thats saying a lot as far as how bad this film was. I feel really bad for Dan ackroyd in this film. Most of the time that poor man looks like he's confused and scared. Wondering how the hell he ended up making this movie. Kim Cattrall made only a brief cameo and she looked like she was thinking, yeah hurry up and lets film this scene, please god, please let my scene not make the final cut of this film. Wheres my paycheck so i can go back to sex and the city. I am filled with rage... "},{"Title":"Cliché and Ultimately Pointless. (Spoilers)","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Crossroads is the story of three friends, Lucy, Kit, and Mimi, who as children put symbols of their dreams for the future in a time capsule and buried it, promising to dig it up on the night of their high school graduation. Flash forward to Graduation Day and the three girls have gone their separate ways Lucy is a nerd and (horror of horrors!) a virgin, Kit is a beauty-obsessed snob, and Mimi is poor white trash and five months pregnant. Circumstances nevertheless throw the three back together and they unearth the time capsule, only to realize that their lives have not lived up to their dreams. On impulse they decide to embark on a road trip to California, with the hunky-yet-sensitive musician Ben along for the ride.Two words could describe this movie unoriginal and lame. For example, Lucy's father is pressuring her into medical school when her real love is singing, but of course his outlook is completely changed after he sees her spectacular performance at the movie's climax. One gets the feeling that if these two morons just sat down and held a *conversation* with one another the whole conflict would have been avoided. The humor isn't funny, and there's nothing cute or entertaining about the girls dancing and singing along to Madonna or Shania Twain every other scene. Of course this review has to mention Crossroads' star, Britney Spears. Spears' lackluster acting chops, combined with the bad script, makes for one very unimpressive heroine. Britney's Lucy is (naturally) Valedictorian, but she doesn't have the intelligence to stop the road trip once she hears that the man driving her and her friends may be a convicted murderer. She's mocked for being pure and virginal, but she can still pole dance with the best of them. Lucy's braininess is also such a turn off that the only guy at school who'd want her is her socially-inept lab partner. Are you buying this? Didn't think so. Despite the title being Crossroads, there actually aren't any in the movie. Lucy meets her deadbeat mother and loses her virginity to a guy she barely knows, Kit learns that her boyfriend is a cheat and a rapist, and Mimi suffers a miscarriage. Things have happened, yet no lessons have been learned, and no apparent changes have been made. That is why the movie ultimately fails. In the final scene the girls are all exactly the same, dancing and giggling as if life is one big, never-ending slumber party. "},{"Title":"Oh god...","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie, if possible, made me feel even worse for having a Britney Spears song on my iPod. Taryn Manning actually did OK but poor Britney... I don't think this movie could've gone any worse. Zoe Saldana really worked the stereotype as the hot, popular chick. But totally ruined the story when her boyfriend turns out to be the player who impregnated Taryn Manning's character. I definitely would give this movie a 1 out of 10 due to its horrible trash level and overall bad story. By the way Taryn, I think you would be a great actress if you didn't play trailer trash. All of your movies end up with you coming from the street. Anyway, horrible movie, but go get it out of the 49 cent bin just to have a good laugh. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" OK i was at my friends House it was a sleep over and i fell asleep during it OK for 40 minutes i fell asleep because it sucked not because i was tired \ i would not recommend this to any 1 OK because first i knew what was going to happen 2nd because i really hated it it was et at all good if you like Brittany spears than i would not see it because it would rec your dreams of being like her because she suckes and we all no when we were Lil we liked s club 7 and spice girls but really every one loved Brittany spears until they heared her at a concert i never went to her concert i wouldn't pay 10 cents but ya the move totally sucked like mega i wouldn't see it again in my entire life how ever that may last "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I cannot understand why anyone can like this terrible movie. The acting is bad, especially Britney Spears and I wondered why a story could be so ... boring. When I watched the movie I only sat on my chair and waited for an interesting turning of the story but it never came. Crossroads was waste of time. The music is so horrible, I HATE Britney Spears and her terrible voice. Well, dont watch this movie. MissFantasy "},{"Title":"Simply awful","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  There's not much more to say about this movie other than it proves that some people should stick to singing and avoid acting (or trying to act) at ALL costs! Britney was terrible. Okay, maybe it wasn't all her fault. The movie itself was probably a bad idea for anyone to act in. There was no real feelings in it and I felt all the time like I was watching a high school production. The filming itself was okay, but everything else stunk. "},{"Title":"Kept me in Stitches the Entire Time","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie kept me in stitches for the entire time.  It was absolutely hilarious.  Despite getting lots of foul looks and shhh's from devout Britney fans, my friends and I were unable to contain ourselves.  This film was truly entertaining because it was just so comical.Britney's acting stood out by a mile......... you can probably guess why. As for the storyline, it was hilarious.  Britney Spears smart??  A doctor??? A nerd???  Willing to lose her virginity to a geek????  It was so absurdly funny.Like an above poster said, the film was basically an extended video clip. They never stopped singing, much to the delight of many twelve year olds in the audience.Basically, the film was what I expected- a shallow storyline centered around Britney Spears, who was often singing and semi naked.I would recommend this film to 12 year old girls, dirty old men, and people who like to laugh at pathetic films. "},{"Title":"What I don't get...","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  is why Britney Spears is the nerd and the other girl, Kit, is the hot one.  I mean, right there the film loses all credability.  And that guy Lucy hooks up with looks like he's 30 and she just graduated high school. Couldn't they find some hot guy to play the love interest.  And a lot of this movie is just to promote Spears singing. I mean, she sings some of the songs she has recorded on CDs.  And she is supposed to be the nerd, but always ends up wearing the most trashy and skimpy outfits of the 3 girls.  Not to mention, she has to be the only one that gets down into her underwear on screen.  Also, I don't like some high school pregnant girl being included in a supposed teen flick, not to mention the subject of rape is included.  And a 17 year old hooks up with some guy who drives her to California. What message is that supposed to teach? I just thought that was unnecessary since the target audience is 12 year old girls.Also, why make Lucy's mom a total b*tch.  The mom has only a few lines. Why not show more of that meeting between her and Lucy.  I also have to comment on the horrible dialouge in this. Spears is awful at reading her lines and sheds crocodile tears.  The scenes with her dad were making me roll my eyes it sounded so forced.And the ending is basically a fairytale.  So unrealistic.FINAL VERDICT  Pass on this flick.  The story just isn't any good. "}{"Title":"Wish I could give it a 0(the worst movie ever)","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I did not expect anything from this movie. Not at all. I expected it to be about two hours of chick movie. I was heavily disappointed. It was even worse. Not only did it have an annoying chick feel throughout the movie, it was so predictable. I sat through it, constantly being able to figure out what happens next. And the ending was probably the worst I've ever seen. Don't watch it if you're a guy, even if you're being pressured by girls and/or Britney fans. The only reason I can think of to see this movie, is that there are two scenes in which Britney is in her underwear. "},{"Title":"Dan Aykroyd's Crossroad Into Superstardom","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  During the course of this movie Dan Aykroyd plays the most uncool character he has ever played... Britney Spears' father!  He is double-plus uncool and there is absolutely nothing good about this movie at all! Unofficial score of 0.01/10! "},{"Title":"Not that bad, not that good","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a film that can be summed up as okay. In fact, instead of Crossroads it shoulda been called Middle Of The Road, because thats what it was a mediocre time waster. I saw it on cable and thats probably why Im gicing it a decent review I didnt lose $5 at the vid store or,worse,$10 at a theatre. Im way Past the age of being a Britney fan, but I AM one of those people that if I hear a movies rabidly bad I WILL watch it on cable just to see how ghastly it is. This movie is by no means ghastly. I had fault with it, but I didnt feel TOTALLY DISGUSTED. The first scene is Britney singing in her undies. I rtolled my eyes and thought Oh great, HERE comes a real Shakesperian performance! if Brit REALLy wanted to come off as a young Meryl Streep maybe she shoulda just said No to a bra and panty singing scene/ a towel scene/ a beach scene etc. well, anyway, 5 minutes in we meet Brits father,Dan Ackroyd why does she,the daughter have a Southern drawl and he,the father doesnt??? In fact, if this is supposed to take place in the South why does the rest of the cast NOT have a drawl??? Well anyway, as you probably know Britney and her two childhood friends go on a roadtrip with a male driver with a mystery background(he went to prison, but for what?)Britney wants to go to AZ to look for her long lost Mom, her pregnant tomboy friend wants to go to CA to become a singer and her engaged friend wants to surprise her fiancee. You really dont need a crystal ball to see how these situations will play out. You may find yourself wondering Wait...the FRIEND wants to be a singer...why didnt they cast Britney in the singing role???...and then resolve that storyline in your head. Well, anyway, there are two musical numbers here and I must say they are NOT two of Britneys best songs. I dont think I'll forgive her anytime soon for killing I LOVE ROCK & ROLL, and I never thought NOT A GIRL NOT YET A WOMAN ever came off as the big hit she and the producers (of album and film) THOUGHT it would. Sadly,these are the tunes they used. If you are a diehard Britney fan you probably will like this movie more than those who arent fans. Would I sit through it again? No. Did I wanna throw up after seeing it? No.  "},{"Title":"Teenager film with bad quality acting from BRITNEY SPEARS","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Oh my God! What was they're thinking when choose Britney for this film, she can't acting she just can sing.The story is enough good. I like it because it is about teenager story, but Britney act in this film make it bad and worst. And she acting like she is a virgin. Oh God! we all know that Britney is not virgin, beside she already live together with Justin. Not that I don't like Britney, I like her song but Britney change more discuss than her video clip. Beside her acting is 0, she REALLY REALLY BAD ACTRESS.The good part in this film it just Brithey songs, I am not a girl not yet a woman & Over protected.    "},{"Title":"I think I'm going to puke","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was horrible!!! Horrible acting and Britney Spears, you suck!! Your acting suck and this stupid story of yours suck! Before it came out, people had a lot of potentials for this movie, but it suck!!   It seems these days that Hollywood would make possibly any movies! Movies are not about a pretty face and sex! It's more than that! I heard on MTV Britney Spears was trying to defend herself by making up some lies. She said, Whatever the critics like, I dont like. I'm scared if the critics likes my movie or not. I bet that was not how she feels about the critics when her movie didn't come out.  A trip, out of thin air, can change the lives of these girls, maybe that's possible, but this movie didn't show it. It was horrible. Especially Britney Spears. She shouldn't act at all. She's horrible at it even horrible then Mandy Moore and you know how annoying it is when Many Moore talks. She tried to look all innocent and whatever. Don't pretend, Britney and Mandy...all your giving the consumers is another reason to hate you.    I just got so aggravating when I see this stars acting totally different when the camaras is on. Enough of that, this movie sucks! It makes Star Wars look better, in script I mean. It seems so easy for any brainless people to make it big these days. What happen to those people with great ideas? What has the world become these days!   What a waste of money this movie is! I'm so upset w/ myself for seeing it! "},{"Title":"I don't know how bad Glitter was, but........","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  this would have to be DAMN near as bad, because I heard Glitter was terrible and so was this. In one word - PATHETIC. I mean, it's Britney Spears, what more needs to be said? I was dragged along and I didn't really want to see it. I shouldn't have gone. I definitely agree with the previous comment from the person who said it was a pile of vomit and my recommendation to everyone is  - save yourselves the TORTURE!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"hated it!!!!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Oh my god!!! After this stupid, dumb movie I seriously had to throw up! it's sooo much worse than i could ever imagine. This is for teenagers who don't have brains, just like that fake britney spears. The only reason for going to that movie was because my 10-year old sister insisted on it. but even she hated it. And the jokes are bad, by the way. It's SO overrated, a 2.5 is way to much for this. i give this a 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Madonna next to Britney Spears is Cher!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The only reason why I'm spending my time commenting this movie is to warn everybody and to just tell you this message AVOID IT! Crossroads is just a long commercial promoting Pepsi, and one big, long, boring, childish, stupid Spears video clip. It's not worth a single penny. Madonna next to Britney Spears is Cher! Crossroads makes Who's That Girl (Madonna) look good! > "},{"Title":"Academy Award material . . .","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Yeah, the Laughing Academy. Painfully, embarrassingly bad movie that lived down to everyone's expectations. Once in a while a nonprofessional actor (athlete, singer, model, etc.) will surprise you and actually turn in a good performance in a decent movie; Mandy Moore comes to mind. More often than not, though, their lack of training and/or talent is glaringly obvious, and there's no more perfect example of that than this stinker. Britney's stage presence consists mainly of her running around in various stages of semi-nudity (not that there's anything wrong with that), stroking herself, jumping up and down, shaking her butt and thrusting her boobs (if they actually ARE hers--you know the rumors as well as I do) towards the audience. While that may get 12-year-old boys and 75-year-old erectionally-challenged former U.S. Vice Presidents up and running, it doesn't work on a movie screen. Take away the shaking, moaning, groaning and fondling in her act, and she has virtually no stage presence; in this film she has even less than that. She may be trying to become the next Madonna, but someone should have told her about Madonna's movie career; there's a lesson to be learned there, but I don't think Britney will learn it. She has been quoted as saying that she intends to pursue a full-time acting career. Well, she can pursue it all she wants, but she won't catch it. Giggling, jumping up and down on a bed in your underwear (not that there's anything wrong with that) and flashing that annoyingly goofy grin of hers doesn't pass for acting, although she and her trainers . . . er, managers are apparently under the impression that it does, as they have her do it repeatedly. I don't know what the box-office grosses on this film were, but I would imagine--I would hope, actually--that they weren't very impressive. Hopefully, that will discourage the likes of Britney, Mariah Carey, etc., from thinking that a successful singing career can automatically translate into a successful film career. A singer can get by without knowing how to sing particularly well, as in Britney's case (Carey, for her almost complete lack of acting talent, has an incredible voice and is a far, far better singer than Britney will ever be), but a lack of acting talent isn't conducive to a movie career, Tom Cruise's success notwithstanding.If Hollywood would stop wasting time and money on crap like this, and on no-talent wanna-be movie stars, maybe some singers, actors, directors, writers, etc., with actual talent and something to say could get some good movies made, and we would be seeing more of them and less of the likes of Britney Spears.Nah. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Yes, it's true. My one line summary of The worst movie ever made may come across as harsh, but it's still the best quote the movie producers could find to market their product. Ho ho ho. Believe it or not, the critics were a lot harsher than me. I would just like to say what a load of cack this movie was, and to think Britney Spears wants to persue an acting career...I sure hope not! She's a pathetic actress. Britney, her fellow actors and actresses and the producers ought to be shot for this dire movie. It lacks narrative drive and plot and I've had more fun at my Granny's house on a Sunday afternoon than I have watching this...and believe me, my Granny's company is VERY dull. Take my advice, DO NOT watch this movie. Britney and the producers describe this movie as a new standard for the 21st Century. They're right. I just didn't think the standards could ever get this low. "}{"Title":"britney is taking over the world.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  and that is NOT good. i saw this film without hearing any reviews from other people, just so i can make my own comment on it. and Crossroads is a ridiculous movie.Britney Spears is an obvious reason why this movie (frankly) SUCKS. first of all, she does not look like a sweet, angelic valedictorian. but don't get me wrong, the casting is pretty ok, except for one person. and another downfall of this movie is the script, too twisted, unrealistic and an obvious advertiser for Britney Spears. all she did was shake her hips and warble like a parrot.the other actors have talent lurking somewhere, but Ms. Spears obviously don't. the movie lacks plot, substance, and a really good actress for the lead role. all in all, this film would be better if the script was revised to something more uh, meaningful, change the title (crossroads is a good title for a bad movie), take out all the advertising schemes, throw out the trashy and untalented so-called actress/singer and replace her with an actress that has real TALENT... hmm. pretty much change everything.this whole comment is a rant on Britney. before making another pathetic movie, she should 1. get singing lessons, 2. learn how to act without looking so PLASTIC and 3. take a role that fits her description. it's a good thing i only rented a really bad vcd copy. the movie is not worth it to be seeing on the cinemas and paying for it.i'm still wondering why Britney Spears still exist in this world.rating 1.5/10 (an extra point five for effort) "},{"Title":"Worst movie of the year (or any year)","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was obviously written with one purpose in mind. To showcase Britney Spears (and her physical attributes). None of the costume choices made any sense except in that light however. There were really only two other problems with the movie, the plot and the acting. The plot was worse than the most banal made for TV movie. Three girls with nothing in common embark on a spur of the moment trip across country with a stranger. Spears may be able to sing and dance to a degree but she has no talent whatsoever in the area of acting. Dan Aykroyd, who can act, mailed in this performance. I don't blame him. Not only is it a horrible plot with bad acting the messages are wrong as well. You get to see pre-marital sex without consequence and teenage drinking. Bad Bad Bad. The worst movie I have ever seen.. not even bad in a campy way.. just plain BAD!!! Do yourself a favor, rent Attack of the Killer Tomatoes or something but don't bother seeing this one and don't let your kids see it either. Oh and one last thing. Did I mention it was a HORRIBLE movie? "},{"Title":"Crash course in Britney semiotics","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  1. When not seen in digitally candied music-video light, bodyappears to have augmented-breast and liposucted-abdomenindices. Could be angry-lustful-old-man projection onto theStar-Body.2. When a 20-year-old Super-Star with the emotional developmentof a 12-year-old decides not to make a flossy, sugary Hollywoodteen movie and instead decides to make a Gritty Indie Thing, thisis what you get.3. The one moment of genuineness--as opposed to  unaffectedness, naturalness and relaxation, which are all there inabundance--in the Super-Star Performance comes when her hardexterior cracks and she bursts into tears. Bursts too quickly, tooindice of Emotional Needs Long Pent-Up by Driving Type-APersonality.4. The woman who plays the aging, blowsy, semi-jowly  nymphomaniac on Sex and the City plays the Super-Star's mother.One must think that this is a cruel joke on the star.5. Taryn Manning, lyrical Super-Genius Real Actor in the Lili Taylorand Juliette Lewis modes, steals scenes, and in the end (nodoubt with the permission of Paramount Pictures, MTV Films, andprobably the Super-Star Herself) usurps the entire movie. And yet,time and time again, the Gritty Indie Girl's character is made todefer, to literally get up and move into the back seat, so that theSuper-Star's character can, literally, assume the limelight. Onemust consider this to be an expression of the Super-Star's Guiltand Subsequent Anger in Re the Marginalization of Real Musicby Prepackaged Pop Schlock such as the product her handlersmake using her as a marketing tool.6. The Super-Star's character's Growth-Arc is defined by theprogress of a poem-turned-song called Not a Girl, Not Yet aWoman. The Growth-Arc of poem-turned-song is calibrated ascarefully and rigorously as that of Sympathy for the Devil in theJean-Luc Godard film of the same name. One comes away fromthe final version of the poem feeling that its genesis was theSuper-Star's frustration in describing her target demographic in ameeting with the abovementioned marketing advisers.7. Pains have been taken to move the Super-Star's presentationaway from the X-treme Diva terrain of Glitter and Mahogany. It is notaltogether clear whether this is an aesthetically or commerciallyastute judgment.8. One comes away from the picture with the Schadenfreude-filledrealization that one has spent its entire running time wonderingabout slash fantasizing when the Super-Star will reach herexpiration date and descend into Whitney Mariah Valleys ofMadness. "},{"Title":"Not even Eye Candy, more like eye-smack","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When a critic describes a movie, or anything for that matter, as being eye-candy it refers to how it looks good and tastes good but isn't good for you.  I can't even use that description for Crossroads, Britney Spears first movie (and shockingly directed by the same person who once made the excellent Billy Madison and Half Baked with no sarcasm intended), which is like eye-smack since once your eyes look at the screen, you get hooked and realize when your not seeing Spears on the screen it's destroying your internal organs. In other words, Crosswords is a movie that didn't make me want to chuck my soda and snacks at the screen but only because it would smudge up some of the quick cleavage shots of Spears.  Deep down, it's a horrible motion picture, the script fashioned over a weekend by somebody hired by Paramount and MTV films to churn out a script that would seem cute and witty and appeal to Britney herself most likely.  All the plot elements stink- the cross country trip to the west coast with three girls and a guy tale with so many cliches even the lowest IQ'd girls in the audience would roll their eyes at, finding mom, pregnant girl, date rape, guy with guitar and ends up, uh, uh, at that point I left the theater!Bottom line, everybody should be warned before stepping into the room to view this picture, and while I would reccomend it to the usual perverts who rent PG-13 movies and use pausing the quick moments of sensuality on DVD to do you know what with what, even the seven year old girls who want to be just like Britney would want to stick to her records instead of seeing her trying to act, which she can do as well as Juanita the cafeteria lady with the one lip and gimpy leg at my school can accomplish.Grade D- (and the reasons for it not being a complete failure, there are no reasons, after all who needs reasons when you got eye-Heroin?) "},{"Title":"Horrible...","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I was unfortunately exposed to this horrible piece of filmmaking not by choice, but because I was playing the good guy spending xmas day with the family of some friends. Their daughter is a huge Brittney fan and this movie was on the flat screen with the DVD set to&#x85; gulp&#x85; loop mode. Each time I was exposed to it when transiting through the living room I immediately ran to the bathroom, all the while reaching for my personal bottle of Bactine so I could liberally rinse out my eyes. Needless to say I used the whole bottle long before the film was over on the first play through. Unfortunately there weren't any drug stores open on xmas day where I could quickly replenish my supply so I had to politely endure the best I could. A whopping case of snow blindness would have felt far more soothing. I pity the silver halide crystals that were forced to be part of this acetate monstrosity. The atomic cry emanating from the camera shutter gate would have made the folks at CERN green with envy for the profuse expulsion of sub-atomic particles created by the silver halide nuclear genocide of would have made the multi-billion dollar collider a moot point.However, as bad as this is there are a couple of redeeming qualities that will catapult this film into the status of a timeless and endearing classic. 1. The CIA and other letter agencies can use it as a torture mechanism. This film coupled with copious insertions of the singing Tro-Lo-Lo guy will make water boarding seem like a folk dance. You want the information? 30 minutes of this puerile tripe and any hardened spy, criminal, or terrorist will spill their guts pronto. Hell they'll probably make some up too just to end the onslaught before irrevocable damage is done. 2. UCLA film school can use it as a frame-by-frame forensic study of how not to make a movie. This requisite first-year, first-semester post- mortem will take the most resolute future filmmaker or writer and have them run screaming from the campus giving up the Hollywood dream only to become a used car or insurance sales person. Nothing like weeding out the weak stomach wannabe's. "},{"Title":"Jen Leone for the Dark One","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Hello. My name is Agent DX, MI-6. Let me tell you about Britney Spears' first film, a god awful movie that should be fit for a Dark One.Crossroads is about three high school friends-one is little miss perfect, one is an engaged prom queen, and the other is a pregnant outcast that even Zaxxon could not save. They bury a time capsule and swear to open it on the night of their high school graduation. Like the box, this film should self-destruct immediately. Fire in the hole! Dan Aykroyd appears in this movie as the dad, but as Emperor Lumino said, he fared better in the Ghostbusters movies. I saw a clip of it on my 2004 camping trip, surrounded by Australian counselors. Its Mimi, you're pregnant. What, are you just gonna be some big fat pregnant superstar? just can't match Scarface's Say hello to my little friend! The latter is what a werewolf said to the friends before he killed them. Jen Leone, my mom's friend, had Legally Blonde, 13 Going on 30, and Miss Congeniality, but not this. She was told not to buy it. She listened, and so should you. "},{"Title":"a work of towering genius","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is a work of pure genius - it's a masterpiece! This movie is a testament to the staggering power of the human intellect. I don't care what the credits might say, it is obvious to me that this staggeringly gifted, towering work of art was written and directed by none other than Christopher Guest, Michael McKean and Rob Reiner - no other team - NO OTHER TEAM - could possibly generate such an astonishingly funny and yet shockingly accurate satire of Hollywood's quick let's exploit a photogenic no-talent bimbo before the public wakes up and realises she has absolutely no talent whatsoever genre. 1/10 and that (trust me) is being very, very generous. If you're ever trapped on a plane and you're faced with the choice of watching this film or eating the contents of a fellow traveller's sick-bag - Chow down, buddy. Chow down "},{"Title":"Unlike most reviewers, I can't  rest my case on this.","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This is the worst film I have ever seen in my entire, beautiful life. Not only does it show that its bad, but the performances are so drivel and atrocious that I just sat there in disbelief. For those who saw this film back in '02, I ask them a very simple question Why? I think Britney Spears should just stick to music videos. That's where her real talent comes alive.This film will only appeal to hard-core horny males of brainless female pop stars trying to expand their popularity. Well Ms. Spears certainly excels in that department but if she ever appears in movies like this or any film, then Ms. Spears may run the risk of overstaying her welcome. "},{"Title":"Favourite nostalgia movie.","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I absolutely HATE how I see so many negative reviews on here and elsewhere. I remember when I was 4, Britney Spears was the hottest artist on the planet. When she released Crossroads, it was super popular. But slummed after bad reviews.My older sister and I, had God knows how much Britney merchandise. We absolutely loved this movie. We used to watch it with our neighbor all the time. I love this movie, in my opinion. It's a great chick flick for the early 2000s and ultimately is a musical.Although Britney went loopy years later, in my eyes, she ACED that movie. "},{"Title":"Clichéroads","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Had I had any points with people in my inner movie-loving circle, I'd lose the rest of their respect when I say I didn't hate Crossroads.Sure, it was a chore to get through, had its ups/downs, clichés galore and enough melodrama to make the Lifetime channel sue for copyright infringement. But, it's a harmless movie with not-horrible acting stints from our main leads in the road-trip comedy. Oh, sorry, I mean drama. No? Okay, Suspense. Or is it Coming of Age?Whatever genre it is, or pretends it is, it's a nice reminder of the timeframe it was shot. Meaning, I loved the songs of the late 90s into the early 2000s and this has plenty of them. So, when I found my mind wandering off from the action on the screen, I was brought back to my kind of music.Basically, we have three BFF girls who bury some kind of lame time capsule barely six inches into the ground (but, protected by a plastic bag, damnit!) only for them to open it on their High School graduation night.Well, these friends drifted apart to become caricatures of said Lifetime Movie females and reluctantly, they do dig up the box. Suddenly and coincidentally, they all have missions to complete across the country and a could-be killer agrees to drive them to their individual destinies.Wow. The more I type this synopsis out, the less I think it's a good movie, but I do remember (again) not hating it. Surprisingly, Before-Crazy Britney didn't perform that bad, the Star Trek chick was interesting to see while on leave, and the pregnant one &#x96; who was she? &#x96; was okay. The maybe killer male of the foursome cross-countriers was more creepy than sinister, and he did what he could in this.Not a life-changing movie, nor even great for young teen girls to get a lesson out of. And&#x85;It's Not a Great Movie, Not Yet a Rifftrax Target.* * * Final thoughts My excuse is the How Did This Get Made? podcast which (really didn't make me, but I'll say they did) made me watch this. If you must watch this, make sure you listen to their take following. You will not feel your time was wasted then. "}{"Title":"Crossroads? Hmm...should I leave or stay????","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Yes those were the only Crossroads I saw.First and foremost I'm not going to turn this into another Britney bashing session, but what the hell was she and her management staff thinking, when they agreed to go through with this movie! Britney is not a bad actress at all. But you'd only be able to see that through a plot concieved in OUR galaxy.This intergalactic ordeal actually started when I was finished watching The Count of Monte Cristo and had some extra time so I decided to stay for a double feature. Then I reluctantly stepped into the colesseum known as Crossroads to be thrown into the theatrical Ring of Death. I was unknowingly put up against an ambush of formidable adversaries. The screenwriters, leading the assault, started with the sledge hammer of bad characterization. After being pounded with the fact that Kit IS stuck up, MiMi the outcasted pregnant girl IS shy, Lucy the only half-way believable character IS lonely and feels not wanted. I told them I get it, but they just wouldn't listen. They just kept beating me over the head with the fact that the girls have these traits.After escaping the first few scenes of the movie I felt more violated than Mimi. I guess they wanted me to really understand how she feels; I get it...believe me. Did it end there Hell No.Now we finally get on the trip. The fun part. Away from parents. Just friends together chillin. Right. Nope. They all hate each other! Like you would take a trip across the country with a bunch people you don't like, in a car being driven by a complete stranger, that's supposedly an ex-convict! I don't buy it.(WARNING END SPOILER COMING UP)If that wasn't enough the grand finally of my imprisonment was the quick but deadly melo-drama one-two-punch. Kit and Mimi go to see Kit's fiance, and can you believe it the low-life is in his apartment with the beautiful Jamie Pressley! How dare he. Is that it. No. He gives Mimi this wierd look and Kit realizes HE'S the one that raped Mimi! Holy Shredded Wheats, what's going on here. I'm crushed. Is that it No, you haven't had enough. Mimi runs away hysterically and somehow forgets how to run down steps, trips, and ends up having a mis-carriage. O My god. I was down for the count.My last chance to survive was the last scene, the great finale, where everything comes together. There's hope, as the writers lent me a helping hand and started to pull me up. But to my surprise, Britney Spears sings...you guessed it I'm not a Girl. And it was only the SIXTH time in the movie! I must be a whuss!So I stumbled out of the theater defeated. Hey at least I left with something I know now WrestleMania ain't for me.MY SCORE 9 out of 10....10,000 "},{"Title":"Pure dung lying on the road.","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I wanted to say a worse word, but I'm not sure imdb would allow that. This movie requires one thing.  The fast forward button.  This thing runs like a soap opera.  Hit fast forward and you'll figure out the movie without the torture.I'm sure Britney Spears can do better than this tripe.  I think she sings just fine (she can't write, but she can sing).This movie was simply a vehicle to show more skin.  (from what I've heard she begged the director to let her be at some point or part naked.) Course that could be a rumor.  But hey,  nudity isn't required if it's a good movie.  This movie will only appeal to her greatest of fans (young females)  and even they might split.2/10Quality 0/10 Entertainment 1/10 Replayable 0/10 "},{"Title":"Skip this road trip--you're bound to get carsick","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Naturally, going in to see a Britney Spears film, I'm not expecting Citizen Kane.  But this is still a horrible, horrible movie!  Since it was produced by MTV films, they should've just showed it on MTV.  Hell, they could've gotten away with it--especially since the film contains no foul language or nudity.  This should've NEVER made it to the big screen! Britney is--and I say this without hesitation--a horrible actress.  In one scene she's crying to her father (Dan Aykroyd) without tears!  Did she take any acting lessons prior to making the film?  Most of the cast is second-rate, but there's some wasted talent here and there.  I don't know what is it with Dan Aykroyd.  He hasn't had a memorable role since Coneheads!  He went from an SNL superstar to taking on thankless roles like this!  If I were Mr. Aykroyd, I'd fire my agent.  Zoe Saldana, who was great in Center Stage (an underrated flick I really admire), is good but she has very little to work with in such a two-dimensional role.  Every character in the movie is two-dimensional.  The screenwriter must've read Character Arcs for Dummies.  Kim Cattrall only has about two minutes of screen time, and that was a good move on her part.  I can tell she's concerned about her reputation.  The plot is contrived and predictable.  There are many melancholy moments, but I couldn't feel a single emotion--unless you count boredom as an emotion--because all the plot points are created in such a labored Hollywood fashion.  From the very beginning, I was extremely turned off.  We're introduced to the three main characters.  Lucy (Britney) is established as an introverted bookworm who hangs out with the geek squad.  Yet she still wears sexy, cleavage-enhancing outfits.  Her ex-friend Kit (Saldana) is one of those stuck-up popular girls who hisses at the sight of girls like Lucy.  And her other friend is a pregnant tomboy.  This is such an obvious setup and we know that they're all going to end up arm-in-arm, as best friends again, by the end of the film.  We're not stupid.  About the only positive thing I can note (and this is just for the guys out there) is Britney wears some very sexy outfits.  In the opening scene, she's dancing in her underwear.  Now, I'm not one of those hypocrites who takes delight in bashing Britney.  I think she has a reasonable amount of talent as a singer.  I'm not a big fan of hers, but I like some of her music.  I just think she should stay away from the silver screen--along with Mariah Carey and all those other musicians/wanna-be actors (with a few exceptions of course).My score  2 (out of 10)           "},{"Title":"A cheesy little movie!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads is a cheesy little movie which isn't that bad. Some of the scenes were just a little unbelievable though and did remind me of a few other movies, Coyote Ugly (Which is a better movie.) for example. The story-line here starts of with three young girls, Lucy, Mimi and Kit who are best friends, but as they grow up they drift apart. After there high school graduation though they basically reunite and go on a road trip along with 'bad boy' Ben to make there dreams come true. The performances here from the likes of Britney Spears and Taryn Manning are not exactly brilliant, but they are not terrible either and Anson Mount is shaping up to be a good actor. He's pretty cute too. All in all, nothing special here, but good enough. "},{"Title":"Almost As Bad as Paris Hilton's Movies...","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The only good thing I can say about this movie, is that, in some ways, it's A BIT better (read less annoying) than Mariah Carey's, J.Lo's and Paris Hilton's movies. While this one is truly awful, the aforementioned are even beyond that.The acting is atrocious. We all know that Britney can't act, but... everyone else in the movie was equally bad. It's like, Britney's team wanted to find people that would make Britney look good (at acting), which is VERY difficult. They picked THE WORST cast ever! Honestly, these so-called actors are an embarrassment.This is just another vanity movie. It is clear that Britney has no interest in acting; she's just doing this to show off or something. There's no difference between this movie and one of Britney's music videos. None. This is not really a movie as such, is it? Seriously, I can't imagine what sort of person would ever consider praising anything about this movie. Everything - every single thing - about it is s***.An empty, stupid, meaningless, all-round disastrous mess. "},{"Title":"A terrific little movie and solid debut for Britney Spears","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Wisely, Britney Spears has chosen a modest debut to her acting career. No doubt she could have gone instead for a big studio film, but quite courageously, she's chosen to cut her teeth on something rather more gritty. Yes, her performance is at times a little raw, but surely that's the point - this is, after all, a film about three teenage girls and their struggle to cope with impending adulthood, as they try to come to terms with what were once their dreams. This is a warm, thoughtful film, finely directed by Tamra Davis, with well-judged performances all-round. Its a production which truly manages to make the most of its independent feel.Go and see it for yourself - you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A wonderful and fun road trip movie","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Most likely, the reason this movie receives the negative reception it does is because there is a bunch of Britney Spears haters out there, that their first intentions of this movie when they hear she is in it is, Just what we need; another talentless singer starring in their own cash-in, poorly made film, and when they sit down to watch it all they have is negative thoughts from the get-go, which of course ultimately affects their opinion of the movie in the outcome if all they have to say through the entire movie is how bad every single thing is, not even giving it a chance to be anything more. I, for one, am a Britney Spears fan, and for everyone who thinks that of course every fan would love it, that is just not true. I was able to give the actual film a chance and love it for what it is. Of course I still loved Britney, but the movie is actually really entertaining and enjoyable for me, and I strongly wish that would have been the case for more people, but it was not.The movie is just all around very fun and entertaining. It has very likable performances, a nice plot and great spunk that I find myself very amused with every time I watch it. The characters, while I admit they could have been better written, were all very lovable and excellently portrayed, and while there is a lot of dried out material, because I understand it is not a masterpiece, it was not meant to be a masterpiece to begin with and the material works for what the films tries to be, which is just a guilty pleasure, even though I am certainly not guilty for loving it. It plays out very well, spending enough time on the three girls at the beginning to give us a sense of their personalities and friendship so we can learn more about them as the film progresses, and while there are some antics along the middle of the film that some might find boring and meaningless, I thought all the mishaps and faults with the characters' lives were very relevant and meaningful. It is a bit mediocre at times, and like I said some characters, like Lucy's parents, could have been better developed, but it is ultimately satisfying to what I was looking for when I sat down to watch it.It was a nice road trip movie, and has aspired a cult following over the years by many people who see it for what it is instead of not letting themselves have a good time with it. I think it is very enjoyable and it has some heartfelt scenes, excellent songs and an overall great feel and atmosphere to it. The heinous reviews are bogus, and I would encourage anyone who may love this movie for what it is, a fun road trip movie with heart and enjoyment, to see it whenever they get the chance. "},{"Title":"The BEST film","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" After watching Crossroads for possibly the 7th time, I can now conclude that it is quite possibly the best film I've ever seen. For starters, the cast is star studded and may have been selected by God. To see Dan Akroyd cry as Brittany Spears destroys that audition is a gift I was not sure I'd be graced with in my lifetime. The story is so eloquently pieced together with humor, drama, and romance. Not only am I watching Crossroads, but I am experiencing Crossroads. When the girls laugh, I laugh, when Ben gets angry, I get angry, and when they cry, boy do I cry. The intertwined stories of these girls is beyond genius, and even after watching am I haunted by their stories. Watching their friendship re-blossom as Ben and Lucy fall in love is so rewarding as a mere viewer. On top of all this, the movie has a great soundtrack! Filled with 90's pop hits and a few Brittany songs, it really is the heartbeat that this film deserved. You may notice I've referred to Crossroads only as a film, not a movie, because in my opinion, it is too esteemed to be called just a movie. Crossroads is a cinematic experience for the ages! "},{"Title":"Almost Bad Enough to Be Unredeemable","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Three childhood best friends, and a guy they just met, take a road trip across the country, finding themselves and their friendship in the process.Let me say that there are a few good things about this movie. First, Bowling For Soup is in this movie and a few of their songs appear. Most people probably won't notice, but I did and I appreciate it. What would have been better is a Bowling For Soup movie with Britney Spears just showing up in the background.We also have a few good cameos Justin Long (who is surprisingly muscular for such a small guy) and Dan Aykroyd. They are more or less wasted in this film, but it is not unusual. If I recall correctly, there was a throwaway in another movie of the time, Coyote Ugly. (I think it was John Goodman, but I've tried to block that movie out of my brain.) This is, for better or worse, a Britney Spears movie. If you think she is attractive (I don't), this might appeal to you. If you're a girl who grew up in the late 90s, this might appeal to you. But let's be honest, the singing from Spears is not that good. She is not a terrible artist, but she did not achieve super-stardom for her voice.As an interesting side note, this movie introduced the world to Taryn Manning, who sort of plays the bad girl. Who knew that it would turn out she was so much more bad than we ever thought? Maybe not Amanda Bynes bad, but if the allegations of violence are true, she's a scrapper! "},{"Title":"If You Dislike It- You're Just A Fat Ugly Pig With Bad Taste!","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Nobody set out to make a Titanic 2.0, they knew they were just making a cute little movie. I'm sorry you guys are inept? Incapable or understanding it's just a cute little movie with an incredible soundtrack and cast? It's just cute. That's it. Stop reading so much into it. The Princess of Pop/Queen of God and Earth wanted to make a romantic comedy, and she did it. I'm just confused as to why people in the review section seemed to expect some Schindler's List level depth to a movie where Britney dances in her underwear to Open Your Heart by Madonna. It was cute and lets leave it at that! Not every movie needs to be freaking Shawshank Redemption. P.S.- Britney is Christ. "}{"Title":"A movie about nothing","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Out of pure boredom I decided to watch this movie on Netflix. Maybe I was expecting way too much for a teen road-trip movie but this was just bad i.m.o. It starts off with a group of girls, who are bff's burying a box and making a pact to come back years later and dig it back up. It goes right to eight years later and all of a sudden the girls are no longer friends without any type of explanation as to why. They go dig up the box and the pregnant girl says hey I'm going to California on Sunday and they all decide to go even though they just hated each other in the previous scene and the whole point of the trip is that the pregnant girl is going to audition for a record company, although you basically never hear the girl sing. At the end, Britney is the one who ends up singing at the audition, which makes no sense really if you're going by what the plot is supposed to be. I'm rambling. Bad acting, Britney is not a good vocalist, and the movie is just boring and pointless. Zoey Saldana and Dan Akroyd couldn't even make this movie enjoyable. The plot jumps all over the place and...I just want the 90 minutes of time I spent watching this movie to be given back. "},{"Title":"Don't regret watching it, but probably not something I'll revisit","Date":"24 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's not really a good movie, but for the most part it wasn't difficult to sit through. The dramatic elements are worse handled than the comedic scenes, and they definitely wasted Dan Aykroyd. He's a great talent, they should've taken more advantage of his presence. The whole Not Yet A Girl, Not Yet A Woman poem is pretty cringe worthy (and I don't really like that song in the first place), and I hate how clichéd the reason is for Ben having been in prison. Taryn Manning's voice was pretty irritating. It's not a huge plot point, and is only really shown in the first fifteen minutes or so, but I think it's pretty funny how low the social status of Britney's character is in high school, even though she's kind and gorgeous. Fun fact Robert De Niro (a fan of Spears) ran lines with Anson Mount and ultimately convinced him to do the movie. "},{"Title":"Cross Words.","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Three recent high school graduates (Britney Spears, Zoe Saldana and Taryn Manning) rekindle their childhood friendship and decide to go to Los Angeles. In L.A. they hope to get a record contract by winning a music competition. Along the way they pick up a mysterious young hitchhiker (Anson Mount) and his enigmatic past becomes a key point. Super light-weight teen film fluff that has lots of drama mixed in to try and give the product a little more credibility. Basically the movie is nothing more than an opportunity for Spears to get in the theatrical spotlight. She is not the reason the movie fails. The screenplay is nothing special and the typical problems/resolutions are old and tiring. Dan Aykroyd makes a short appearance as Spears' nervous father (ala his role in the My Girl series). 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"An the Oscar for Best Actress......","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  An the Oscar for Best actress... is not a line we might consider hearing when we think of Britney Spears acting debut. However, i some how managed to end up watching this movie twice. Maybe it was the fascinating an alluring plotline....no. Or perhaps it was the realistic, and believable acting of Britney and her co-stars...no. In the end it comes down to our fascination with singer's acting and actor's singing, we always want to see what their like in vice versa roles. So watch Crossroads if your looking for some meanless fun on a rainy sunday, but not if your looking for an Oscar winning performance! "},{"Title":"Could have been worse..","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the things Crossroads is about is the awakening of old relationships, and the making of new ones. Lucy (Britney Spears), Kit (Zoe Saldana), and Mimi (Taryn Manning) were once very close in childhood and pledged friendship forever. Years later, we find they have grown apart. Spears' parents are separated and she has an overbearing father (Dan Aykroyd) intent on pushing her into medical school. Kit, self-centred and with a fiancé in Los Angeles, feels her old friends are beneath her. Mimi is pregnant, but she still hopes to make a career in show business. For different reasons they all end up in a car driven by Justin (Anson Mount) on the way to L.A. and differences soon set in...   Spears' debut movie turns out to be a lightweight chick flick, pleasing if ultimately unmemorable. Crossroads, written for the star, not unexpectedly plays around the Spears' persona, a much-hyped virginal nature in which one can choose to believe or not. Her attempts to have it both ways is manifest in the song '(I'm) Not A Girl, Not Yet A Woman' while the film's major vocal set-pieces (bedroom, karaoke and final concert) together form an arc, taking the singer from daddy's girl to performing woman of some experience. Blonde, clean and slightly bland, Spears' nearest screen equivalent is probably Doris Day. But while making a game enough effort at playing the undemanding part of Lucy, she lacks that useful Rock Hudson-type to play up against. The character of the rough-and-ready Justin (in whose car the three girls spend much of the time) is comparatively underwritten, without the balance and irony required.     Spears gives an understated performance, not as bad as some critics have made out, although it is hard for her to overcome the dullness of a character whose most dramatic moment (for many viewers) is to dance around her bedroom in her underwear. The long-telegraphed dalliance with Justin, his tattooed back and all, is in stark contrast to the hesitation she shows earlier when the inexperienced Henry tried to bed her. Clearly Lucy has discovered something about herself along the road, best demonstrated by her final move to independence from her father. What this is exactly, apart from a preference for amenable ex-cons, is uncertain. Her failure to articulate herself either before, and after, her journey (although her dissatisfaction with her life is hinted at) is regrettable, for it leaves her character's potential unfulfilled and the audience none the wiser. This is not helped by the fact that her crucial interview with her mother, exactly the time when Lucy would have been most emotionally exposed is omitted, related by her only briefly in retrospect. Lucy is too private for her own good.   While Lucy's attraction for Justin is understandable to most women viewers, the peculiarly understanding nature of her father is less so. He has cosseted his daughter over a number of years, worked and saved to further her career, then comes all the way to L.A. to bring her back home. His then mute acceptance of Lucy casually rejoining a guy she met on the road (as well his vaguely ludicrous expression of enjoyment during her final concert) is far fetched, to say the least. That Aykroyd manages to smooth over a lot of his character's unconvincing behaviour is a tribute more to his ability of inducing suspension of disbelief, than any dramatic truth in the script.     The other two girls in the plot require less discussion. As the snooty black bitch two-timed by her fiancé, Kit's fall from her high horse is just as predictable as Mimi's pregnancy, once it has served its purpose, is suddenly dispensable. One senses that a better film could have been made had there been a single travelling companion created for Lucy, perhaps just the worldly and 'soiled' Mimi, whose air of gritty determination is perhaps the most convincing item in the film. Her lack of development as a character is regrettable, as she has more to offer Lucy in the way of an education in life than the slightly vacuous Justin.     At the end of the day, the success of Crossroads depends on how Spears is showcased, rather than the strengths and weaknesses of the supporting cast. Other singers, notably Prince and Madonna, have made much more self-indulgent and less quietly entertaining films than this. Fans of the singer will find Spears' vocalising in pink bra and panties agreeable enough; some will enjoy the slight coming of age plot passes the time; others may want something more substantial for their money. "},{"Title":"What did you expect?!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Of COURSE it was  a Britney Spears vehicle. Of course it was cliched. Of course she's not the most amazing actress - it was her first film, and she's a popstar, for God's sake. So expectations were not low, just that it was going to be Britney singing a lot and trying to act a bit. And it delivered. It was a fun piece of popcorn that was wholly good-hearted and a nice thing for kids to go and see on a Saturday afternoon. She's not evil, just manufactured and trying her best... "},{"Title":"Not worth it","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  *SPOILERS AHEAD* Crossroads was just the run-of-the-mill There's the guy! There's the girl! They have problems! They solve them! They get together! kind of thing. I rented it because, well, I had basically rented every other movie I wanted to see in Blockbuster. It really wasn't worth the money. Britney Spear's acting was pretty decent- there was no noticeably bad scenes. I actually had more issues with her two friends' acting. Well, any way, it was useless to sit through the whole thing. 10 minutes into the movie you know the outcome. The plot is rather minimal, it only comes back to you every now and then. 3/4 of the reason for this movie seems to be, Wow, listen to her sing! Every few minutes in the movie they go off singing again. I also thought it was kind of funny the pregnant one was trying to become a famous singer. Kind of crazy. All-in-all, its really just pointless. I can only assume it was made to boost her fame. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as expected!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A little bit of honesty With Ms. Spears in the movie I expected it to be 90 minutes of crap music video with her in the spotlight all the time.OK, she does appear in most shots of the movie, and her story is the main story of the movie. But somewhere under all the music video stuff is an actually OK movie, and I think that most people would have given this movie bigger credit, had it not been for the casting of Spears as Lucy Wagner.Don't watch it in the theater, but it's worth renting at your local video outlet. "},{"Title":"......A Plain Review","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  CRossroads is one of the movies where you would like to go see becuase of Britney. I Really Like britney, i have been a fan of hers since she hit the big time. When i heard she had a movie coming out, i wasnt Woo'ed becuase i knew that it probably wont be that great. ALmsot every actor/actress starts off with a pretty bad film. With a few Corrections, better directing and having the acting been a little better.....this may of been a halfway decent film. The Acting of Ben Kimble was pretty good for an unknown. Britney tries her hardest to act but dosent do a real good job of it. The Plot of the fiml wasnt that bad- if it only had some more spice..it may of been good. The Flow was awful and this is mostly blamed on the directing which was also preety pitiful. If you had Rob Riner directing, this may of been a totally diffrent and much better film. I Do give Britney Crdit for trying, but it would be nice if she did take some more acting lessons.Acting 6/10 Plot 6.5/10 Directing 2/10  Flow 3.10  Feelgood 8/10Overall 5.1/10 "},{"Title":"Not good, not bad, just...okay","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Being male and everything, I am a fan of Ms Spears so I watched this on dvd. While Crossroads won't win any originality (or creativity) awards, there are far worse movies you can see.  Britney dances in her underwear - what more did we ever want from a Britney Spears movie?  Anson Mount even comes off okay despite playing the stereotype 'hunky' guy.  Spears looks great and certainly has acting potential, she just needs to be in a better movie. You can just imagine how the pitch must have gone before production began 'Let's make a low budget road movie where Britney struts around in skimpy clothes and has 'issues'.  We'll make a fortune even if it stinks.'  The disheartening thing is... they were right. "}{"Title":"I gave her a chance, but expected better","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Even though I never really liked Britney, I decided to give her a chance and swallow my pride.  I rented the DVD this past week and realized that she doesn't act very well, but she has some time to work on it.  I think that what bothered me most was that she portays this innocent little girl act and claims to stay a virgin until she is married, but here she is having sex with some guy she's known for less than a month (and also for a while thought he was a murderer). I think it totally throws away all her credibility, whether she is acting in a movie or not.  It focused too much on Britney.  Maybe she should just stick with singing. "},{"Title":"About as average as you can get.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This mediocre coming of age movie treads no new ground but the terrible reviews are unheralded.  If not for the polarizing effect of Britney Spears on today's society, this offering would have been labled average and soon forgotten.  Decent acting and fairly well developed characters are this films strong points.  To it's credit, the script ,however unimaginative, refrains from being heavy-handed.  By the end of the film the characters, though changed, remain flawed young-adults.  Award a few points for honesty. Nothing memorable happens to set this film apart from other coming of age movies, but the ninety minute escape is worth the trip, if only once.  "},{"Title":"Not THAT Bad","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although the story was lucid, Anson Mount was intolerable, and the direction was possibly worse than Stuart Little (if that is even possible), The three female leads put on a better than expected performance. Actually Zoe Saldena was very good,compared to the rest. This movie was not as horrible as was anticipated. "},{"Title":"I just want to say","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw this story not all of the story because I knew the goal of this performance. it wants to make someone became another status such like Mariah carey , madonna  etc. I don't want to tell about my feeling because it's not contained in the dictionary but I know the truth  I realize that THIS IS NOT A MUSIC VIDEO, NOT YET A GOOD MOVIE.    "},{"Title":"OK, so its not Oscar worthy..","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  At the end of the day we all knew that this was a movie especially designed for Britney and not for the viewing of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. Admittedly I had troubles finding someone to go watch this with me (most could not justify spending the $14). Finally one of my girlfriends agreed to come with me which proved to be a mistake on my part since she laughed hysterically at all the inappropriate times. I don't blame Britney, I really don't. Her acting isn't too bad. The story should have been better. The worst part - the humming to 'I'm not a girl, not yet a woman' was too much to take seriously. That has to be the worst song in the history of pop ballads.Good casting in Anson Mount, Zoe Saldana and Taryn Manning. I found Dan Ackroyd and Kim Cattrall unusually awkward.If you're a fan of Britney's, then this one's for you. This one is also for you if you feel like watching something that requires no major brain activity. I would suggest it was the former lot that applauded at the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Britney needs more to go !","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well I won't say that Britney's acting was awful,she surely got lotta experience acting in most of her videoclip,but that's the point.Seeing this movie is just like seeing another longer version of her videoclip. I must admit that she is one of an icon in today's pop singer,and it's quite reasonable for her to achieve that,but to start a bang in movie world,I think she needs more attempts to go.It just seemed that in the movie she keeps potraying an image of a young,sweet and innocent girl facing the live of an outside world as the image already build in her on actual daylife,geez...that's just unbearable,I think she needs to learn a lot from J-Lo,who shows great intense in performing different kinds of act in different kinds of genre,even more,J-Lo's performance in each of her films is BOLD and not bad as well.That's what acting really is,and if Britney keeps focus on performing in more films like this 'So predictable' Crossroads,I suggest her to just pop in more videoclips to prevent more bad critics onward.  "},{"Title":"Not that bad...","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, let's see...The movie has all the teen movies clichés but it's entertaining, at least it has been for me. If you are looking for a deep message you won't find it in this movie, but if you are looking just to spend time (with your girlfriend) or just want to see Britney Spears, it worth it. But if you want a good movie... I recommend you to wait 'til the vhs come out. "},{"Title":"Good teenager's movie","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In my 34 I went to see the movie with a bad feeling. But it appeared to be a quite good movie for youth with a solid plot. Surprisingly. It is a bit like La Boum with young Sophie Marseau.5.5 of 10 points "},{"Title":"surprising","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went and saw this movie opening night (there was nothing better to do. That's what you get for living where I live).  I went in expecting a pile of (expletive deleted here) and came out really quite surprised.  I have seen worse movies (On The Line, for example, and I'm an NSYNC fan).  The storyline is a bit predictable, but nonetheless enjoyable and there are some dramatic and surprising elements.  Spears' beauty radiates from the screen and though she's not the best actress, she put Mariah Carey to shame. Glitter makes Crossroads look like Gone With the Wind.  Anyway, what I'm trying to say is, Crossroads is definitely not Oscar material but enjoyable if you're looking for a fun, chick-flick style movie.  6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Better than some","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  MILD SPOILER ALERT !!!!I am not a Britney Spears fan, but I went along to see Crossroads anyway. Judging from the poor reviews that this film has received, I expected to hate it. But I didn't. I was quite pleasantly surprised. It wasn't the best film I've seen, but far from the worst. Compared to similar vanity projects, or Madonna's risible cinematic ventures, this is comparatively good. Britney Spears isn't the best actress, but she makes a sufficient impression in her film debut. The film tackles bold issues compared to other films of it's ilk, and goes along at a pleasant pace. The performances of her co - stars aren't too bad either. Don't get me wrong - there are moments of sheer schmaltz, and a few unintentional laughs, not to mention a drippy ending, but this is a decent enough film. At any rate, it is better than rubbish like Madonna's Shanghai Surprise, which makes Crossroads look like Citizen Kane.Overall, this is reasonable entertainment, worth watching for the hilariously schmaltzy 'piano scene' alone, which had me in fits of laughter.5/10  "}{"Title":"Good Road Film","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although it feels like a combination of other movies (Glitter, Coyote Ugly, Where The Boys Are '84, etc.) it's a good starring vehicle for Britney Spears. It's not all fun in a convertible here. There are several dramatic moments. Britney's eye candy & her assets are used to full advantage. Her acting is much better than I expected. All the characters do not wind up with a happy ending, but the finale is uplifting.  "},{"Title":"It's ok","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is ok. I would give it a 5/10. The good thing about this movie is that it had something happening every minute. The bad thing is that i have to agree with the others, britney may not be the best actress but not the worse. Also since she is a pop star, she will make lots of money off this movie. Just like any other movie that pop stars are in. I took my 11 yr old niece and my 5 yr old nephew to see it. He liked it because she was prancing around half naked in the beggaining. And my niece liked it because she is a fan of all that pop music. I just thought that i was ok.  "},{"Title":"A pretty girl making a lot of money","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  So, do you expect anything different from this film?  It is a teen story, intended to be no more than that.  Under this point of view I believe that Britney Spears' acting is OK, so stop all the critics, she's a beautiful girl, doing what she can, and making a lot of money.  Perhaps she's smarter than you think "},{"Title":"Decent girl movie. But Britney sings -(.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  A movie from ... Britney Spears ? Funny. She has to copy Madonna in every way, doesn't she ? And it can only be bad, can't it ? But it's funny. So I had to watch it.Well, the basic idea for the script was NOT bad. A movie about the problems of teenager girls. That is, about friendship between girls, finding an identity, finding their own way, boyfriends, first sex, date rape, unwanted pregnancy and so on.Unfortunately, the script author didn't managed to get a really interesting story out of it. Instead of some living characters, we only get more or less stereotypical ones. It was however very realistic, and mentioned many of the real life problems teenager girls might get into.And who wants to see Britney in underwear (and likewise dressings), throughout the whole movie again and again and again ? That was not very original.Another problem of the movie was music. Many scenes where only there to promote the new song of Britney, 'Not a girl', and therefore simply nerved.The acting, however, was really not bad. I didn't expected anything from Britney, but in fact I've to state that I've seen far worser actresses than her. The script was the problem, not her acting.But what also really sucked was Britneys idea that she could actually sing. It wasn't really a big problem as long as she was singing her own material. But at one place of the movie, she compares herself to nobody less than - Joan Jett ! By singing Jett's song I love Rock n' Roll before a mass of people, who pretended that her singing was actually good, while in fact she had not even enough voice to be really understandable ! It was so bad, so abysmal, so painfull !!!The acting of the others wasn't bad either, I especially liked Taryn Manning (appeared already in Crazy/Beautiful with Kirsten Dunst).If you want to watch a really good movie of this kind, I would recommend the fantastic masterpiece 'Strike' with Heather Matarazzo, Kirsten Dunst, Rachael Leigh Cook, Lynn Redgrave and many others, plus an excellent script. One of the seldom movies that had actually something to tell to me.This one here only recommended for those teenage girls who are Britney fans.  "},{"Title":"OKAY?","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film wasnt that great. Okay who am i kidding this movie was horrible but you let's give Britney some credit since this is her first film but you know she has a long long long way before she can call herself an actor. Dont take on a role you can't handle or cant take the character to a certain place, no matter what the studio's or your management says will be the best for you. The ending was blaaaah, could of least had the girls had a threesome on the road trip. That would of been....intresting?  "},{"Title":"Please don't make it that bad -)","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is clearly for Girls of the age 10 to 15. So I think you have to see it in a different view. It is of course not more then average, but it's not the worst movie I ever watched. It's even far better than any slasher-movie. By the way, I watched it in a Sneak Preview in Salzburg and the people who attend are not the age I wrote about before, still we had great fun. "},{"Title":"Britney Spears as an actor? Worse People Have done it!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well, what can I say? Crossroads! If you go into a movie like that expecting anything more than a real life cartoon filmed for an audience with the average age of 12, than you are bound to be dissapointed. This movie has a few good points to it. The movie opens with Britney dancing on her bed in nothing but panties and a bra, seriously how can you not enjoy that? But then there is the bar scene, I love rock and roll is about as fast passed as molasses going up hill in january. Good call on that one!!! I think I already saw that scene last year, can we say Coyote Ugly? I can! I went into this movie expecting to see britney and I got britney. So I must say I am satisfied in this move although I did put my hat and sunglasses on before I watched it. Summary A good movie to take your little sister to, bur don't discuss it over a beer at the dinner table! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think ... (Possible spoilers)","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  So I saw this movie twice in two days, with a combined sense of admiration and mocking, and I must admit, to myself and to everyone, that I am a closet Britney fan. I don't really like her music much. I'm not attracted to the girl ... woman, whatever. I just think she's fun to watch, whether complaining about how her dancing is killing her on the latest episode of Making the Video or talking with Rosie O'Donnell about just how much she loves Justin Timberlake, that stick figure boyfriend of hers. I like her presence. I like that she seems like she'd be cool to hang out with, like she's the sort of girl who's nice enough that your parents would like her but also the sort who's wild enough that you know she'd say bad words about her own parents behind their back.Crossroads, her film debut, is complete cheese. It's not childish in the issues it deals with (sex, drinking, date rape, child abandonment, miscarriage), but it doesn't deal with those issues in any profound sort of way. In the film, if Britney's friend, White Trash Girl, had been retarded and Britney'd been on speed and run through a plate-glass window, then essentially you'd have every Helen Hunt Afterschool Special ever made. Her acting, given the story, is competent enough.If you go into the theater with a playful attitude and are ready to make fun of it as a parody of every predictable teen message movie ever made, though, Crossroads provides you with a damn fine time. Try to watch it without referring to any character by their given name, since all the characters are archetypes anyway, and the formula behind the film becomes both apparent and laughable.Britney (the Smart Girl), White Trash Girl and Popular Girl used to be friends, but the evils of high school society have forced them to break up their once solid friendship. Through odd twists of chance and through the arrival of, dare I say it, restructured priorities, they reunite, renew their friendship and hit the road with Really Cute Guy With A Past.Each has their own goal, of course. (It's a formula road movie.) Britney wants to find out why her nouveau-riche skank of a mother abandoned her. Recently knocked up, White Trash Girl wants to get out of the trailer park and feel the Pacific Ocean on her toes. Popular Girl wants to visit her fiance. Along the way, much of the usual fun and shenanigans occur as each of the girls (sob!) finds they have to grow up and learn about the real world. And then, they all sing!At face value, it's not that bad of a movie. It's watchable, which is what I come to expect when a film is released in the first two months of any given year.But if you go in ready to give it the MST3K treatment, you'll have a blast.  "},{"Title":"Best film since Titanic and Lawrence of Arabia","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Ticket sales for this film should be broadway show prices at least $80. a pop. It's a Cinematic masterpiece which looks like it was shot on 70 millimeter. But even better Britney has to be one of the best actresses on earth. What a performance, I mean a true natural. Move over Gladiator and Lord of the Rings. This film will be in the Trillions with ticket sales by the end of the Year.  Dub it in Chinese they would love it over there also. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was definitely not what I expected, but I dont agree with the other review.  Yes, there were times you could tell that Ms. Spears was new to the acting biz, but for the most part of the movie she just seemed like a normal teenager.  At first, it's strange watching her in a movie the musical star that she is but as the movie progresses she, with the help of her costars, really pulls you into the movie.  She makes you see a girl that like her song says, is not a girl yet not a woman.  I was very reluctant to see this movie being that I am NOT a fan of hers but I think it was worth the money. I'm not saying she's the next Julia Roberts, but really, she did ok.  See the movie, judge for yourself.  "}{"Title":"Call me a moron, but it wasn't that bad...","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is the first time I've felt compelled to write a review for  something on IMDb, and of all the movies I felt the need to stand up for, it's this one. I went to see this with a couple of friends as a goof, and yes, there were parts where we did groan out loud just as intensely as we thought we would. But you know what? When you get right down to it, this movie actually wasn't terrible. Sure, it was predictable and most of the characters were pretty stock. And yes, we were laughing and waving our cigarette lighters back and forth during Britney's climactic rendition of ...Not Yet a Woman. But the producers know who their target audience is, and they know 12-year-old girls won't sit through two hours of something like The English Patient. And certain parts even had me, a 23-year-old straight guy, laughing out loud (and not in embarrassment). And I know I'll really get ripped for this, but Britney's not even that awful an actress. I think part of the problem is that she was given a completely perfect, virginal, squeaky-clean character to play. But even then she didn't give the stilted, monotone line readings I'd been led to expect. She might actually have an acting career in front of her...certainly she's got more going for her than Mariah Carey. And anyway, here's the final heresy - I thought Gosford Park was such a drag that I actually fell asleep about halfway through. I didn't fall asleep during this movie. Maybe that says something, maybe it doesn't...your call. "},{"Title":"Justin Long - the true star of the `film'","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to watch this film at a free screening - there seem to be so many of those. After watching the film I understand why. In my lifetime I have bothered to listen to several Britney songs but because pop music isn't my preferred genre, I have managed to keep an unbiased view of her. But the minute I walked into the theater I knew I would either be kicked out screaming, or seat 7G would never be the same again.As luck would have it neither of these happened. The film started with three young girls and as soon I saw this I knew that I wanted it to end with three old women. Sadly it did not. The film works on many different levels, none of which are successful. Mimi's (Taryn Manning) struggles are overshadowed by Kit's (Zoe Saldana) naiveté and Lucy's (Britney Spears) petty problems. Ben (Anson Mount) dazzles with his typical good looks whereas the real star of this film is Henry (Justin Long), Lucy's ill fated lab partner. His acting is spectacular and  worthy of an Oscar, which will of course have to be presented by Billy Drago. I have no doubt that Justin will be nominated for Best Actor at next year's Academy Awards. It incenses me that no one else has recognized his true talent. Unfortunately Justin cannot save what is ultimately bad scripting (Shonda Rhimes), editing (Melissa Kent ) and directing (Tamra Davis). The other problem I have with the film is the ending. I was really looking forward to seeing a circular ending involving the three girls, obviously as old women, perhaps knitting or even playing bingo - a time honored tradition amongst older people. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you'd think","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  So it had a rather thin plot and cheesy ending.  I've certainly seen a lot worse.  At least it doesn't have you sitting around wondering when it will end.  The characters are appealing and I think Britney did a fairly good job, considering. "},{"Title":"Brit flick needs more fun, less angst.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Everyone I talk to calls it THE BRITNEY SPEARS MOVIE.  They may have seen it, they may have just heard of it - it will forever be THE BRITNEY SPEARS MOVIE.  Just as anything she toplines in the future (and feel free to hold your breath - this one turned some opening weekend coin) will be referred to as THE NEW BRITNEY SPEARS MOVIE.  So how does the movie hold its own in our crowded multiplexes?The plot, overcomplicated as it is, concerns three childhood friends who have grown apart through high school, but inexplicably rejoin to travel from Texas to California on a road trip.  One's the most popular (and meanest) girl in school, one's the egghead valedictorian, and one's the trailer trash waif with dreams of a singing career.  Guess which one is Britney?  Nope. Nope again.  She's the egghead.  Yes, ladies and gentlemen - this film wants you to truly believe that Brit's the school's virginal valedictorian whose aim is to become a doctor.  Britney.  The same one with a different hairstyle every shot, the super toned body, and the bare midsection. Okay, but enough about that...  Yes, they have a driver, yes he's extremely hot, and yes, the car is a convertable.  It's a road movie.  Brit wants to find the mother who abandoned her when she was three, popular girl wants to visit her fiancee at UCLA, and trailer trash, as mentioned, just wants to SING.****SPOILER ALERT****UNlike how the film has been being marketed, but without giving too much away, lets just say that the gals are in for some heartbreak.  BIG, LIFE CHANGING heartbreak.  But don't worry - it's all dealt with as casually as if almost nothing had happened.  And everyone gets on stage to sing the big Brit ballad I'm not a girl....not yet a woman.  Roll credits.****END SPOLIERS****Now, I didn't loathe this film like many did.  I can't say I liked it, but I tolerated it.  My biggest complaint is that this BRITNEY SPEARS MOVIE is not more FUN!!!  Call me an idiot, but this film needed more SPICE WORLD and less STAND BY ME.  The movie pops and bounces when the girls jump, dance, and sing to songs on the radio, and it comes to a complete standstill when angst takes over and they get all teary-eyed about friendship and how hard it is to grow up.  I don't need moral lessons in pain from the princess of pop.  I wanna see her smiling.  And Brit's not bad all you naysayers.  She has a natural film presence, and though we won't have to worry about her name on the ballot next year OSCAR time, she does not embarrass herself like other singer/model/whatevers before her.  And her supporting cast (stuck in the shadow of THE BRITNEY) supports without ever shining.The film seems like a missed opportunity.  It goes for pathos when a free spiritedness would have done just fine.  They made BOYS ON THE SIDE when they should have made CLUELESS.  And worst of all - they ruined the best decision they made.  Kim Cattrall was INSPIRED casting as Brit's mom.  But she's in it for three minutes, and she too is stifled under a frown of world-weary depression.  It just reinforces what an interesting and far more entertaining movie could have been made with Kim and Brit as a mother/daughter singing duo hitting the road to find their fortune.  But as it stands, sigh..... ...I can hardly wait until next year - maybe NSYNC will tackle a movie about teen suicide.  "},{"Title":"better than I expected","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I dragged my mom to see this with me and I think I was the oldest kid in the theater besides all the other moms (I'm 20). Anyway, this movie was much better than I expected. During the first few minutes I was rolling my eyes because it seemed like an excuse to show Britney in her underwear as much as it could. But it did come around. I think this is a good movie for those of you who like romantic teen dramas.. basically, if you like Britney and Dawson's Creek - you'll love this!I loved the characters and theme involving the 3 girl's friendship - to me, that was the best part of the movie. Britney can act pretty well, she was very sweet and believable. Taryn Manning was excellent as the pregnant teen. This was just a fun movie to go see with your girlfriends - nothing to take too seriously, just something fun with a good message for teen girls - although I wouldn't take anyone under 13 to see it (too many issues with virginity - might not be appropriate). "},{"Title":"Amiable, predictable `Road Picture'","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When one of my female friends cried at this Britney Spears movie, I thought `Wow, her tears are NOT because of Britney's singing!'  I learned that Britney CAN really sing.  Till then, I thought she was about as musically talented as Paula Abdul. Britney can also act and is quite charming, as is  the rest of the cast (except,  perhaps, for a surprisingly vapid Kim Catrell and a cornpone Dan Ankroyd ). Special note needs to be made of Anson Mount .  His performance is really the most interesting thing about this movie, unless the DVD release includes Britney's topless scene, which was deleted from the theatrical print.  Even that is unlikely to be any `great shakes'. After all, Britney is NOT Jessica Simpson.Possible SpoilersPro-life advocates may like the subplot involving the pregnant Taryn Manning.  She never gives any indication she wants to terminate her pregnancy, even though the pregnancy was the result of rape.  When she miscarries as the result of an accident, she shows genuine remorse and speaks of her `little girl.'  Parents might like Britney's decision not to lose her virginity to her `lab partner.'  They might not be nearly as pleased when she goes to bed with Anson Mount.  Though the attraction is obvious, there is no indication at that point in the movie there is any real commitment between the two.  However, they may be even MORE disturbed at the idea of three high school age girls traveling with a man they mistakenly believe to be a convicted murderer.A pleasant time killer; nothing more, nothing less.  "},{"Title":"Give the Girl a Break","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think Britney's performance was pretty good, considering that  Crossroads is her first film.  Since Britney is already famous as a singer and performer, it's only natural for most people to judge her film debut harder than then next new actress.  Let's throw away the magnigfiying glass for now and wait for Britney's next films.   "},{"Title":"Britney fan, didn't like the movie.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I want to make two things clear I am a huge Britney fan and I think that she is a very good actress. Now that I've made that clear, I didn't like the movie. I don't like movies that are cliche or don't surprise you. I knew ahead of time that the plot was sort of cliche, but I didn't expect the entire movie to be made of nothing but cliches and typical plot elements. The scenes were very short and the movie didn't have any meaning to it. The three main characters have been overdone. The whole movie just wasn't original. "},{"Title":"Good start","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think this was a brilliant choice for Britney Spears to start off her film career with. And I for surely was not expecting to like this movie all too much, since pop music isn't exactly my thing. But, when I went, I seperated Britney Spears the singer from Lucy the girl she plays in Crossroads. I imagine its very hard to be a famous singer, with aspirations to act. Because there are always those exact same close minded people who can't seem to picture them as anything but the singer they are. I think Britney did pretty good. Even though, my favorite actress in this movie had to have been Taryn Manning, who played Mimi. She is really good, and I'm looking forward to seeing more of her work, and to see what other roles Britney chooses. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but a nice try...","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The whole point of the movie was not bad....   But they couldve done a better job with it.  The whole point i got from the movie is that they were trying to sell Britney Spears and didnt really care how the movie did... I mean come on the had the bottle of Herbal Essence?  what a sell out.. "}{"Title":"So it was her first movie...SPOILERS","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  You have to give her some slack.  Britney's acting was okay.  She was mostly believable, probably because her character, Lucy, was so like herself. There were times when I was even impressed with her acting.  Her 'crying boo-hoo' scenes were pretty good.  She's no Julia or Annette, but, like I said, it is her first movie.Spoilers ahead...The story line was less than impressive.  It was incredibly predictable, while at the same time being totally implausible.  The movie tries to touch on 'real' teen problems, but it just comes off as contrived and even scary. I was actually quite disturbed with all the hardships loaded onto one character, Mimi (played be Taryn Manning).  She gets date raped, pregnant, and then falls down stairs and miscarries.  In the end, it seems like they just blow off what happened to her.  I actually could not sleep last night thinking about what happens to that poor character.  In a movie such as this, you'd think all the characters would end up happy, but I just don't see how she could ever be.  I've been truly unable to think about anything else in regards to the movie.  That whole story line overshadows the movie; how can we be expected to care about Lucy's problems ('she doesn't wanna be a doctor!!') while another character is dealing with extreme crisis.  If I was a teenager or preteen seeing this movie, I would be scared out of my wits.  The miscarriage should not have happened; it was just too much.I certainly would not recommend this movie unless you're a huge Britney fan. If you have to see what all the fuss is about, at least go on cheap movie night.  And be prepared, maybe dont bring your little girls to this; this movie would be too much for them. "},{"Title":"That is crazy!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads... there are so many questions. 1) They sing in a karoake contest at a bar and somehow make enough money to pay $350 for car repairs and a high class hotel room. That's not even including the nice hotels they slept in for the rest of the trip and other expenses. 2) Why is this movie so predictable? I mean, OF COURSE the boyfriend is cheating. C'mon. But they could of at least spiced it up a little. Maybe he could be with another guy! The plot twist was good with him and Mimi... I won't give the one 'surprise' element away to those who haven't seen the movie. 3) In the scene where the girls are rebonding and sharing life stories, Britney (oh, sorry, Lucy) tells them about the drama surrounding her mother leaving her when she was 3. If they were friends when they were young, wouldn't they already know that her mom wasn't a part of the picture? It's not like they just met. 4)The movie covered every issue possible as quickly as you can say 7th Heaven. Teen pregnancy, drinking, love, abandonment, parental problems (although no real mention is made of Mimi's parents, the fact that she's the 'trailer park girl' is mentioned frequently), unity, abuse, rape, miscarriage (oops... sorry. you know i was REAL tempted to say 'I did it again' there but i was strong!) But the most classic scene of the movie would have to be when Lucy aka Brit Brit reads her 'poetry', which is the spoken words of I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman. I laughed out loud. Literally, knee-slapping laughing. While I went in knowing it wasn't going to be an Oscar winning flick, it didn't completely suck. If you're going to see it, make sure to go to a matinee or wait until it's at cheap theatres or better yet, on video and DVD. It's not worth $8.00-$10.00. But I still love ya Brit... and Justin is ten times better than Ben (was his last name Pimple?)! lol.  "},{"Title":"Britney is gold, movie is trite","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I will try my best to give an objective opinion, leaving my bias for Britney out of it.Crossroads is not the best movie you'll ever see. Crossroads is definitely not the worst movie either.The story isn't spectacular and the characters are mostly all stereotypes (the smart girl pushed to hard by the parents, the girl who took a wrong turn somewhere and got pregnant, the stuck up snob, and the tall, dark, and handsome mysterious heartthrob), but the acting is decent and Britney looks amazing (there's that bias).I advise parents to not bring their ten-year-olds to this movie. In my opinion, the movie borders on an R-rating. There is nothing too over the top, however, parents might be disenchanted with their children seeing some of the scenes. I gave Crossroads a 7. In reality, the movie is about a 5. It doesn't really leave you with a message, or moral, or much lasting thought about the story. On the other hand, the most beautiful woman in the world is in the movie. I have a special attachment to the number 7, so there ya go. 7 it is. Don't believe the 1's, and don't believe the 10's. The movie is middle of the road, enhanced by Britney. "},{"Title":"riiiiiight...leeeeeeeeft","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Now when seeing this movie I kept saying why is it not rated R. When seeing the movie i realized why. no nudity. The acting was brilliantly awful while the movie was great and bad. The acting needed to be worse, it was too good. Britney shows she can not only sing, dance and look good all the time, but she shows she can act and for that I say...please for the love of god spare us all! This movie needed something, it was great but one thing was missing, oh yeah goodness. The acting was on par with greats like Ken Gibson, JC Svec (who loved the movie), Lila Kurshmer and of course nipple midgetman. "},{"Title":"It wasn't that bad!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, I went to see Crossroads on opening night with my two friends mainly as a joke.  I think Britney is a fox and I wanted to see her in skimpy clothes, but thats besides the point.  We're all 17 year old guys who mainly listen to death metal so don't think we're fans.  But i actually didn't think the movie was too bad.  Britney looked great in it and could actually act.  I only gave it a 4 but thats good for my ratings.  The only down points in the movie were when they would incorporate her music into the movie, such as the karaoke scene and her boyfriend writing im not a girl.  that was just stupid.  but i would recommend this movie to any britney fan and especially to any guys who want to see her wearing skimpy underwear.  it was sweet. "},{"Title":"Brittney can sing, Brittney can dance....","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  But Brittney can't act...A definite renter here...Bring the kids and put them to sleep...Crack open a window Willy, cause this one is going to stink up the theatre...No offense guys and girls, maybe a couple movie for couples needing to go on separate crossroads... "},{"Title":"Could have been better. . .","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to a screening of this last night. . .the problem really lies in the script--it is horribly written.  Britney Spears is not a bad actress--she's not Oscar caliber, but she worked well with what she was given in terms of the writing.  It sucks, because critics are going to come down hard on her for what is a bad movie, but not a bad performance.   "},{"Title":"Not near as bad as I thought it would be","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  For all the Britney doubters out there, be warned...she has decent acting chops.  This movie was much more acceptable than I expected.  The story was a little bit of a stretch, but I must admit - it made me smile.This teen road trip chick flick is a decent watch for any high school aged kid.  It tackles issues that you wouldn't expect and it does it respectably. The casting is pretty good.  I enjoyed Zoe Saldana in Centerstage and she took this character a completely different way.  Anson Mount, who plays Britney's love interest, looks a little bit like a young James Caviezel and plays his part well.I was a little disappointed in a few areas, one which sticks out more than anything.  Dan Aykroyd and Kim Cattrall turn in completely half-assed performances in their roles as Britney's parents.  Aykroyd overacts so much that you wish he wasn't on screen at all.  Cattrall acts almost upset that she is old enough to be Britney's mom (and if you've seen any interviews with her, that might be the case).Overall, though, I was much more impressed than I expected to be.  Let's not forget how horrible Madonna's first movie was (Desperately Seeking Susan). I really feel like Britney should be proud of herself for Crossroads. "},{"Title":"Dreadful corn but Britney Spears shows charm","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads (2002) Britney Spears, Anson Mount, Zoe Saldana, Taryn Manning, Dan Aykroyd, Kim Cattrall, Justin Long, D Tamra Davis. Three childhood friends in Georgia promise one another to dig up a box full of their dreams on the midnight of their high school graduation. But they grow apart, one being an ambitious miss perfect in search of her mother, a conceited prom queen, and the other a pregnant outcast who's driving to L.A. for a record contract audition, and she asks the other two to come along for the ride. More corn is the last thing this contrived soap opera/road movie needed, but this is just an excuse to prove Britney has the charisma on screen as a debuting actress. Mature subject matter, involving teen pregnancy and date rape, might be off-putting for the pop singer's fan club of 13-year-old girls, but boys will drool over the 21-year-old singing and dancing around in her undies! Running Time 93 minutes and rated PG-13 for sexual content and brief teen drinking. **    "},{"Title":"Just what I thought..","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film was absolutely everything I expected it to be. Nothing more, nothing less. The only pleasant surprise was that there was less of Britney singing than I had feared. See if you want to put your brain to sleep. "}{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just saw this movie and it was pretty good i mean Britney Spears looked pretty good in those pink panties and that braw. She did a pretty  good job acting in the critics are going to think she did horrible but she didnt and the movie is worth to go see. "},{"Title":"Not much of a movie","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Okay, so this isn't a good movie. But it isn't as bad as people say. It isn't any great, but there are much worst movies than this. I think that people in general tend to judge it too hardly.Cross Roads is notorious for being the first adventure of Britney Spears in the world of cinema. Back then she was a successful singer (although her songs aren't any worthy, except for I'm not a girl, not yet a woman) and she was at the top of her success. It was the Britney Spears fever. This literally created too much expectations about this film.This film is nothing more than mediocre or okay. It is a weak and predictable movie. Not much of a movie, but even so it has its funny moments, especially the part when the 3 girls steal Ben's car and drive him crazy. His reaction in that scene is so classic, very similar to that of the character Charlie Babbitt (from Rain Man) after a phone call. It was also funny how the girls were scared of Ben, thinking that he was a murderer, when in reality he was a nice guy.Overall, this is a movie that I recommend more for the fans of Britney Spears (if they still exist...). I can understand why this film is so under-appreciated, but even so I'm surprised with such a low rating! From what I see, it won't take much longer for this movie to win a place on IMDb's 100 bottom list. "},{"Title":"Nothing Special, but something Sweet!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Spoiler Alert!! Before I get started here, I firmly believe that people do not know how to be objective with Britney.  I don't know what it is but for some reason everyone is out to get her.  No! this was not a masterful performance, but it was not the worst thing or even close.  Especially for a first movie. Giving this a 1 like over 1,000 people did meant this movie had absolutely nothing to it at all.  I disagree!!!The movie was okay in my opinion.  It had a good overall meaning.  You had three friends who made a vow as kids to dig up a box that they buried having things in it that represented who they were and what they wanted to be. They planned to do this on prom night, not really thinking that when they grew up they would have gone there separate ways.  Needless to say nobody really wants to do it when the time comes because they have to many other problems to worry about but they end up doing it.They find out later that they have mutual need to take a trip together. Zoe to see her boyfriend who never comes back from college to see her, Mimi (taryn) to sing for a recording contract, & Lucy (britney) to resolve issues with her mom who left her and her father when she was young.The trip in my opinion is too long, and that is where the problems begin for me.  Too much singing in the car.  I guess it wasn't horrible, but it mad me very uneasy I even felt the need to shut it off. If you can make it through that part your home free.  In a way it showed how they were struggling to get along with each other.  I just think it could have been done in a much more intriguing way. During this trip Lucy and Zoe find out that Ben (anson) spent some time in prison. Ben was the one doing the driving.  Yes driving with 3 pretty women, I feel sorry for him.  They did deal with his feelings of not fitting in with the 3 girls.  So that added even more indifference to the mix.   None of the girls wanted to be alone with Ben in case he was dangerous.  He was one of Zoe's friends so it wasn't like he was a complete stranger.  They later find out he did some time for protecting his mother from his father who was an alcoholic I believe.Overall after struggling with each others company.  Lucy finds out for herself that her mother wants nothing to do with her, and that she has half brothers that she has never met.  Zoe surprises her boyfriend at college who is with another girl.  She also finds out that her boyfriend is the one who raped the Taryn Manning character and got her pregnant.  And after a frustrating question of friendship between the two girls Mimi runs away and falls down the steps, losing her baby.  This tragedy brings the three together for the first time in the movie. In the end Lucy and her father become closer because she realizes her father did whatever he could to raise her, and her father realizes she is growing up and there will come a time when he needs to let her make her own mistakes.Like I said before there is a good point to this movie, and anyone who says it is worthless or a 1 is not being objective. Britney's acting was okay! She needs a little work on the dramatic parts but not an embarassment like some people say.  The components where there, it just needed some tweeking. The whole issue with Lucy's mom could have been allot longer, that just kind of dissolved into a short segment.  Too much singing also even though in some parts it was necessary. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I rented this movie from Blockbuster I assumed that it would be terrible because of what all the critics had to say. Was it predictable? Yes. But just because its predictable doesn't make it a bad movie. Let's be honest. Almost every movie that comes out of Hollywood these days is predictable. In fact, we count the predictability of movies (see Episode II, Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings, etc.) I know the movies that I listed were scripted from books most films are.  That being said, I think that no matter how good the movie was it was doomed because too many people love to hate Britney Spears. From a purely objective standpoint, I feel that the movie was very good and Britney's acting was fantastic! I can't wait to see her on the silver screen again. "},{"Title":"Britney, ummmm","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This may not demonstrate award winning acting skills or have an edge-of-the-seat story line, but put Britney Spears in it and you've got something worth paying to see. I've read other comments on Britney's acting ability and the quality of the direction and script. The script and direction were poor but hardly Britney's fault and I've seen much worse, such as Random Hearts (Starring Harrison Ford) and Toys (Robin Williams). The acting, however, give the girl a break for goodness sake, it's her first film, you'll be hard pressed to find a better film debut from many bar the greatest Hollywood actors. Take Heather Graham, star of many films, she can't play anything more than an airhead and can't even do that well (see Austin Powers 2 for an example), yet she has no trouble finding work. I'm annoyed that the worst reviews are reserved for people who the public or press love to hate, this is not a bad film, it is however aimed at Britney fans not the small minded jealous fools that can't handle the fact that not all entertainment is designed for them. If you don't like Britney, don't watch the film, don't comment on the film and accept the fact that Britney's going to be around for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Britney Spears' Celluloid Debut","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney Spears starring in her first feature film. An extremely likeable, if at times cliched teen movie. Britney definately has great screen magnetism, although her acting isn't Oscar worthy, it's a great first film vehicle for the virginal chanteuse, who relies on her girl-next-door/snake-weilding-temptress image to cause a stir, an image used to effect in this film. Memorable scenes include Britney in the shower, Britney losing her virginity and Britney dancing in her underwear to a Madonna pop-classic (a nod to her idol). Albeit not a brilliant film, it does earn the so bad that it's good tag, because it's ten times better than any Mariah or Whitney vanity project, it does show Britney can act (a little). I recommend seeing this film just to see Britney in her undies. "},{"Title":"I thought the movie was great","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really loved this movie.  It made me wish that I was 18 again and had all my choices in front of me. Britney Spears has a great presence on screen, and I enjoyed watching her play a character so unlike her public image (the reserved, don't follow-your-dreams girl that she is at the beginning of the movie.) I also loved the friendship between the three girls, and I loved watching them get closer and closer as the movie went on and they each grew up a bit in their own way, in their own time.  The movie didn't show three girls being told what they needed to do to become the people that they wanted to be, it SHOWED them discovering this for themselves. Britney was fantastic in the singing sequences -- no secret there. And who wouldn't like a movie about a road trip across the country with your friends?  "},{"Title":"A little cheesy at times, but not an all around bad movie","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I didn't think this movie was half as bad as most people. I actually enjoyed it. I think the reason most people did not like it is because Britney Spears and the fact that she didn't get the part on how well she acts. But she didn't do as horrible a job as everyone says. In my opinion, I thought she did pretty good, especially for her first movie. I think a lot of girls can relate to this movie. And while some scenes could definitely have been done better, it was all around a pretty good movie. And the other actors in this did extremembly well. I honestly think it would've been much more accepted if most people did not already have a bad impression of Britney Spears. "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I think this film is great and I have loved it ever since I first saw it at the pictures. I mean I can also see why people don't like it, but even then I don't know how people can say it is that bad.Britney isn't the best in it, but she is still quite good and I really liked her character, she was sweet.I really like this film for it's story, it has some really great writing, I just find it really sweet and sad too, I admit that I've cried every time I've seen it at the part when Lucy gets rejected by her mother and when Mimi loses her baby ( I also love how they all become friends again by the end. It's like a full circle. I like what is said at the end when they are putting stuff in the box and burying it in the sand 'This time, we didn't make any wishes for the future. We said goodbye to our past. Now, none of us has any idea where life's gonna take us, 'cause what we have is now. And right now, we have each other.' "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Crossroads is the story of three lassies who leave their hometown and go out into the world to find themselves. It is truly a wonderful coming of age story for young women to watch. It is also one of Britney Spears' best works (besides her album My Prerogative). The movie also serves great importance as it is one of Shonda Rhimes' earlier works. Before there was TGIT there was Crossroads. I appreciate the movie for the story that it tells young women, that their friends are above all else the most important, as well as the historical importance it serves to show us what the early 2000s were like and what Shonda Rhimes was about before Grey's Anatomy. Bottom line, watch Crossroads. You will not regret it. "}{"Title":"No Clueless, but not the worst movie ever made","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, the movie was not exactly well-written, and quite predictable. Yes, Spears's acting was obviousy poor (not to mention her singing her cover version of I love rock'n'roll just proves she can't sing - or was she actually playing to perfection a girl who had never sung before ??). But the good thing (compared to my very low expectations) is that her role was not as prominent as I had feared. It was not Britney superstar with her two friends making her look good (at least until the last scenes). The rest of the cast actually did a pretty good job out of what they were given. I quite liked Zoe Saldana, and Anson Mount showed a lot of presence(though I still don't get what his character found in Britney's - she's like 10 years younger, and he doesn't exactly act like someone who could enjoy teenage crap poetry and singing !). I guess (and hope !) Dan Akroyd and Kim Cattrall probably got a nice paycheck for their collaboration, but, in Cattrall's case, it didn't show so much (she played her scene in a very unusual and touching way).All in all, it was not as bad as I had hoped (I just can't stand Britney !), but not as good as I had feared ! Of course, the stupid Britney superstar ending left a bad taste ... (but I guess it was not the director's idea...).4/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they say.","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  As a Britney Fan I was curious about this movie but avoided it after all the negitive reviews it recieved. We all know about when singers try their hands in acting and how well that turns out, not to mention any names. (Mariah and Madonna)I finally saw it and was surprised at how much I actually enjoyed it. I think people who want to see it trash it to hide their true feeling of watching it. I thought and was pleased at Britney's performance in the film as well as the other girls in the film. The one thing I thought that made this film enjoyable and real was that the girls made wishes toward their futures as kids and when they get their wishes, they crash and burn.The film holds it bad moments as well, the male lead looks like he could be over thirty. Britney's younger sister makes a cameo which is no surprise to me and to top it off, my friends and I had a hard time with Britney reciting poetry which was lyrics to Not a girl, Not yet a women.Out of Four stars I give it a Three. "},{"Title":"not as bad as it could've been","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney Spears' debut movie wasn't half the overreach that her fellow stars were guilty of (see Mariah Carey's Glitter, or Mandy Moore in A Walk to Remember).  Spears, playing sickly-sweet about-to-graduate Lucy, didn't try anything outside of her amateurish acting range with Crossroads, and while cheesy, the movie isn't a bomb.  Viewers follow Lucy and her two grade-school best friends on a road trip across the country, driven by a predictable hunky and possibly dangerous older guy (with a heart of gold). Along the way, Lucy discovers love and a talent for kareoke (who knew?), while her friends grow similarly from their coming-of-age experience.The script is no less predictable than any average teenage-aimed romantic comedy (or did She's All That? win an Oscar when I wasn't looking?). Spears' co-stars are a solid teen-ish ensemble, with Anson Mount, in particular, pulling of a performance that was at once scornful of Spears' typical audience and endearing all the same.  Dan Akyroyd is sorely underused as Lucy's father; Kim Cattral has an almost cameo appearance as Lucy's long-lost mother.Bottom line unlike most Britney Spears videos, this is one that's safe to watch with the kids. "},{"Title":"i liked it believe it or not!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  as i watched this movie i began to enjoy it, i even though britneys acting was good that i forgot it was her. i enjoyed it because it was different from all other movies, plus some very nice cinmatography.this was a very orginal movie the plot when other discribed it said it was like other films but i personaly thought like the film the characters were well written. i fully recomend this movie. "},{"Title":"Three girls on the road","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The first great cinema event with Britney Spears was a very nice film in the tradition of a funny road movie. She was drive across the USA to see her mother, but she don't want to see her. This is the tragic point in the comedy. The discussions between the girls and their conflicts have a realistic point of view. A low budget movie, who show another side of Spears as her clips. More emotional and not in a perfect style. A film about youth-culture, karaoke and love... Crossroads!  "},{"Title":"I was surprised","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"     Sure this has to be one of the most predictable movies made in a long time but they played to the strengths of the star.  Britney's character and her two friends go on a road trip to solve the problems facing them as they leave college.  Before you know it, surprise, surprise, they end up with no money and have to enter a kareoke contest.  Guess who turns out to be a pretty decent singer and wins the crowd over?  As the trip progresses the girls learn more about themselves and the world they face and, yes, there is more singing.     For a first time outing this really wasn't bad.  In fact, it was relatively entertaining and shows that Britney has more potential than many other pop stars who try to hit the big screen.  I do stress though, don't see this if you are looking for something in depth.  However, if you are looking for fluff to pass the time away, this delivers and is fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Can the Queen of Pop become a Screen Queen?","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Can the Queen of Pop become a Screen Queen?  That was the question I asked myself as I sat in the movie theater about to view Britney Spears's acting debut  in the 2002 film, Crossroads.Now, whether you are a Spears fan or not isn't the point, anyone who is a fan of so-called `chick-flicks' could enjoy this movie.  The plot simple enough, is even a bit overused in the film industry marketed towards women girl leaves home in search of her own.  Along the way she finds renewed friendship, romance, and her dreams come true.  Trite?  Of course, but MTV Films tries to make this coming-of-age movie more edgy and sexy, by adding the number one pop diva of our time.The outcome of the story is unsurprising from the beginning, a plot like this seems all too familiar (2000 film, Coyote Ugly?), but take the film for what it is  a modern-day cliche-ridden, and utterly predictable film from the start, but aren't most chick flicks now a days anyway?  Give Miss Spears a break--granted she hasn't been as successful as other crossover artists, such as Jennifer Lopez, but she hasn't been as unsuccessful as NSYNC's Lance Bass (his 2001 film debut in On the Line, reviewed far worse).  I'd give her performance a 6 out of ten.Crossroads isn't Oscar worthy, in the least, but does a movie have to win an award to make you laugh, or smile, or even feel good?  No matter how predictable, or even cheesy it is, Crossroads has a feel-good vibe, and if you don't read too much into it, could even be considered a good film. Spears is underdeveloped as an actress, but obviously puts her whole heart and soul into the film; lucky for the singing sensation they grant her a 5 minute karaoke scene in which she gets to belt out Joan Jett's hit, `I love Rock 'n' Roll', while swivelling her trademark hips and showing her famous navel.The Queen of Pop might be better suited to rule over her own kingdom, but for her first premier film debut, it could've been worse, and Britney definitely did leave me satisfied. As a skeptic from the beginning, I hesitantly paid my $5.00 to watch 94 minutes of the Queen of Pop prance around in her undies and a towel.  And surprisingly, I had a good time!  Besides the eye candy (think Anson Mount), Spears, Saldana, and Manning, bring to life a typical high school scenario. And what better way to ignite an old friendship than a road trip? Simply said, if a plot centered towards pre-teen to young adults, starring teen idol Britney Spears doesn't float your boat, don't pay to see Crossroads.  Like many other MTV flicks that attempt to help music stars cross over, Crossroads isn't any different.  It doesn't have A+ actors or even Oscar-worthy script writers, but take it as it is, a film created by Music Television; these are the people who also brought you Road Trip, the grossly disgusting hit of 2000--I think they've come along way since then.If you can ignore the fact that Britney Spears is the star of this film (for those of you that are revolted by the thought!) there is the possibility that this film will bring you some enjoyment.  And for a pop star that's `not a girl, not yet a woman', Britney Spears gives a mediocre performance. The reviews on this film might not be as good as her `Britney Does Las Vegas' Concert, but then again, she is just a pop star. "},{"Title":"Much better that i thought it would be.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought that the movie was very well put together. It showed the different sides of teenage life. I think that they could have cut Britney out of singing a lot more. There were some parts that were predictable, but it wasn't that many. It was much better that i thought it would be. "},{"Title":"good movie for the girls night out!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Okay, when you watch a movie like this you are NOT watching it for depth or a really moving storyline.  This is one of those movies that you go see with the girls just for a good time, maybe enjoying a shallow moment of teary-eyes over some mushy nonsensical love story.  If you want to be Ebert and Roeper, then I definitely do NOT recommend this movie.  If you're just a girl (age range it doesn't matter!) who wants to have a fun girls night out, this should be your first pick.  It may not be the deepest movie you'll ever see, but it's one of the best when you want to let go of cynicism and have a great time! "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was not as bad as one might think.  Ok I mean it is a teen movie aimed at a teen audience it is not a movie that is meant to be aiming for oscars, it is aiming to give viewers a good time.  But you do not have to be a brainless young girl to enjoy the movie.  If you like other teen movies you will probably like this one.  And britneys acting isn't that bad, no worse then some actors whose main thing is acting. "}{"Title":"Britney Shines","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads was an excellent film. Though the story was a bit trite in places, the script was original and refreshing. I believe Britney has great potential as an actress and should continue making films. I'd like to see her in more dramas. Zoe and Taryn were good counterparts and they are both stellar actresses. Surprisingly, Kim Catrall played a cold and unloving mother, but was convincing. I give the movie 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought....","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie Crossroads was better than I ever thought it would be. When I first walked in I thought I wasted my money to be honest. But since I was with friends I was out numbered and forced to see it. Surprisingly I liked it. I thought it was a very cute and funny movie. I even liked the issues that were talked about b/c every teenager can relate to them in some sort of way. I thought all of the actors(including Britney) gave one hell of a performance also. I would tell just about anyone to go see this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie ROXXXXXXXXXX","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  and so does Britney.... she's just amazing....this movie reveals a totally new face of Britney... you definetely have to see it Brit....you did a great job  "},{"Title":"the movie was great (only because Britney Spears was in it though","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hi there!I saw the new Britney Spears movie last night. As you may beleive or if you don't , the lot of the movie was one of those ones where your going from here to get somewhere. Well anyway to top it off, the movie was horrible. The only good thing about the movie I think was the fact that Britney Spears was in it. If Britney Spears wasn't in it I don't think that anyone would have gone to see it. Anyway also let's talk about Britney, her acting was ok but you could tell that she was either about to laugh or she was looking at someone that was offstage or so was doing somethin.Anyway if I had to give this movie a rating out of like 10 , I'd give it like a 5 or a 5.5 .  "},{"Title":"More fun than I could every have hoped for.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw Crossroads with a group of about 7 friends, all but one going as a joke. The theater was about 1/2 full and almost everybody in it was doing the same as we were, laughing and making snide comments.  EVERY part of this movie was great and i dont even regreat paying to see it, it was worth every penny.  As a serious movie, no, i hate it but as a fun flick to go see with some friends that are quick enough to make a worthwhile comment its priceless.  Oh, and Dan Aykroyd is AWSOME, not just here but in general. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was so good!!!!! It really showed off Britney's acting skill. I would see this movie 1,000,000 more times because Britney is the best. The movie was so funny and I know that TRUE fans of hers will love it, like I do.  Taryn, Zoe, and Anson were totally awesome in it. "},{"Title":"phenomenal","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It is so appropriate that this film came out right after the 2001 Oscars were nominated.  I know this elegant, intelligent film will be on the short list for 2002!  This is a new youth classic!  Wonderful! Fantastic! "},{"Title":"Britney was great","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Now everyone knows that this movie was centered on Britney Spears. It was just another thing to add to her resume, but I have been a fan of hers since I was eleven years old and I absolutely loved this movie. I was afraid that her acting would be terrible and that her career would go down the drain-even though she has been struggling some lately-but I really enjoyed it. When she cried, I totally bought it. When she laughed, I truly thought she was happy. Nothing seemed forced with her and acting seemed to come very naturally to the pop star. I only wish it didn't get so many bad reviews. I think most people didn't want to see it because the majority of the population (women) are jealous of her. But just watch closely, and you'll notice that even in places like Wal-Mart, you might see a girl who hates Britney with a passion pick up a magazine with her face on the cover. People are obsessed with her and there has to be a reason for it. They can say they hate her all they want but the truth is-they don't know her or who she really is and they want to so badly that it drives them mad. Think about it. What drives us all to buy the gossip about celebrities? Britney is gorgeous, talented in countless areas, and maybe one day people will appreciate all that she's brought to the world of entertainment. "},{"Title":"its ok....","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is Britney`s Spears debut skills although her acting skills are not great this movie is not bad.She and her 2 ex friends set out on a road trip and fulfill the dreams they made in a pact when they were 10.The movie was not bad but it could do better and In my opinion its just sort of like a film about Britney`s life i give it 7 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm almost embarrassed to admit that I just finished watching Crossroads. Now, before anyone calls the men in the white suits to come pick me up, I should add that I would have never watched it without the rifftrax commentary. The commentary turned what would have been an experience akin to visiting one of the seven layers of Hell into one of the funniest things I've ever sat through. Hysterical! The plot, not that it matters, involves recent high school graduate named Lucy (Britney Spears). Together with two other friends, they travel across country, each with a different goal for their trip. Along the way they discover the true meaning of friendship. (Did I just write that? What a load of crap!) I'm not sure who told Britney Spears she could act, but they should be drummed out of the entertainment industry post-haste. In a word, she's abysmal. Her co-stars don't fair much better, but with a script like this, anyone would look foolish. This thing is just wretched from the word Go. Crossroads is one painful experience. "}{"Title":"Fantabbydosy Film","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This film rocks my world! It is amazing...the well written script is fantastic and has you hooked the whole way through. Britney surprises me with her wonderful acting skills, she has really outdone herself this time! The soundtrack is sensational - a real 'pick-me-up' selection of songs. I am yet to meet anybody that has not LOVED this film. The leading male is gorgeous which is always a bonus!!!!! I thought however it was a shame not to have more of Lucy's father fighting car monsters in Louisiana. It's lovely to see Britney looking so beautiful, especially when she flashes us her dirties in her pink bra - a real treat! Hope you all enjoy and love the film as much as i do! Mark, you know you love it too! "},{"Title":"People always hate pop stars...people always hate pop stars...","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I don't...I don't! I think people should stop giving out 1s to these movies and start learning a lesson here! This movie and several other movies are 10 material! What other movies, do you, the jealous user, might ask? Oh, movies such as From Justin to Kelly, In The Mix, Glitter, Gigli, Daniel - Der Zauberer, Can't Stop The Music, and more! Much more! And this movie, best known as Crossroads, is another example! This is good stuff; nothing in this movie will put you to a painful sleep like when you get an IV before an operation! (The needle part is the painful part, BTW) Come on, guys! Watch this movie now! "},{"Title":"Britney Spears is God","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Yes, that's correct, folks, Britney Spears is God! And as for this wonderful movie, only God could have made something so perfect!!! Just the opening sequences alone, where She dances around the bedroom in Her underpants and sings into a cereal spoon is worth the price of admission, or rental, or purchase! It's obvious from some of the negative comments listed in this forum that many of the respondents can't handle God. Too bad! God is great, God is good! Britney rules the universe! Crossroads is the best movie EVER made! Have any of you noticed how many comment entries there are for this movie? There must be at least a billion of them! Yup, she managed to touch each and every one on you on some level or other. She touched a nerve that you prefer not to have touched, huh? That's what the great ones do. They cause you consternation and emotional upheaval! Deal with it... "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!!!","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The movie was great and so was Britney. It was funny, sad, and a parable. I loved this movie and think it is the best movie out there. People don't like it because the Pop Princess Britney Spears is in it. She did a wonderful job and everyone should buy the movie. I loved it. best movie ever, Britney did a wonderful job and was really impressed what she can do. good job Britney. this movie takes people through the true life inccidents we teenagers go through; sex, alcohol, and just getting through life. We want to explore ourselves and i believe Britney wanted to. So we should thank her and buy not only the movie but also her great albums. I love Britney and wish her the best in her career. Her show was great Britney and Kevin Chaotic you all should of watched it. LOVE Britney FOR LIFE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"I loved it its my favourite movie!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Crossroads is in my opinion, the best movie around, I've watched it at least 10 times and every minute of it i loved, I've memorized every line seriously and i can recite it off by heart! it is a movie about friendship and love, who would not like a movie like that? Britney Spears is now my favourite singer, despite all rumors about her. and also, Anson Mount is such a babe! all you girls out there got to agree with me! i think what makes it special is that they didn't stay best friends through the whole time, that makes it original, in most movies about friendship they stay friends forever but its not usually like that. To me, this movie is by far the best and if you haven't seen it, i sincerely suggest that you do so as soon as you can! "},{"Title":"Not Yet An Actor, Britney Shows Some Promise","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was good for Britney. If any REAL actors were to be in this film, their careers would plummet big time. The movie is quite unrealistic and Britney is seen dancing in her bra and panties within the first ten minutes of the film and then again at the prom!! The DVD specials were boring, so I just turned it off! Please, don't count on seeing Zoe Saldana, Taryn Manning and ESPECIALLY Britney in any movies soon. I didn't like it. I mean, who would take a road trip with two people they didn't like across the country? "},{"Title":"Why is this in the Bottom 100!!!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've seen around 15 of the Bottom 100 films according to us users of IMDB.. and around half of them, don't deserve to be in that list at all!! weak they are, but dire, no.. but this is one of my strongest candidates for removal. Now i ain't going to say Crossroads is some masterpiece, far from.. but it seems people are being much too cynical towards it, maybe they see it as simply being some marketing tool for Britney Spears. Sure she may sing two tracks from her album, and she ends up becoming a singer of sorts in the story, but that doesn't seem to be the prime focus or drive of the film, but if she didn't sing, then a lot of her real fans would have been very disappointed.And people who say Britney is an AWFUL Actress should really go see some more films. She performed her role as well as any debut actress could, in no way would i say she even comes close to being rated as poor, and neither did any of the proffesional critics think that either! Critics may be harsh with films, but they generally know their stuff about performances. I thought she did pretty well, and didn't seem to just play herself, though her debut role really should have been even less of her and more someone else, if she wanted to make a mark in the world of film. Mandy Moore seemed to make the right move in that respect.So the film, the story has no real inspiration or passion, it's very by the numbers, the 'twist' can be seen a thousand miles off, and at the end the movie is nothing more than a glossy TV Movie. But like most ok TV Movies, they pass the time quite well, just like this one.. sure it's pretty cheesy in places, but i can see a certain age group of girls really liking this film.. it's been very well made for them.I personally would have preffered Britney's debut film to have taken itself less seriously, and be more in vein with something like She's All That, something a bit more frothy that didn't try too hard at being all grown up and mature, with teenage pregnancies and runaway mothers. A huge proportion of people who are going to see a film like this and be the key flagposts in a strong word-of-mouth campaign would be slightly older teens.. and Britney it seems would have been perfect for a well made film like that. i.e Bring It On, many guys went to see it just for the girls in short skirts, but most of them went on to recommend it to friends, because it was completely unpretensious and totally enjoyable, while appealing to both sexes.. had they coupled that with seeing Britney in her underwear, then they would have had a sure-fire hit, and a much stronger rating here.This would probably sound less offensive if i was female, but her next film should be directed by a man.. no disrespect to Tamra Davis, i LOVE Billy Madison and Half-Baked, but when it comes to handling women on screen and their sexuality, no one does it better than a man.. look at what Hitchcock did for his leading ladies!!If you are wondering whether to watch this film, and are not really a fan of Britney, but just wanted to watch a teen movie, then i would personally recommend a few others before this one.. but i wouldn't completely disregard it. Non-Cynical movie goers will find it a good enough diversion for 90 minutes. As for Britney fans (like myself) i'd off course be curious to see it, but i'll always be disappointed that it wasn't as strong a debut for her film career as it should have been.. she has obvious screen presence, and i think with the right film, she could win a huge amount of new older fans... it's hard though as her real-life persona will always interefere with the audience's pre-conception when coming into the film. Hopefully her and her team of people will learn from the mistakes of this film, and think more realistically towards a long term movie career for her, rather than just catering the fickle youngters, who gave the film 1/10 because she didn't get naked or sing 'Baby One More Time'.  "},{"Title":"Hey, it's not that bad!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched the DVD last night and it's not that bad.  Essentially it's a vehicle to support Britney's songs, in much the same way early Elvis films were done, ie the cute lead actress just happens to be a good singer who saves the day for her friends, falls for the lead man and knocks 'em dead at the talent contest in the finale.  Ok, so you won't need a lot of brain cells to watch it, so just sit back, relax and enjoy it for what it is. Nothing stunningly original or complex ... but it works.I wouldn't say Britney's acting was good or bad, it looked to me like she was just being herself on-camera.Essentially the film does exactly what it set out to do, so don't complain! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was such an awesome movie. It had more than just BRITNEY SPEARS. I'm not a fan but that dosent matter. You have to look past the acting because this was such an incredible story. Forget about Britney I know shes not Oscar material but she wasn't all that bad. Great story. "},{"Title":"britney is actually rather surprising...","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i saw this movie opening weekend as a treat for a close friend. i don't generally follow the pop scene but i do like britney spears. though the film had its cheesy moments, britney was very surprising on her acting. if she developed it, she could take this talent to a higher level. the film has some pretty deep and adult situations for the young crowd that currently follows the britney scene, but its one of those stereotypical chick flick that stresses friendships, relationships and more. it almost reminds me of an over-dramatic coyote ugly in some aspects. a lot of people put the film down merely because of its association with britney, but hey, give it a chance, look part the pop idol aspects, and you may just like it. besides seems like its the in thing to despise britney, rather than like her.  "}{"Title":"Britney is very talented when it comes to acting!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think this movie rocked! Britney is da bomb and she is such a good actress! i hope she continues to make movies! This movie teaches young or old people about the meaning of friendship. It has no swearing except bitching and damn (if you count those words) "},{"Title":"A great movie to see with your (girl) friends!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads was really a coming of age story. At times predictable and corny, it was an overall good movie. Britney was good, and her friends played by Zoe Saldana and Taryn Manning were wonderful. It was perfect for those of us who miss the days of feel good musicals. "},{"Title":"Nice","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Well who ever who hates this movie maybe just hates Britney Spears badly. But personally i feel that it was a good chick flick movie with a nice story line.Well i like the way the story went where three young best friends end up not being so friendly when they graduate high school. They all wanted to fulfill their dreams and went on a road trip. Unexpectedly in the end, all their dreams didn't actually come true. But what they had with them by the end of the movie was a strong friendship.Any girl who had been in the same position as the 3 girls in the movie would definitely enjoy the movie. Hang out with your girlfriends on a car ride and just have a good time would definitely bring out past memories. All in all, friendship was questioned in the movie and the theme was nicely visualized in the movie. The acting of Mrs. Spears may not come that strong but i appreciate her for trying. She had the opportunity, she did it. And i am sure many also loved her for taking the opportunity to act. I hope that we don't just degrade a great movie just because a pop star acted as the main role.Tell me what You Think. Raj thelousyllama@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"Don't bash a girl for singing AND acting when she's as good as Brit!","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" What I'd like to know is why pop stars such as Mandy Moore and Jennifer Lopez are always being bashed when they act? Personally, I've noticed that some of these people impress me more as actors than singers. Aside from some of them, Britney is good at both. I enjoy her talent as a performer on stage and as an actress on the movie screen. In her first movie, Crossroads, her character's name is Lucy, a girl who accompanies her two girlfriends on a road trip and realizes the woman she is becoming at the same time. Althouth this movie has been bashed by many people, I feel it is an excellent movie for its genre. Too many people expect too much out of so called chick flicks and they are so quick to shoot them down, but take some time out and think about what's happening in the movie and the messages it is providing to its viewers. Two of the important themes in the movie are friendship, and growing up. What is so wrong about that? Does a movie always have to be a documentary or an action packed movie with elements of death and darkness in it to be considered good. Sometimes a cute little comedy or drama is very satisfactory. "},{"Title":"A Whole lot to say about this one.","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok-I have seen all the bad reviews on Crosssroads and will say right nowthis movie isn't exactly brain power at it's finest. Not only won't it ever win an academy award or be in the running but it managed to distinguish itself by making the imdb list of worst movies of all time. No easy feat!That said-I'm a person who likes all types of movies from The Hours to 'Chicago to Ocean's eleven. And sometimes I like lightweight movies too. I'm not saying Crossroads was a work of incredible genius that will live on in all our minds for years to come.... Not at all-but cmon-with all the BAD movies out there(and there are MANY)  I don't think this pic deserves to be in the pile of worst movies EVER.What Crossroads was, is a sweet, light little piece of popcorn fluff sweetness and light movie(but not terrible) that also happened to star Brittney Spears THAT was the problem.I think the worst thing about Crossroads wasn't Crossroads at all-it was the fact that spears played the lead role. I'm gonna be honest here and say it straight out-BRITTNEY SPEARS IS A POP SINGER!!   If she wants to be an actress fine but nobody could watch a movie like this and take it at all seriously. And all the Britney singing in the backround didn't help.I'm sure the creators of Crossroads could have done this movie without promoting Britney's singing as well-if Ms. Spears wants to be an actress AND a singer fine-but don't try to be both in the same movie. Then the movie begins to look less like a movie then a vehicle for Spears to sell her albums, thus earning her yet another few million- which essentially it was.Now that said-I have to admit if SOMEONE else had starred in this movie-lets say it was crossroads starring Winona Rider I don't think people would have killed on it as much. I mean let's face it the movie wasn't just given no respect, it became something of a joke.  I really don't think that's because of the movie itself but because of Spears. Her character was sweet but she was played by a POP SINGER-so that took away believability  to her performance-for her first role she should have chosen something edgier I think.But on the plus side-I saw this with a few girlfriends and yes it really DID make me think girl power and make me  want to hug my friends afterward. And I want to stress I'm not under 18 nor have I ever bought or been tempted to buy anything by Brittney Spears in my life.  Plus as light movies go there have actually been alot worse.What turned me off most about this little buttercup of a movie was all the hype(as if we don't get enough) on Spears itself. This seemed less a movie then a work of vanity. If Spears wanst to prove herself as an actress she needs to make the audience forget she's a pop idol. And that just didn't happen.But the movie doesn't deserve to be cut down that much-like I said if Kate Hudson or Winona Rider had starred I don't think the movie would have garnered so much negative attention, though of coarse it'll never be exactly a classic.  "},{"Title":"Ok, It wasn't as Bad as Glitter..","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First of all, I am a HUGE Britney fan. And this movie doesn't change my views on her. I went into the movie expecting not to see Forrest Gump or Gone with the Wind, but I was expecting to see Britney.Ok, so she is a dancer and an singer, not Judi Dench. She had fun, laughed, wore some freakin' cute outfits, got to be in a movie ( Did you do that? ) Yes, there was some lines in the film that could have been cut, and yes even some scenes. But it is, what it is.Now, Crossroads or Glitter. Crossroads, Glitter actually tried to take itself seriously. Crossroads doesn't. "},{"Title":"It was a good film..... for a singer","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  it was a good film for a singer i think.... she`s just an new actress... and we can`t say that Britney did not act well in this movie... it`s the first movie of her.... so Britney GO ALONG to the Oscar... and our hoping you`ll be a great actress for all time! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people claim...","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I think the main reason that people don't like this movie is the fact that Britney Spears is in it. But honestly, that is a very stupid reason for not liking a movie. My expectations were not up there when I started watching it, but as the film progressed, I actually enjoyed myself. I was also surprised by the fact that Britney Spears' performance was that good. She IS a better singer than an actress, but I've seen many performances of so-called good actors and actresses that was far worse than Britney's. The story is not the best on earth, but the audience it was meant for, love such stories (i.e. teenagers). I actually think the movie has some touching moments, and to you who voted 1 for this one; I think very many of you actually should see the movie before you rate it so badly. It is unrealistic that almost 50% of the viewers have given it a 1. A great deal of them have NEVER seen the movie and rate it 1 just because they hate Britney. That is not fair... I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"real Britney fan tells you the truth.","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" If you're a Britney fan, you will love the fact that our Bitch stars the movie. If you're a real part of the Britney Army, you will know the truth. First of all, the movie is cute. It has a different kind of basic and predictable plot. However, the big climax scene can take your breath away. Second, Britney Jean Spears was not the greatest actress in 2002. In her videos, mainly on her latest, she shows a big change from the girl she was ten years ago. She may not be the best actress, but she's not the biggest mistake in the movie. Third, and the biggest error, the movie lacks... time. Yes. For what I remember, the plot takes time in a road trip across USA - OK, those movies are funny. But once they decide Britney will be the lead singer on the audition, the time goes quicker. The moment when she learns the tune to Not a girl, not yet a woman must be the greatest mistake on the movie. Still, despite the not-so-brilliant acting skill from Britney, the movie is pretty watchable. And it's pretty entertaining (even though you know from the start she's ending up with the bad guy). Fourth, Britney is a make money machine since she started her career. As a fan who loves her to death, I can admit that she's not the talentest singer out there. She has no lack of talent. What she has is an awful team behind her actions. She's like a doll in her hands. Believe me when I say she needs no auto-tune or to sing about dance clubs to sell music - Everytime, Not A girl, not yet a woman, Don't let me be the last to know, He about to lose me, or even the unreleased Everyday and Strangest Love are proofs of that. But her team musn't think that way, because they use auto-tune on her and... did this movie. Yes, this movie is a way of earning money thanks to Britney, because every fan of Britney will love this. I give 7 out of 10 to the movie, but only because I love the Princess of Pop. "},{"Title":"This is what Sunday afternoons are all about.","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I just sat down and opened a beer when crossroads started on the TV. Most defiantly not a cinematic masterpiece by any means but I was kept entertained. The acting wasn't great, the storyline was oh so cliché and the music was typical but the movie served it's purpose and served it well.I've just been informed that I need 10 lines to submit a comment but I just can't say any more about this movie. I appreciate it for what it is but would not recommend it to anybody. As for Britney, she is a talented individual but not much of an actress. There's defiantly room for improvement and I'm sure if she ever makes the transition from singer to actress, she'd do well eventually. "}{"Title":"What did you expect?","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Okay, I gave it a 5. It obviously does not deserve a 5 for is it a good movie. It sucks, the plot, the outline, the point, the whole thing is totally predictable. It's cliché and the acting isn't great. With that said, i gave it a 5 because it's cute. I love watching this movie every so often when I want something simple, not to dramatic, not too romantic, not too anything but it's a nice little diversion and awake daydream type of feeling movie. I don't think Brit's acting was that bad. I've seen bad, hers was fine, not Oscar worthy but not bad, as a side note to all that say she can't sing, just b/c you don't like her singing doesn't mean she can't, her problem is that she lets her songs use too many synthesizers and crap. Heck Madonna can't sing, she really can't she got by on image alone, most anybody would tell you that. Yes the movie had a lot of cheesy moments but I liked that. I liked the idea of the girls re-bonding, the romance with the guy, I do think the whole pregnant, underage drinking thing was pointless. I realize they were trying to get some depth in there but please...look at the movie, why try to add depth to something that obviously is in no way going to pull it off they way it was intended. What did you expect? It is Britney Spears first movie, did you think it was going to be a blockbuster? How ofter does that happen? It's a teeny bopper/chick flick and I like it for that. "},{"Title":"It wasn't THAT bad...","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm giving this movie a 5 because it wasn't as bad as everyone said it was. No, none of the acting is very good, and the story seemed like it had been used a thousand times before. But I wasn't bored while watching it (on a plane) and the other movies on the flight (win a date with tad Hamilton) were much worse. I don't think this movie deserves the rating it got. No, it was definitely not a good movie, but to give it 3 stars is definitely not fair. Yeah, the ending part where the mom just says 'i never wanted you' made me go 'wha?' but for a movie that has Britney spears in it and doesn't look like it was made on a high budget, it wasn't TERRIBLE. "},{"Title":"Crossroads - not as bad as one would think","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I enjoyed this movie, and would encourage anyone who is a fan of Britney Spears, or teenage drama to watch it. Of course the script writing was not phenomenal and the acting was satisfactory; but still a cute little movie about three teenagers girls Lucy, Mimi and Kit who go on a road trip with Ben, a guy they just met to Los Angelas for a singing audition. The three girls are best friends from childhood who had grown apart, but end up rekindling their friendship through the troubles they surpass during the road trip their car breaks down, and they end up putting on a singing show at a local club to raise money to have it fixed. Lucy makes a stop in Arizona to meet her estranged mother, who she hasn't seen in 15 years because she had walked out on her and her father. Mimi is also pregnant with the baby of Kit's fiancé, who had raped her in the backseat of his car (which of course Kit is unaware of.) Through conquering their own set of problems, the girls become reunited and close again, and, Ben ends up falling in love with Lucy. The only thing I can say bothered me the most about Crossroads was that Britney Spears (Lucy) was by far the best character of the three girls. She was the most successful, innocent, intelligent, and prettiest; also of course she is the one to save the day, and gets the cute guy in the end. Did Britney Spears help direct this movie? Because it sure seemed like it. Although it was largely one sided in this sense, the movie is still worth seeing if you're a fan of Britney Spears. "},{"Title":"Warm hearted and fun","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Britney Spears' debut film is a curious blend of a cheesy chick flick and a John Hughes coming of age high school film. The plot is simple, three childhood friends, that have grown apart, reunite on prom night to go on a road trip. Pregnant trailer trash Mimi (Manning) is the driving force behind the escapade, as she wants to break out of her small town life by entering a singing contest. Popular rich girl Kat (Saldana) intends to pay a surprise visit to her older, college going Fiancé, and A student Lucy (Spears) is in search of the mother that abandoned her. Possible murderer Ben (Mount) spices things up as the duty driver whose masculinity hilariously deteriorates in the midst of continual girl talk. Very soon he allows the girls control of the car stereo and is happily singing along with them.This is laughably corny in parts, shallow and often cringe-worthy. The directing is, at times, heavy handed, especially with the blue beer bottle scene. However all the performances are solid, with Spears being particularly charismatic on screen. Dan Aykroyd and Kim Cattrall deliver superb performances in supporting roles that give the film some added credibility. Obviously this is firmly aimed at young teenage girls and Britney Fans. It is a PG certificate and should perhaps be thought of as a children's film, as the clichéd dialogue and lack of depth means there is little to engage adults. There is an abundance of opportunities for Britney to sing, as well as to show off her perfectly tanned and toned body. The early pink underwear scene is worth the price of the ticket alone.It seems as though there has not been such a warm hearted, yet naive and stereotypical teen film like this for quite some time. This is almost like a breath of fresh air, and has the feel of an 80's John Cusack or Hughes film (though not as good). It is blatantly predictable and sometimes wanders into the so bad it's good territory, but its warm and well meaning, and reminds us that being a teenager wasn't so bad. A great film to watch with your girlfriend, as long as she understands she will have to watch Dog Soldiers with you as pay back. "},{"Title":"predictable but effortless","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I not going to pretend this film is a great piece of cinematography but its OK. I guessed the entire plot line within the first five minutes, but lets face it most films are predictable. This film is exactly what it says it is, a teen chick flick with a cheesy soundtrack. But i personally actually enjoyed it, there's the ever so gorgeous lead man, you can have a laugh at the interesting acting, and it kills an evening and you can fall asleep in the middle, wake up and you'll still be able to follow the story.Not good but decent enough, ideal for a sleepover where u can dance about, drool, and poke fun! "},{"Title":"Karaoke-scene","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  It's been a while since I saw this movie, but the one thing i DO rememeber though, is the karaoke-scene! I thought it was, to be honest, emberassing!! I mean, you find better acting in those long commercials run on TV-shop, where the entire audience gasp when they show up the amazing products!!One word to sum up this movie predictable!It's a shame that the guy from Ghost Busters appeared in this awful movie (can't remember his name, Dan Aky...something), I always rated him a great actor. /Jokke "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you may think","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  You know it seems as though its rather fashionable to pick on Miss B and her talents. But if you stop to think about it, its really rather silly.Crossroads wasn't ground breaking by any means. But it wasn't absolutly terrible either.It was good entertainment and my friends and I enjoyed it. And I guess thats all that really matters. "},{"Title":"calm down everyone","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"      Everyone automatically assumes that Crossroads, since it stars Britney Spears is a piece of trash film. Albeit, the film is very contrived, stunted and nothing more than vehicle to promote Spear's songs, I've seen much worse.     It is certainly a movie I will never attempt to watch again, but I think most of the reviewers of this movie are focusing too much on the fact that the main character is played by Britney, and not that Britney is trying to portray a character- who cares if Britney Spears is a virgin or not? She's playing a character who is one. If you can make this connection with other actresses, how is Spears any different. I am in no way a supporter of pop music or of anything Britney Spears is involved with, but I'll leave her personality out of my judgement of the movie as a whole.Cutesy, teen flick that needs plenty of rewriting, re-casting and editing. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing great, but not THAT bad","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I first heard of this Britney Spears vehicle, I cringed.  Oh, great another vanity project.  Then I heard it was honored the non-coveted Golden Rasberry award as worst movie of the year.  But my wife wanted to watch it, so I did.Was it really all that awful?  No, it wasn't.  Not that it was particularly good, either.  But worst movie of the year?  Nah.  Just an easy way to bash Spears, who actually isn't too bad in her debut role.  There's perhaps one too many sing-a-longs in the car to showcase her voice, but, for the most part, this is an inoffensive, if not largely forgettable time waster.  Let's not forget that it's aimed at teenagers as well.CROSSROADS isn't going to win any Oscars.  But it was watchable enough.  It owes as much to Lana Turner/Douglas Sirk schlockfests as to its teen flick peers, with a suplot involving a miscarraige and a rape thrown in for added melodrama.  There's even a brief but surprisingly frank scene between Spears and Kim Cattrall as her estranged mother.If this comes on and you have absolutely nothing else to do or watch, check it out.  At the very least, you get plenty of looks at Spears spectacular buns. "},{"Title":"Give Britney a break...it wasn't bad!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, so this movie isn't going to win any awards, but it was good for what it was. They story was fine and made sense.  I could have done without the lame references to Britney's real life songs and some of the singing seemed like overkill, but the rest of the movie was perfectly alright.People condemned this movie before they even saw it because they saw Britney Spears' name in the cast list.  Give it a chance, because it wasn't as horrible as everyone says.   "}{"Title":"This movie wasn't horrible, but it wasn't great either...","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have to be honest. I wanted to see this movie mainly because I am a big fan of Britney Spears. But I think Britney Spears should stick to singing. The movie had a great plot but some pretty bad acting. It was mainly Britney Spears that couldn't act. I enjoyed this movie at some parts. I don't really recommend this movie. I mean, it's your choice if you want to see it. C- "},{"Title":"Simply Bad.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This story lacks any meaning or logic. They probably though that Britany spears jumping around in her underwear was enough to grab everyone's attention. Well, for some it did, and it turned out to be a complete dissapointment. Britany's acting, while not terrible, is just annoying to see. She looks more fake then her breasts. Other than that, this movie lacked a good script or any actual plot. It was just a cheap chick flick which simply did not deliver. (4/10) "},{"Title":"If not for...","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  If not for Miss Spears looking hot in the skimpy underwear in one scene, the rating would be lower.   That one scene was worth the viewing.  Luckily, it comes toward the beginning of the movie.  LOLOtherwise, a good movie only for the teenage girl audience.  "},{"Title":"I really like Britney, but...","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although I was a big fan of Britney (not her music!), this is a pretty poor movie, after 15 mins I was looking to see how long was left (about 80 if you are wondering).Nothing especially strikes me as being really poor, it's just the whole package.  The cheese/cringe factor is very high, but then again what can you expect for a road/coming of age movie with Britney Spears?Still, Britney looks lovely in it, and I think that seems to be the point...2-5/10 "},{"Title":"Well.....","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i was quite anxious to see this film and find out what Britney was made of - i must say she didnt excel my expectations but she didnt shock me with the cheesiness either. Yes this film is typical, cheesy and can be down right boring but hey it is a PG! I dont believe the chemistry between Britney and her love intrest but what i did like about the film was the friendship between the girls and how they had it lost it and found it again. Perfect for a night in on your own "},{"Title":"touching, enjoyable, good first effort, above average 7 out of 10!","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  okey, i am not a britney spears fan coz i am of middle age. but britney's music tunes are really good and refreshing so i do listen to them when i have the opportunity. now on with the movie itself, above the appearant faults of this movie, i found myself enjoyed it and be touched. i think it comes from the right message this movie trying to deliver and the plot is convincely developed, including the rivalry with fellow pact girls, the love that build up on the road,  coping with broken family, everything has an authentic feeling, it is what high school teens are concerned about.  you can also feel that britney is seriously about this film making and has made good effort on it. also the supporting cast are all well devoted, although sometimes childish, but after all, this is a teen movie. they did that on purpose. that said, the movie itself well deserve a 6 out of 10 score. i 'd like to give one extra score for britney spear for her first movie, which is already above the average. i expect to see more britney spears. she has good promise to be a super-star. and i think britney has become more lovely to me because she has souls on top of body. "},{"Title":"decent movie with decent story","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First and foremost, I am not a teenage female but a male college student so I didn't particularly expect much out of this movie, I just happened to watch it when my brother rented it (since he thought the star was attractive) and I wanted to see how bad it was. I expected a movie on par with Plan 9 - my expectations were low. Turns out its not that bad of a movie. The scripting is highly competent, though fairly unoriginal and linear and less sappy than expected. The acting is, for the most part, good, and the production values high. It reminded me of Varsity Blues if it had a more female-oriented cast and slant. Quite cleverly the scriptwriters write a character that is an aspiring singer so Ms. Spears doesn't have to stretch to far (though she actually isn't that bad) when she acts sort of in the same manner Hulk Hogan played himself/a wrestler in every movie. Wouldn't buy it, but it's worth a rent if you want a tolerable date movie or if you don't feel like watching anything too thought-provoking. "},{"Title":"Britney Sucks But The Movie Doesn't","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When Lucy(Britney Spears), Kit(Zoe Saldana) and Mimi(Taryn Manning) were young, they made a pact that they would always be best friends forever and they buried a box and made a wish. They also promised that they would come back after they graduate and undig that box. Now that time has come but what a shame, Lucy, Kit and Mimi aren't best friends anymore. Lucy is the shy virgin next door who likes to dance around in her underwear in front of her dad, Kit is a snobby popular girl who was supposedly fat once but now looks like a skeleton and then there is Mimi, the pregnant girl who doesn't know who the baby's father is. Can a roadtrip now help save their friendship? I bet you know the answer for that. It's not that i didn't like this movie, it's a very cute chick flick but it really doesn't have that much to offer. But anyways, it's a nice movie about growing up and friendship. Britney Spears of course cannot act at all, i had to cringe at some parts because she was so goddamn bad. They should have cast someone else to play the shy virgin Lucy because Britney did not look the part. The only person i really liked was Taryn Manning, she is a great young actress with a bright future ahead of her. Zoe Saldana was also pretty good, but like I said Britney sucked badly. The moral that she gave in this movie was don't sleep with someone that you've known your whole life but just go lose your virginity to some guy you've just met Anyways, I would give Crossroads 6/10 "},{"Title":"Mediocre, but watchable and unfairly rated","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just wanna point out that this is a mediocre but unfairly rated film.granted, this is a without doubt, a Britney vehicle.however, it's watchable, decent, and definitely doesn't deserve it's rating of 3.1 and it's position at 44 of the 100 bottom (worst rated) movies as of Feb 2003it is a road/growing up movie, and as it is, is not significantly better or worse than most others.it even tries to throw in a few serious issues, like date rape, unwanted pregnancy, and obviously doesn't carry it off as well as it could have.so i encourage you to do the rating system some credit. if you've watched it, and agree with me, vote, and hopefully pull the ratings up to a more moderate 4-5, which is probably what the film more accurately deserves. "},{"Title":"God bless your soul Britney.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsAh,Britney Spears.It's not just her prettyness and pert sexyness that attracts amourous attention from fancying boys......but her general,down-to-earth sweetness and lovelyness.I,for one,hope her recent descent into post-adolescent drinking and swearing mellows and she is able to accept herself for the great person that she is......just my thoughts,of course.If it wasn't for her,why would a guy like me watch a film like Crossroads?Why exactly.I'm a sucker for my dream girl,so I was willing to sit through a movie of hers,even though it is not the type of movie I would usually give a second glance.But I will review it fairly.It has weak,unoriginal dialogue and it is generally full of cliches.It does,however,have decent performances and it will appeal to it's target audience.** "}{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone makes out","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I watched this film, its a little sugary sweet, but its nothing as bad as what everyone has rated it. Its a little predictable, and a little over-moralistic (is that a word??!) but not a cautionary tale like the ratings would have you believe. Plus its got Britney in it wearing underwear and nothing other than a towel!! "},{"Title":"not bad but not good either","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  well, i'm not a fan of brittney, but i must say, this movie isn't the piece of crap people say it is. it isn't one of my favorites but it certainly isn't TERRIBLE. brittney plays lucy, the quiet, innocent, unpopular smart girl. she was friends with two other girls but over the years, the girls' friendship fades. kit becomes the popular-every guys' dream. mimi becomes labeled the out cast slut merely because she is raped but the guy spreads rumors about her. all three of the girls meet after the prom and do the ritual they planned when they were just girls. they all decide to go on a roadtrip and they become friends again. it isn't an oscar worthy movie but it has a hidden lesson. i reccomend this if you're a devoted brittney fan. 5 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Britney's first movie","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Well I thought this was a great movie.Truly touched me in ways I did not expect Britney could touch me.In the end I was even singing along with Britney.There is so much to be learned from this movie..f.e. to always follow your heart,don't get drunk (you might end up with a baby), it's okay to have doubts about your life and friends are the most important thing in life.Now it's not all positive though.First of all the movie sucked, but to be honest not nearly as much as expected.And for the audience coming to see it; it even should be quite nice.The music was better than I expected.Someone accidently put a song of Travis in the movie, well I praise that person.For all Britney fans I can say this Go watch it again!!For all humans forget this movie or first get very drunk than it's okay.Out of five stars I will give it...hmm let me see 1 and a half,the 1/2 for the Travis song. "},{"Title":"it is not bad at all","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First of all, you don't have to be a britney fan to enjoy that if, and only if, you like this kind of movies. Britney's acting is alright, Zoe Saldana is as always pretty solid and Taryn is absolutelly fantastic. As for Anson, he is not bad especially in such girl dominated environment.It might not be the most entertaining film of its kind but that's mostly to do with the fact that it tryies to convey something to its audience. The problems it presents might have been too serious to stomach in such quantities but at least they didn't expect you to listen to 90 min of girls discussing clothes and their popularity. All in all it is worth watching if you like coming of age stories and pop music. By the way, the soundtrack fitts well with the mood of the story and the DVD extras are ok.  "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Don't get me wrong--usually I loathe Brittney Spears, but this movie was better  than I expected. Sure, there were some stupid parts, but if you just take them  with a pinch of salt, they're really funny... Though I would recommend  fast forwarding the movie at the end, when they sing. All in all, a pretty average movie. "},{"Title":"how cute!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i know that many people do not like this film but i still asked for it for my 18th birthday anyway because i'm a fan of britney (ok you can stop laughing now!)i thought that the film was actually ok.  the storyline was cool because it dealt with issues that teens deal with so we can relate to it.  britney's acting was ok in this film.  many of my friends laughed at her but i really thought she did ok, or maybe i'm just biased?!overall i give the film abaout 6 out of 10.  what let it down was the ending. i really felt they could have ended it in another way.  but i reccomend it to people who are having a girly night in.  "},{"Title":"Mush that should leave an after taste","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads when not over analized is an enjoyable film, filled with plenty of nubile young things and a sound track that bounces happily along. Of course if you were to analize this film, you could possibly find it to be a contrived teen film with very little to gel it together.Although the cynic in me is dying to jump on the 'Lets slate Brittney' band wagon, I am afraid her acting debute was ok. Brittney is not predominately an actress and I have to say that in the teen genre I have seen a hell of a lot worse.The film perhaps had it taken just one of the many 'Teen Problem' storylines and ran with that, instead of trying to cram five or six into the film, may have had more time to develop the characters and the relationships that evolve between them. As it were the 'amazing bond' which was suddenly brought back to life between the three main characters on the road trip happened too quickly to be believable. One moment they were full of contempt for one another and then after a snappy little number on the Kareokee, they're best friends forever.However, the film was actually, if you didn't let the little things p*** you off, very watchable. The actor who plays the part of Ben was very attractive and I quite enjoyed the performance of the character of Mimi. So on superficial note, go and watch by all means. "},{"Title":"As substantial as one of Britney's records, but alas not as much fun. (That's not to say I'm slating it, mind.)","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Note Teeny spoilers herein.The title of the movie is clearly cursed - having already given itself to a notoriously bad UK soap opera, a box-office and critical disappointment in 1986, and one of Robert Urich's least popular series, Crossroads now attaches itself to Britney Spears's first stab at the silver screen. In no way a great movie, or even to be honest a good one, this is still endurable... though fans of the chirpy one have a head start.A vehicle for the modern-day Annette Funicello all the way, the movie has her and her two closest friends (Taryn Manning and Zoe Saldana, both of whom are, if you'll pardon the expression, Stronger in the acting department - but then again who's seeing this for the acting?) meeting up after graduation from high school and, with a new male acquaintance of one of the girls as chauffeur, heading from Georgia to California - Miss Manning to enter an open audition for a record company, Miss Saldana to see her fiance, and sweet little Britney to drop in on her mum in Arizona. Cue for much bonding, quarrelling and the odd song as they head out on the highway, looking for adventure and whatever comes their way...Which dramatically isn't that much, thanks to Sondra Rhimes's script; most of the major moments are thrown away (the most tragic moment on the journey doesn't carry the weight it should, and when Britney's character does meet her mother - Kim Cattrall, not the most plausible partner for Dan Aykroyd as our heroine's dad - it just doesn't work) and it all seems to be building up to the moments when the golden girl gets to do her thing, a theory underlined by the poetry she writes en route, which turns out to be the lyric for I'm Not A Girl, Not Yet A Woman. While I like the record, it's impossible not to find that laughable.SPOILER ALERT... SPOILER ALERT... SPOILER ALERT...Plus, she actually sings it at the most elaborate audition in history (do aspiring singers really get to try out for record labels in front of a packed audience? Even the dancers in the boring movie version of A Chorus Line played out their stuff to the director and the director alone). And it must be said that her formerly pregnant friend gets over the loss of her unborn child in an accident really quickly.SPOILER ALERT OVER... SPOILER ALERT OVER... SPOILER ALERT OVER...That's to be expected when a pop star has the lead in a film produced by her record company, however... though give them props for surprisingly not issuing a soundtrack album (perhaps because La Spears only has three songs - the aforementioned ditty, her karaoke take on I Love Rock'N'Roll, and Overprotected which she does over the end credits, complete with liveaction footage of her so doing intercut with outtakes from the movie - and most of Trevor Jones's score is unremarkable. Then again, who wouldn't want to find the words Britney Spears and the London Symphony Orchestra performing the score on the same CD?).Crossroads is shallow soft-centred stuff all the way, with our heroine sometimes surprisingly unflatteringly shot - you wonder if Christina Aguilera, Pink, Kelly Osbourne, Sheryl Crow and other female singers who've had a go at her of late served as uncredited executive producers - but it never pretends to be anything more than it is, it's not as weakly made as Mariah Carey's Glitter, and Britney is more endearing and less excruciating an actress than Madonna. In the end it's not really much of anything, and I say that as a fan of hers, but it's still okay if she was Born To Make You Happy ... and fans of Kylie Minogue (another singer who's ticked off Britney of late) might like to note that this is remarkably less crappy than Street Fighter or Neighbours.Plus I think I can safely say that a lot of Britney's male fans have given the pause and frame-by-frame capabilities on their videos/DVD players a good workout due to the first fifteen minutes. "},{"Title":"A Little Beauty!!!!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  You have to watch a lot of crap, to find a gem, and this is a gem. I thought the movie was fantastic, Britney did a fine job in this movie, and i enjoyed it heaps. Her love interest, what a hunk, but besides him, i really liked the relationship, the 3 girls shared, and it was just a feel good movie, and for Britney's first time in a movie, she was bloody dammn good. Don't beleive the worst, give this movie a go. "},{"Title":"shocked and impressed...","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am not a huge fan of Britney Spears. I don't think she is a very good example to her target audience (i.e. 10-14 year olds). But I really think she did a good job in this movie. Yeah, there were a lot of cliches, but there were also some very intense scenes that most girls can identify with. Plus, we got to see a more innocent side of Britney that is reminiscent of her days on the Mickey Mouse Club. And if you don't agree with that, the dimples on the guy were enough to keep a girl glued to the screen! I think she should keep up the acting career. "}{"Title":"This is a must buy movie.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I knew I would like this movie because I am always a fan of teenage/college themed movies.  My husband usually cringes when I rent one of these movies and bring it home, but we both thoroughly enjoyed it.  We both laughed out loud (a rarity), and I cried a few times.  Very good storyline, very good music, very good casting, very good actresses and actors.  Not to mention my favorite performer-Brittney.  She did a hell of a job for her first film. I will definitely purchase the DVD next time I go to the store.  "},{"Title":"such a cute movie","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have to tell you, I recently rented this movie with a friend and was certainly not expecting much. Actually, I expected it to be a movie filled with bad acting and a stupid plot. But throughout the whole movie, I absolutely loved it. Britney Spears did a great job as Lucy, I pretty much forgot she was Britney Spears while watching the movie. It's too bad not many people will be able to see past Britney and see this movie for what it is - yes it is a chick flick, but it is also one of the cutest feel good movies I've seen in a long time. It is certainly a movie I can relate to and I will recommend this to any teenage girl who's ever planned a road trip with her best friends, or who's ever grown apart from close childhood friendships. It is a movie I truly enjoyed watching.  "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but not great either.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First of all, I just have to say that Britney Spears is a dream woman!  I don't care what anyone says, I think she is one of the most beautiful, sexiest women I've ever seen, and seeing her in her undies was worth the entire movie.  Ok, with that said, I can continue with the review.The story in this film is nothing original, it's been done time and time again, so don't expect anything new and original here.  This is just a simple vehicle to get Britney on the big screen.  But, despite being a non-original story, it's still fairly good, and has some good stuff to it.The my surprise, Britney is a much better actress than I expected.  She did a very good job and I gotta giver her some credit.  The other cast members did a fine job as well.  Dan Akyroyd was a nice touch in the film, he did a great job playing Lucy's father and I was glad to see him in the film.  Kim Cattrall was also another good touch, she did a fine job with what little screen time she had.  The highlight of the film for me was Justin Long (from TV's ED) he is such a COOL actor and I'm always happy to see him in a film (and he got to KISS BRITNEY SPEARS!!!!!!!!!!!).  Anyhow, he was very good in his role, despite also having very little screen time.Ok...so, I've mentioned all the good things in the film...now here is what I didn't like...POTENTIAL SPOILERS AHEAD!Why is it that she couldn't have sex with her friend/boyfriend Henry (Justin Long) who she's known been buddies with for more than 3 years, is a completely sweet and honest guy, but CAN have sex with this guy Ben (Anson Mount), who she's only known for a week or two?  I guess I'm just rooting for the little guy, I'm sick of seeing the pretty-boy nice guy get the girl!  I want the good hearted nice guy to get the girl.  Oh well, I guess you can't win them all.END OF SPOILERSAll in all, I thought the movie was pretty good and was a fairly interesting story.  I wouldn't recommend this to everyone, but if you like Britney Spears, then give it a shot, don't have too high of expectations though.  Hope you enjoy the film, thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"Great movie with a teen side","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I thought it was a great movie and it can relate to most teenagers out there who lost a friend but gained them back. I will say Britney needed a little more acting lessons but she wasnt that bad and she did really good with Anson. "},{"Title":"better than i thought","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have to admit I didn't have a lot of hope for this movie.  In fact, I didn't even watch it until my daughter bought it on DVD.  I was pleasantly surprised.  It's a light, fun, chick-flick for teens, and I was most impressed with the fact that Britney played such a simple girl.  I expected it to be filled with her I'm a star, look at me! status, but it wasn't.Overall, I thought it was a good movie.  And I'm a 39 year old mom! "},{"Title":"You have got to be kidding me!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I will admit, I was touched by this movie. I assumed that it would just be a piece of crap, but it wasn't. The overall theme of how true friendship lasts forever made me think of my best friend Toya and how we've been best friends since we were eight (we're 21 now.) Some of the scenes drew a tear to my eye. That was mostly from the acting of Zoe Saldana and Taryn Manning (who really deserved more screen time and shouldn't have been stuck in Britney's shadow). I'm sorry to say that I still feel that Britney Spears can't act.It was so obvious that the point of this film was a mere extension Britney's pop star fame. Britney-endorsed products (such as Pepsi and Herbal Essences) were flaunted about shamelessly. And let's not forget that most of the songs in the movie belong to Britney or other pop star acts (*cough* Nsync *cough*). This movie is self-advertisement at its worst. Also, Britney's portrayal of a virginal girl desperately trying to grow into a woman was pathetic. It's the same song and dance she's been trying to give us for the past 3 years and frankly, I'm tired of it. This movie was almost as scary as Mariah Carey's sad attempt at acting. I totally expected this to be a well-oiled Britney machine and it was. She claims the movie was supposed to be an ensemble piece, but for some strange and mysterious reason, Britney's character Lucy seems to be the center of attention.I'm sorry, but of all the pop stars breaking into acting lately (Britney, the aforementioned Mariah, Lance Bass, etc.), Mandy Moore seems to be the only one with any staying power. That girl acted her butt off in A Walk to Remember and can do so much better than Britney. If Britney plans on making anymore movies, I sure hope she has the cash to produce them, because it would be tantamount to disaster for a studio to back anymore of her films.  "},{"Title":"I'm glad this movie was made.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was a great movie!!!  The message it gave me was to enjoy the times you have with your friends.  The actors were great, too.  There's not much for me to say except if you haven't seen this movie, see it.  The plot itself was good except for the ending.  It's a little too predictable.  But still, a great movie.  "},{"Title":"Not THAT Bad","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although the story was lucid, Anson Mount was intolerable, and the direction was possibly worse than Stuart Little (if that is even possible), The three female leads put on a better than expected performance. Actually Zoe Saldena was very good,compared toi the rest. This movie was not as horrible as was anticipated. "},{"Title":"Not exactly what I expected","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'll admit that when I picked up the DVD, I didn't expect much from the movie, but I was wrong.  While the movie was predictable I thought it was also pretty well made.  It takes the viewer away from everyday life into a world where it seems that almost anything can happen.  I am not a fan of Britney's, but I thought that she did a good job in the movie.  I say rent it and give it a chance, you might just like it.  Worst case, you don't like it and you spent $1.99 and an hour and a half of your time. "},{"Title":"It was good","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Alot of people said that it was going to be bad because britney was there. But I thought it was good. People thinking it is bad are jealous. Just because they arent as pretty as britney or famous. So if you thought it was bad then you must be jealous. "}{"Title":"give the girl a break !","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have just been reading some of the other comments on this page, some of you (spoilers) should give the girl a break! Keep in mind that this is her first movie and she did her best. She tried something new, is that so bad? Yes, the underwear parts were unneeded and you could have guessed that there were going to be parts were she sang, she is a pop star remember. It makes me wonder why a lot of the people that wrote terrible things even went and saw the movie if you hated Britney in the first place. There is no excuse, you didn't have to go with a friend or go just to make fun. If you did you are a very wasteful person. The movie wasn't that bad, it doesn't deserve an Oscar or anything but overall it was a movie based on some real issues people have to deal with. I'm not a big Britney fan but I give her credit to have enough courage to make a movie then have to deal with all the cynical people in the world.P.S. I did find it funny that she said he's just a guy that gave me a ride.  "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought Britney's acting was okay. I only recall one instance that she had trouble with her lines, and that was when her father came to the motel to take her home. But overall, I had fun watching this. Great music, nice scenic cross-country driving, and girls partying! My favorite part though is when Britney was dancing on her bed to Madonna's Open Your Heart To Me. But I'm a guy, and I fell that this is the type of movie guys will enjoy more than girls. Another thing I liked about the movie was that it dealt with real-life situations, though immoral as they may be.For those who haven't seen this, it appears to be a cross between Coyote Ugly and Duets. If you like any of these, then you will probably like Crossroads.  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought it would be.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I had expected a bad movie, especially since Britney starred in it. What I got instead was an entertaining 90 minutes, sometimes funny, sometimes sad. Of course it was predictable, it's a teen flick, but for Britney's first time out, she didn't do a half bad job. "},{"Title":"I thought it wasn't that bad.","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't see why everyone is hatin. I thought that Crossroads was a good movie. I might admit that sometimes it was kinda lame, but that was the fun part. I thought the story line was aight, but my friends and I could relate to some of it. I had fun watchin a love life blossom and catfights. Basically, it's a straight up chick flick. Which is good, cause now you know what to rent when your buds sleep over. "},{"Title":"After seeing the movie, I must say it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be.","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I must say, I had my doubts about this movie, but then I thought, why the heck not. I knew it wasn't going to be a drama or something that would win Best Picture in the Academy Awards, but give the girl a break, will you. After seeing the movie, I must say it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. There were some really funny scenes and Ms. Spears' performance was less nerve wrecking than some of the so-called-professionals that are out there. She's never claimed to be a professional actress nor has she claimed that the movie should be nit picked and criticised in detail. It's a feel good movie, a 2 hour trip that takes your mind of the real world and see some young people have a good time. It's not supposed to be an intellectual workout. It was a good first movie for Spears and she did a good job as far as I'm concerned. The story is predictable, I'll give you that, but show me a teen movie that doesn't? For it's genre, it was a relatively good try. She had a good cast to support her performance and lead her to the right direction. It's cheesy, but in a good way. Let's face it, when Bodyguard premiered and Whitney Houston starred in her first movie, that was cheesy (and still is). But people still went to see it and had fun. Not every movie has to be an intellectual stimulant. Sometimes movies need to be just the opposite to be entertaining. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  ok i know what you must be thinking how can that movie be great?Well there are many reasons actually.I mean i em a super mega fan of Britney spears but even if you're not it's still a great movie.Another reason is that the story is great i mean three girls and a hot guy going on a roadtrip together what's wrong with it?ok so its a little corny sometimes but hey that just makes it a little better. It's also such a great movie because most stuff really happen in real life. So hey its the best movie ever "},{"Title":"totally awesome movie!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to see this movie and i thought it was great. Britney is an awesome actress and singer. I have all her CDs. Taryn (Mimi) and Zoe(Kit) were also great. Awesome Movie! I loved this movie. It is now my new favorite! "},{"Title":"I WENT TO THE MOVIES TO SEE HER MOVIE, AND I THOUGHT SHE WAS GREAT.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney was great in her new movie. She is a great inspiration to me and alot of people.I love her personality, music, and style. I Also like the other girls in the movie with Britney. WELL I think the movie was a nice accomplishment. THANKS ROSIE "},{"Title":"Overall Good Movie","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I liked this movie. Three old friends who had drifted apart imbark on a journey and have a great adventure together. As for Britney Spears, I am one of those who really doesn't care either way. I neither cheer nor jeer her. She is good looking, but there's more to people than just looks! I'm not a fan of her music, but cannot judge her because I don't even know her! THE POINT BEING is that you should watch this movie for the entertainment and adventures. Don't avoid it because you hate Britney, or watch it just because you love her!Again, this was a good movie and had a good plot. I give it a score of 7.5/10, and a B grade "},{"Title":"people need to relax...","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  OK, for those of you condemning Britney Spears for making this movie, calm down.  She does NOT have to act differently from any typical 20 year old just because pre-teens happen to look up to her.  She never asked for that responsibility and she does not need to change her lifestyle to live up to it.  This movie was rated PG-13, which quite frankly means that pre-teens should not have been allowed in without adult supervision.  And this movie was NOT a horrible thing for kids to see.  If you shelter a kid from the realities of life, do you know what you get?  You get a 35 year old baby who still lives at home because they are afraid of being away from their mommy.  That being said, the movie wasn't great, but wasn't the worst thing.   "}{"Title":"I thought this was chickflick and a real teen-boppy movie!","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have to say I pretty much enjoyed the whole movie, including the actors and actresses. It was a change to see Britney act and the other cast members did a great role aswell. The storyline reminded me a bit of 'Coyote Ugly' and also inbetween 'Save The Last Dance' where in both cases they wanted to have something to do with music but they had peers pulling them back.I would give 'Crossroads' a 9/10 for total, it has a sense of humour added to it and is probably best to watch for a girls day out!!!  "},{"Title":"Britney Spears, Taryn Manning. A road movie. Suprisingly serious film where Britney wins a karaoke contest! Spears is also cute and likeable. A fine performance from Manning as pregnant trash talking pregnan","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney Spears has largely escaped my notice, except that apparently she's the U.S. flag waver for maintenance of virginity until marriage.As such, she would represent a fairly small percentage of Australian brides and bride grooms I would imagine.I would like to report that in Crossroads Britney apparently does `do it'. That information might be vital for anyone considering attending the movie who would be offended by such a situation. And I would also like to announce that Britney Spears is cute and photogenic which the rest of the world no doubt have already noticed. And that she wins a karaoke contest! Surprise, surprise.Crossroads is a road movie. Three high school girls take off for a long drive to California with an unknown hunk who is rumoured to be a murderer (but who also has a car). That's about it.Films like these win or fail according to how interesting you find the characters. Lucy (Spears) is searching for her estranged Mum in Arizona.Kit (Zoe Saldana) is chasing after her boyfriend in L.A.. Mimi (Taryn Manning (Crazy/Beautiful) is pregnant and heading to a band audition in L.A.!The boy Ben (Anson Mount) is there mainly to look handsome for the girls and coincidentally to compose music for Lucy's poetry.  It all sounds fairly unpromising I know but Lucy and Mimi make a fairly weak script sing quite a bit at times. Things get pretty dramatic too in an offhand sort of way, to the extent that I thought for a moment that Mimi had gained her name from Puccini's La Boheme.That's no criticism either. Taryn Manning as Mimi adds quite a bit of bounce to film that could have been just a teenage homage to Britney. Crossroads has presented Britney Spears as an actress with a good deal of charm and a script that takes a surprisingly serious bent.3 Flys with Bared Navels Out Of Five.  "},{"Title":"It is a great film which you must go and see","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I loved Crossroads the movie. It was a great teen movie about friendship, love and growing up. All teenage girls will love it, it is even all right for boys- espcially Britney fans! I would give it a 10/10 rating and recommend it. It is a must see movie!      "},{"Title":"Britney can act","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads may have not the best script in the world but the acting isn't bad atall and Britney can actually act, it would be very interesting to see her in a film with a good script.Britney won't get an Oscar for this film but she won't be picking any rasberries up either. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"It's good","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've just seen this movie. Britney was great, she can act. The other two girls were awesome and the guy as well. The movie is not bad at all. Tamra Davis is the best director for this kind of teen movie! Actually I expected very little from this movie but what I've got from Crossroads is amazing. "},{"Title":"COMON YA ALL..GIVE HER A BREAK!!!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  OK..FIRST THINGS FIRST..give britney a chance..now this aint a movie that will win an oscar..we all know that.. watching this movie..is like walking in on your brother and sister..u get surprised(!)this movie was funny..and ok to watch!the script is plain..it could have been a little more special than this..its so plain..but..!it works!!the cast is ok..but britney got this sweet 14 year old girl act goin on..but in this movie it works pretty good.this is a hollywood - tv movie!and its ok to watch..i mean its entertaining and if you go there with a open mind..you migth have a good time..but dont do what critics do..goin in there just to trash britney and her movie.. its getting really OLD..its been goin on for years i give it 3.5 out of 5!! "},{"Title":"so much fun!!!!!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  OMG!  I just got back from seeing Crossroads with like 10 of my friends and it was so much fun!!!  We all sung all the words to EVERY song and just had a great time!!!  Although the movie itself wasn't all that great, it is a really fun movie!  it's a movie you should go see with a bunch of your friends becuase yall will have a great time!  and believe it or not, Britney Spears is actually i pretty good actress, a lot better than I thought she would be!!         it was so much fun!  every girl should go see it where there girlfriends~ ~!!!! ****Lindsay Carolena**** "},{"Title":"LOVED this movie","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have been reading some of the other comments and I cannot believe anyone has anything bad to say about the movie OR Britney's acting. For her first role, I thought she was awesome...she showed every emotion she was supposed to in a very believable way. I think some people are just expecting too much from the movie(and her) or they go into the theater thinking they will hate it and they do.Even if I were not a huge Britney fan, this would be one of my favorite movies ever. Since I AM a huge Britney fan, this IS my favorite movie and so far I have seen it 4 times.If she can make me laugh and cry every single time, then I consider it a damn good movie "},{"Title":"WAY Better Than Even I Expected.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"      I just got done seeing Crossroads, and it was way better than I expected. Zoe Saldana, Taryn Manning, Anson Mount, and Dan Akyrod were really great. Britney Spears was remarkably a pretty good actress, and could probably be in more movies. The movie was about three childhood friends Lucy, Kit, and Mimi. When they were young, they made a pact to dig up the box that they filled with their biggest wishes and dreams on the last day of high school at midnight. Now, they are here and they find that Mimi is going to Los Angeles to get a record deal, so now the girls are on a road trip, along with Ben, and they are going to have one of the best times of their lives.     All in all, I give Crossroads an  8 out of 10.  ) "},{"Title":"Spectacular movie, Britney does it again.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just have to say that this movie rocks. I'm a guy and really not into chick flicks, but this movie I had to see because I love Britney Spears, so of course I saw it. Well it was so good. It was so funny. I was laughing so hard that my jaw hurt. Trust me, its really a great movie. Britney is such a hard worker and now she has opened the door to the world of acting. She is so talented in many different ways ranging from singing, dancing, writing, and now acting. Well done Britney, you sure have done it again. "}{"Title":"Seen it twice, enjoyed it both times","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The movie has a low-key, weak storyline and characters. And the 180 switch of the ending is too abrupt. And I don't REALLY think that people conducting auditions enthusiastically applaud the aspirants, even when they like it.If Britney's part was played by somebody else I'd probably give it a 4. But Britney is very appealing, and a good actress, so that raises it to a 6.My favorite sustained scene is the karaoke bar scene, although the first appearance of Britney in her bedroom is extremely entertaining.Even though I'll see it a few more times, when I get the DVD I'll probably fast forward a number of scenes, so I can't really rate the movie a 10.  "},{"Title":"Britney's better!","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Yes, this was a Britney movie, and yes, i went to see it thinking it would bring new meaning to the word trash (I'm thinking Glitter here).  But it wasn't that bad.  Okay, there were some incredibly cheesy parts, but come on!  It's Britney...you can't expect an Oscar caliber performance on her first role.  I enjoyed it, and so have my friends who have seen it.  It's definitely worth seeing in a theater to listen and make as many smart ass and snide comments as possible.  Britney 4 Eva!  "},{"Title":"where do you start . . .","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I first went to see Crossroads, I was having mixed fellings, debating whether or not it was worth seeing (because I've heard that it stinks and I've also heard that it was cute). I ended up going and here's what I think of it  It was pretty much a suprise. It was pretty good, better than I expected. Britney Spears should feel proud of herself hence her good acting ( I didn't think she could act as well as she did ) and the script was ok... a lot of interesting plot twists! A lot of Ms.Spears fans of all sorts will want to see her acting debut, but, parents watch out, there is a bit of Britney doing not so pretty things but not to worry, you don't see too much. So, in closing, don't see Crossroads  just because Spears is in it, see it because it is a good story with a lot of moral.  And also, a lot of people may think it sucks because this movie is pretty fluffy, but it's all a part of what kind of movies you like. "},{"Title":"First 15 minutes only","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The first 15 minutes of the movie were pure cinamatic Gold! After that it pretty much stunk. But great performance by Warren Cheswick (NBC - ED) This movie should have been nothing bu the first 15 minute for like 1 hour and then maybe a bit more of Warren Cheswick "},{"Title":"Okay, I am NOT a Britney fan, but...","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Okay. I have really no appeal to Britney at all. But I went and saw the movie becasue one of my Mom's friends took her daughter who is 11 to see it and I went. Now, i have a weird feeling about Britney. I don't enjoy her voice, and everyone knows that I'm not into her. And yet I always flip to her articles and watch her on t.v. I walked into the movie theaters thinking I think this movie will be good. And i walked out thinking I LOVE BRITNEY! I don't know what it was. Still, I don't like her music and her voice, but she is an o.k. person! Half of me doesn't want to become a fan because one of my friends like drools over her and I think it is immature and... basically dumb... do be obsessed with a pop star. (They don't care if you know their favorite ice cream flavor!) And I just don't exactly want to be sucked into the Britney phenomenon, but I have to admit, I walked out of the theater liking Britney alot more and LOVING the movie... except I have to say my favorite character was not Britney... It was Mimi. And I also think you all were correct in saying that I would not take any Britney fan to see this. I mean people expect that becasue Britney is in it they will tone it down because of all the little people that will go see it. And yet they don't. (Oh, and I do, however, have to agree with whoever said that Britney sees saying ya'll as having a southern accent. I have lived down south and know they use that phrase alot, but she doesn't even have an accent!) Anyway... all in all I give it *****/***** "},{"Title":"A Nice Wholesome Film For A Change!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film starring Brittany Spears and the extremely beautiful Zoe Saldana is an old fashion story ofteenagers coming of age!  It was refreshing not to have to sit through 90 minutes of special effects and see a real story with emotions and values. Friendship. love of parents, and having fun!  These things that todays youth are not familiar with!  No violence,no horror , and very little sex! Brittany shows promise, but Zoe Saldana is the real star here!  I am far from being a teenager bt really enjoyed this film! "},{"Title":"Very cute movie for children and teens.","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie because it was different from anything else I've seen. There were a lot of fun surprises and good laughs to be had while watching the film. On a serious note the movie does have a good point that it makes about growing up, moving forward, and being independent, something every teen goes through eventually. Britney Spears and the rest of the cast all deserve applause for their excellent acting. These actors are perhaps the future of some of the greatest comedy's to come and I'd enjoy seeing more of Ms.Spears on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"Britney Spears - The Actress","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just saw Britney in her movie debut, Crossroads and must say I loved it 100%.  I definitely think she pulled off her role extremely well and I'm praying the movie doesn't take the same ugly turn Mariah Carey's Glitter (blech).  I especially don't think that teenage girls would only be the target audience for this film because it's in no way a teeny-bopper plotline.  There is some serious subject matter, as well as many laughs. All of the characters are likable (well, except for maybe one) and everyone did a fantastic job.  Congratulations, Britney!  Well done! "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just got back from seeing Crossroads and I have to say that is seriously THE BEST movie I've ever seen. I'm not saying it cause Britney was in it at all. Like i cried 5 times cause it was a very touching movie. It's like now when I look at pictures of her and listen to her songs I have a whole other image of her.It really changes your mind about things you know.I can promise after seeing this movie, you won't look at Britney the same way again. Like now, when I see a picture of her, I have a flashback to like the movie and like I feel like a thought or a feeling thats just different, a whole different and good kinda repsect for her now, she's a great actress, and I recommend everyone, even if they aren't Britney fans to go and see it.PS. sorry for saying 'like' so much, lol. "},{"Title":"Fake Review","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The fact that you say that you have seen the advanced screening, is bogus, because the advanced screenings have only been shown in NYC as well as CA. Goes to show your ignorance and jealousy.Notice how the only comments was on Britney Spears. I have seen the movie, and it was good. At the sony theatre, we were given the oportunity to see Crossroads as well as I am Sam. Both enjoyable.  Crossroads did surprise me, because I am not a Britney Spears fan. The movie shows off her vocal talent as well as acting talent. It also shows of the acting abilities of Tara, Joe, and Anson Mount.  The movie has a moral to it, not like  most teen movies. The movie is also unpredictiable. I give it 3 out of 5 stars, and recommend that you go see this movie, Britney fan or not.  "}{"Title":"Britney","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" When will there be an Asian, Arab, Native American, Latin, African pop princess to serve as a pop idol for Americans? Some might say Well there was Brandy and Monica? But they are never mentioned in the same breath as Britney and her rival record company clones Christina, Jessica, and Mandy and what's more Brandy and Monica etc. were marketed/packaged as soul artists rather than pop princesses on account of being Black. The presentation/exposure is totally dependent on race. J.Lo is a rare crossover exception but she is older and past her expiry date like Brit. All the other ethnic groups are virtually shut out. The Lindsay, Hillary, Jo Jo pop princess class was again all-white. Most of these singers are clearly more dependant on marketing/packaging than on raw talent so I have to believe that it must be possible to groom a minority pop princess if record executives in the entertainment industry weren't so racist. When the next class comes around minorities must demand representation. The Washington Post reports that 45% of children under 5 are now minorities so hopefully the next generation will be able to break the racist white stranglehold. "},{"Title":"Awesome, I'm Not Kidding","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" OK I don't see why everybody hates this movie! I'm not crazy about Britney anymore, either, but come on, guys! It was her first movie! Personally, I think she can act better than some of the top notch actresses! I think that if there's anybody in this movie who can't act, it's Taryn Manning, who plays Mimi. She shows no emotion whatsoever during the movie. Okay I said I was going to put spoilers in here, so here goes! Britney stars as Lucy, a small-town girl who lives with her overprotective father, who wants Lucy to be a doctor. Lucy, however, has a passion for singing. Lucy's mom left when she was three. Lucy has been trying all her life to get her father to reveal why she left, but he gets very touchy and defensive whenever Lucy brings the subject up. OK now I have to take you back in time to when Lucy, now 18, was 8 years old. She used to be best friends with Mimi and Kit. One night they dug a hole in a field, put things that represented their dearest wishes inside a shoebox and buried it in the hole, promising each other they'd always be best friends forever. They made a pact to dig the box up on the night of their high school graduation. The movie then skips to the day of their graduation, and we see that they are now as far from best friends as possible. Kit has become the most popular girl in school, Lucy is a nerd, and Mimi is a rebel, pregnant, and has therefore earned a reputation of being a trashy slut. Still, all three keep the pact and show up to dig up the box. Mimi tells Lucy and Kit about an audition for a record company in LA, that she is going with some guy, and invites Lucy and Kit to come along. Of course they both say no way, but Lucy sneaks out of the house at night, leaving a goodbye note to her father, to go. Kit also shows up. We see that there is an instant connection between Lucy and Mimi's guy, whose name is Ben. (He is not the father of Mimi's baby, however.) By this time we know that Kit is engaged to a guy named Dylan, and that she is going to see him in LA. To make a very long story short, we find out that Dylan is the father of Mimi's baby, then Mimi falls down a flight of stairs and loses the baby. (This is where I cannot believe the lack of emotion Taryn Manning displays.) Also, Kit scares Lucy and Mimi by telling them that Ben was once in jail for killing someone, (but we find that he was put in jail for basically nothing, I won't reveal what), Lucy finds her mom in Arizona, which is followed by a brilliant display of emotion from Britney. In the end, the girls are friends again and we see Lucy auditioning for the record company before the credits. This is an excellent movie and I encourage everyone to at least give it a chance. "},{"Title":"A funny, charming and likable film","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Britney Spears has her fans. She has her haters. Unfortunately, when evaluating Crossroads, most of her haters (people who will never say a good thing about her) overwhelmingly bash it for no apparent reason. Yes, Britney is a long way from Oscar-worthy but this is her first film and for the material provided, Spears more than provides a enjoyable experience for the viewer. The characters are a little too one-dimensional (Lucy's dad, Ben) but this film was made to appeal to a certain type of person. Crossroads is strictly for the under-16 crowd and girls who like a very girlie girl movie with a pop-star and singing/music. You don't need to be a Spears fan to like this film. What you need to do when viewing it is realizing that Crossroads delivers what it strives to; pure entertainment with some typical teen drama. A- "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I have seen some pretty awful movies, and this movie isn't that bad in the grand scheme of things. Not that it is good by any means, but it could have been worse.I personally enjoy the movie, because I love Britney. The truth is, you already know if you like the movie before you've seen it.It is true that Britney's performance is not groundbreaking. But look what she had to work with. The part when she reads her poem makes even me, a Britney fan, cringe.The plot is formulaic, the acting is mediocre, and the conclusion is obvious. But what did you expect? "},{"Title":"I don't understand why people give it such bad reviews?!?","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I have to say, I heard so many bad things about this movie that I was almost afraid to see it! But since I've seen Britney perform quite a lot (albeit on stage), I had a feeling she wouldn't disappoint me, and she didn't! Britney acts just fine in it - totally natural - didn't make me feel like she was overacting or anything. She convinced me in her dramatic scenes, and showed that she's capable of expressing any human emotion that she has to. Besides, it's a typical chick-flick, so it didn't bother me that the plot was predictable or anything. It's a fun movie to watch. I gave it an eight because even though it is a seven in my opinion (I reserve higher marks to movies that are truly exceptional in this genre like Pretty Woman, or When Harry Met Sally), I want to help raise its average rating. In other words, I'm well aware that this is no extraordinary film. but it does what is expected of it just fine - entertain you for about an hour and a half.And I repeat - I don't know why so many people trash Britney's acting abilities - she handled herself just fine and I dare say that if she ever stars in another movie I'll go see it or at least rent it if my friends are too judgmental to go see such a movie with me...Britney - rock on! -) "},{"Title":"So, who did Britney get on the wrong side of then???","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have just watched this movie, under extreme pressure as I really didn't want to see it after the horrible reviews it got, and I wonder who Britney upset to have gotten such bad reviews as this movie is really not that bad.In fact I have seen many movies far worse, and Britney's acting was as good as any of the young Hollywood actors just starting out - it wasn't Oscar material, and the story was hardly original, but the acting was good enough and the plot was just enough to pull the movie through to the end.I just wonder who exactly Britney ticked off as it seems that everyone has it in for her these days, and I'm not even a fan of her music, but she gets a lot of bad press and for what - for being a teenager who makes bad personal choices sometimes, hell we all did that.This movie was a good start for her - it proved she could act, she just needs to find some good material to be in!Watch this movie if you like road style movies, or if you just want to watch something that isn't too challenging and has a few good tunes in it - plus the guy in it is pretty cute too!  "},{"Title":"Not Sooo Bad","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie has a very low ranking.  Why?  Because of the star Britney Spears.  Not b/c she is a bad actor but just because it is a movie with her in it.  If I would have stuck all nobody's in the roles of these girls this movie would have not mad it to the bottom 100 here.  Was this a great film?  No not by any means but it was just like any other teen flik I have seen so it was okay.  This film serves as good advertisement for Britney CD's.  Acting was pretty bad but I have seen worse.  This movie should be watched by teens or people into teen movies.  Then maybe the rating will go up a bit. "},{"Title":"Oh come on, it's not that bad!","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  OK, so there have been more original plots but, to be fair, most romantic films are predictable. The backlash against this film seems rather exaggerated given that overall it was a reasonably enjoyable film - I've even coped with it twice, so it can't be that terrible! The acting in it was fine Britney put on a worthy show given her lack of experience and Taryn Manning gave a good performance and generally the cast was extremely likeable. They tried their hardest without the most inspiring material in the world, and it is actually funny in parts! Just get over your negative preconceptions before seeing the film and you never know, you might even enjoy it!  "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as its bottom 100 rating suggests","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm not at all a Britney Spears fan. When she sings she sounds like Bart Simpson. And, no, she didn't put in an Academy Award performance in this movie.However, I have to say that I did like this movie. It had a good story and was not at all the dumb blond movie that I expected it to be. It had heart and the characters even had some depth to them.It was far, far better than the likes of movies that rated higher than it did, such as The Stupids and Cabin Boy.Overall, I found the movie relatively entertaining and even touching in parts. I rated it a 7.  "},{"Title":"QUESTIONING?","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm wondering how a film that was either mediocrely or favorbly reviewed by critics could get such a harsh reaction from the public a 3.3 out of 10. Come on people if your not at least giving this a six you truly don't know what a bad film is.  It's just a basic, honest little star vehicle for a mediocre but far from bad actress and singer named Britney Spears.  hello people we've seen worse performances( Madonna the next best thing Kelly and Justin in you know what). So why all the outlashing against Ms. Spears.  I personally think this was an entertaining little films with hints of ripe melodrama filled with above to average performances from it's talented cast.  Maybe if she wasn't in ti people would have enjoyed it more. What a shame cause in my opinion she's got a lot to offer.  "}{"Title":"Does not deserve the low ranking","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I find it disappointing that people feel the need to rip on a movie and vote it into the bottom 100 list just out of jealousy and hatred towards a staring actor.  I saw this movie and no, it wasn't the greatest. However, the acting was decent, for the style of film, it had a good soundtrack. The story line was decent as well, following suit of many other teen movies. "},{"Title":"im totally defending this movie","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  its was not that bad. and it was britney spears first big movie so give her a break. i think it was a great first movie for her to do. the acting isnt academy award but this actors in the movie were basically new and just started. they had only done like 3 or 4 movies. i think people wanted to hate it becasue it was britney spears. i bet if say kirstn dunst played lucy it may of still gotten bad reviews but i bet people wouldnt have hapred all over it. there are some things wrong with it but nothing huge. all in all i thought it was a good movie not american beauty but it was good for what it was. it shouldnt be  compared to a acadmey award movie compare it to a teen movie and its teen audience. well i liked it and it was a good first movie for britney. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly not bad","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am in no way a fan of Britney Spears and I really expected the worst from this movie, but it honestly wasn't that bad.  It was no where near being a movie that would get awards, but I do think it had some lessons that people could learn from. "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  hey, i must admit that i'm not a big fan of britney's.  but i do have to admit that i've seen this movie more than once.  she is a decent actress, the guy was hot, and it was kinda funny.  come on people, give it a chance!! it really wasn't that bad! "},{"Title":"This ain't Glitter or Spice World","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, some of you all said that Crossroads is bad because of Britney Spears. Let me tell you something, the movie is good, even though it is not Oscar quality. In the past, people and critics would pan movies with pop stars in there like Spice World (The Spice Girls), A Walk to Remember (Mandy Moore), and Glitter (Mariah Carey). Spice World and A Walk to Remember are good movies. I can't say the same for Glitter.Now, the movie is nowhere near like Spice World or Glitter, because there is less cheesiness in Crossroads than Spice World and Glitter. Britney Spears is not a terrible actress. You all are putting her down as an actress because she is a singer. Cher is both a good actress and singer.I would recommend this movie for 13 years old or older, because there are some scenes that are inappropriate for younger eyes. If the deleted scenes were added in, then I would recommend it for 16 years old ore older.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. I think one of the reasons it got bad reviews and people say it's terrible is because it's britney and everyone seems to think she's so horrible, i used to be a massive fan until about a year ago, but i don't hate her.Another reason is probably that people don't think that singers can also be good actresses which i don't think is true, Britney's acting wasn't brilliant but for a first time it was pretty good.I don't recommend this to britney haters, because no matter what the movie is really like they will say it's the worst movie ever.Also alot of people have been saying britney is good at neither singing nor acting but a couple of years ago i doubt  they would have been saying that . Crossroads is definitely worth seeing but won't appeal to everyone , i'd give it a 8/10. "},{"Title":"I liked it only because I love Britney","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie has about three great scenes and little else besides that.  The scenes with Britney in her underwear make the movie worth watching.  The other scene that was good was the Bye Bye Bye sing-a-long- it was well done and very funny.  Just keep the remote close to you and fastforward to those parts and watch those parts only.  The rest of the film is a major suckfest.  "},{"Title":"Good for a 1st Movie","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  What do people expect for a 1st movie?  Britney did fabulous in her movie debut.  Definitely not an OSCAR contender but fun to watch.  Way to go Brit! I would definitely recommend this movie to a Britney Spears fan.  If you are looking for a fun movie with a good story line this is the one to watch. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really like this movie. I am not one of the biggest Britney Spear's fan but I really enjoyed this movie. I think she can really act. it was better then I expected it to be. I hope Britney can be in some more movies I would probably watched them since she did a great job in crossroads.  "},{"Title":"hey, it kept me entertained for about two hours; and that's really all a movie's supposed to do","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First of all, I must make a short comment on the other reviews I've seen.  There seems to be two distinct classes of reviews for this movie those based on the movie, and those based on the reviewer's feelings toward Britney.  I suggest reading those of the first kind (so long as you can differentiate between the two) for two reasons the first is actually useful in judging what others though of the movie, and the second kind has no purpose since you probably already know what you think of Britney.Okay, time to get to my review of the movie...As many reviews have pointed out, the movie isn't bad, but isn't great either.  It's enjoyable and entertaining, but not particularly thought-provoking.  Yes, it's predictable, but there's comfort in consistency (that's why people tend to order the same thing every time they go to a fast food place), so that's not such a terrible thing in some respects.  No, Britney won't win an Academy Award, but to tell the truth, she's a fine, believable actress.  The other two main actresses do pleasant performances as well.  The main male actor is easy to watch and looks comfortable in his character, so no complaints there either.  Sure, you've seen these characters before in numerous other teen movies, but just think of the collection of teen movies as a sort of series (like the Jack Ryan books of Tom Clancy or Nancy Drew books) where you watch the newest film in the series to see what these favorite characters have gotten themselves into this time.  Don't watch it thinking it's going to blow your mind or spawn days of philosophical pondering in solitude; it's simply meant to be a fun movie that keeps you entertained for a couple hours.  If you allow yourself to, you might just find you like the film.Final suggestion Don't watch it with friends who don't like Britney unless you have the same opinion (their comments will most likely take away from the movie and make it impossible to watch unbiased).Thanks for reading my humble opinions. "}{"Title":"worth seeing","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is worth seeing..I dreaded seeing it but my 12 year old wanted to so i rented it for her..and you know what I liked it and plan on buying it...It's a nice coming of age movie that is worth seeing .rent it tonight you will like it..... "},{"Title":"For her first movie, 3 words Good Job Britney!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Granted, this is your typical pre-teen to mid-teenage movie, but, for her first movie Britney Spears did an excellent job!  I'm in my mid-twenties and loved the movie at the theater and bought the DVD this week.  I look forward to seeing Britney in more movies.  Keep up the good work Brit. "},{"Title":"It wasnt as bad as i thought it would be","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok so i'm not the biggest Britney Spears fan.... but Crossroads I thought was a good fun chick-flick movie...I found the story line kinda dragged a little bit, but It was still a fun adventure.  Britney isnt that bad at acting!!.. i enjoyed her crying scene in the bathroom.  The best parts was all the singing.  I loved when they were singing to Shania Twain!! and I Love Rock n Roll. Although i'm a huge BSB fan....hello N'SUCK!!! hahaha  I love all types of music and singing.. so maybe that was my attraction to the movie...Of course its nothing like some of my other favourite movies, but overall i thought it wasnt that bad..I give it a 7/10!!!  "},{"Title":"excellent movie titled Crossroads not Britney Spears","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  despite the fact that britney isn't a golden globe winning actress, i think she did a decent job. i give her credit for going and giving it a try. i honestly really liked the movie. it had a good story line and i loved it. i walked out of the theater happy. the fact the others are discriminating against the film because britney spears was in it is not fair to the film itself. basically some are saying it was horrible because britney was in it, she was just one of the actors in it, i believe the movie is titled CROSSROADS not BRITNEY SPEARS. yea it had a lot of singing and song in it, what did you expect, a pop singer was in the movie, she was one of the main characters. a lot of the negative feedback was by non britney fans (who even descriminated against her music, what that has to do w/ the movie is beyond me)and i feel they should get pass that and see the movie for what it is. a typical teen flick that deserves credit.  "},{"Title":"When I first heard that Britney Spears was making a movie I like most people rolled my eyes, but when I saw it I was surprised.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have to disagree with all those who say this movie wasn't good.  When I first heard that Britney Spears was making a movie, I like most people rolled my eyes.  However I saw a preview for it, and it didn't look half bad so I decided to go see it.  I expected only something mildly entertaining and I would probably never see it again.  I was surprised.I loved the movie!  The script I thought was very nicely written, and I thought Britney did an excellent job playing Lucy.  I was impressed with the issues that the script tackled.  Unlike most teen movies now days all you get is a boyfriend-girlfriend conflict.  However Crossroads tackles issues of family, rape, teen pregnancy, teen drinking, and the expected boyfriend-girlfriend problems.  I will admit that probably one of the reasons I liked it so much was because I could relate to Lucy.  Her character struck very close to home with me.All in all I was very pleased with it, and think that everyone should at least see it once.  You like me might be surprised. "},{"Title":"it was not as bad as the majority has drawn it to be)","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just watched the movie something like half an hour ago. It was alright. I read a lot of criticism about it, but it was not that bad..People just have that stereotype in their heads when it comes to young pop-stars like Britney..I say she did a pretty good job. The songs were well fitted, of course there was a lot of self-promotion in there, but, hey, we should give her credit for that 'cause that's a merit too) And she's not that bad at acting) Actually I found her sincere.My conclusion?) It's a pretty good pastime for a cold evening under the blanket) "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I had expected ...","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie isn't life changing, it's not hilarious, it's not well-done, but it's not awful. I'd much rather sit through this movie rather than alot of the other teeny bopper films. I don't think Britney Spears is that bad of an actress, and I think she looked awesome in the movie b/c she wasnt trying to look like a temptuous slut the whole time. It was nice and short too so it doesnt bore you either ... I give it a 6/10 ... its entertaining at the least. "},{"Title":"Don't diss Britney!! she rules!!!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, so the film didn't have the most convincing storyline- but it wasn't meant to! And it had some pretty cringey moments... but almost every film has them!! This film was not intended for greatness... but as a funny feel-good movie I enjoyed it really much!! Britney was good and so were her supporting cast!!! It was great for what it was and i would watch again!!! So lets not be quite so nasty about it!!!7/10!!! Well done Britney! I think u rule! "},{"Title":"The only (and best) choice for Britney fans!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am a huge Britney fan and after seeing this movie, I'm glad that she hasn't let her fans down.Britney turns out an amazing first-time acting performance, along with the very cute Anson Mount.  They have great chemistry together and Britney as Lucy is very likable.  She acts a lot like she does in real life, but that's okay since this is her first starring movie.  Her two friends, Kit and Mimi, do a good job too.  There are many funny moments in Crossroads, but I won't spoil them.  There are also a few very emotional moments, too.  But they just make the movie more special and meaningful to me.After seeing Crossroads twice now, I'm now looking forward to seeing Brit's next movie, which is probably a part in the next Austin Powers.  But Crossroads is currently my favorite movie.  You did it again, Britney! 10/10! "},{"Title":"it's a really nice movie","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I did really like this movie, it's not that special or something, but it's a enjoyable movie to watch. I'm not even a fan of her and i think her music is mostly awful but the acting from Britney was well worth it. Taryn Manning i like the most though in this movie.  "}{"Title":"Britney's movie doesn't suck!","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am aware that the movie is not a masterpiece, but it is nowhere near as bad as Mariah Carey's Glitter. Unbelievably, Crossroads is a fun movie that deals with important issues teens have. The story follows three teens that were best friends when they were kids, but have since grown apart. In order to regain their friendship, they go on a roadtrip with a guy to California. Sure, there are some bad scenes, and there are some where you laugh with embarresment for the actors, but it is still likable and easy to sit through.My Grade B "},{"Title":"A film only Britney could get away with.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The basis of my enjoyment of this nice-girl-getting-to-know-old-friends-while-rebelling-against-overbearing-parents film were the performances of its three female leads. Britney was fine and ultra engaging in a role not far removed from her music world persona; Zoe Saldana and Taryn Manning as her partners-in-crime fared well also, (although I could never quite get past the feeling that the characters had only ever been friends for the sake of the situation; i.e. Saldana and Manning never achieved any real chemistry with Britney, despite striking a rapport between themselves. Anson Mount as Ben provided the 'eye candy'; an effect that was lost on me being in the demographic the film wasn't setting out to aim for, (19 yo hetro white male,) but his performance was adequate enough and he achieved the requisite chemistry with Britney, (though I laughed at the artful taste of 'that scene' where a lot of fluttering sheets and whistling curtains replace what the world wanted to see and, I expect, what Britney knew we wanted to see.)Dan Aykroyd fared surprisingly well in a thankless sort of a role, while Kim Cattrall's cold-as-ice scene left me disappointed that more time couldn't have been used to posit an explanation for her coldness, (after all, if I remember rightly, she hung around until Lucy was three; what made her run off? Surely Dan Aykroyd couldn't have been THAT hard to live with...)The scene in which Ben writes some music for 'that poem you read me last night' contains what must be one of the film's funniest moments, when we are desperately persuaded that 'Not A Girl...' is a completely new song that has only just been conceived. I don't know what coverage there has been in other parts of the world, but I first heard the song before September 11, so the moment lacked that wonder for me.As far as musical numbers went, I thought that they were too 'realistic' to be impressive. I found particularly 'I Love Rock 'n Roll' wasn't any more impressive than a mediocre karaoke night. I felt that it would have been more effective had it broken out of the 'reality' of the story, (any good musical movie does this; think Woody Allen's 'EVERYONE SAYS I LOVE YOU.')I enjoyed the movie a lot, don't get me wrong. I enjoyed stifling smirks at the blatant plugging of Pepsi, (apparently every gas station in America stocks and advertises Pepsi, while neglecting to display that other reasonably well-known and popular red coloured bottle,) and those bottles of Clariol Herbal Essences (I've got the urge!) I also appreciated the subtle advertising of that boy band that must have had some connection to either the director or one of the stars, I dunno...I will warn now I am biased in that I am a fan of Britney's stage persona, and thus found it engaging in this context. Although the other performances were fine, DON'T see it for that. If you find Britney irritating/annoying, save your $10 and see another music-based film out last year, 'MOULIN ROUGE.' Now I'm thirsty. Might go grab a Pepsi with a Clairoil chaser...BYE BYE BYE!**** out of 5. "},{"Title":"i thought this movie was quite good for.....","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  i thought this movie was quite good, for a movie staring britney spears. Now i saw this on a school day (even though i dont like britney)with my friends, and all of us thought is was good. But britney is in desperate need of acting lessons. i mean come on, that crying scene an the start of the film......u can tell she is an amateur. (p.s. that lead guy is HOT!!!!!!)over all i gave this film a 5 no no wait... make that an 8 out of 10 (2 extra points for the HOT lead guy) ...lol "},{"Title":"Well done Britney","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Why do you all insist on bagging her.  The movie was not intended to win oscars.  It was intended to introduce Britney to the world of film.  I think she did a sound job considering it was her first time (no pun intended). It was a fun, happy movie that you could sit back and not have to think too much.  It was great to go and see all the young children in the cinemas smiling and seeing their idol on the big screen.  If you can't have a bit of fun watching Crossroads, you need to lighten up a bit.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie opened on Australia on Thursday and i went to see it and i loved it. I can see why some people wouldn't like it because it is a chick flick. Only people who like chick flicks will like this movie. So if you enjoy movies like Ever After and She's All That you will like this movie. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie happens to be one of my favorites. It was a lot better than most have said, and hasn't gotten it's fair share at the box office. A lot of people expected another Glitter, but got a much better film. Many great things to say about this film. Can't wait to see what Britney cooks up in Austin Powers 3 "},{"Title":"Best Movie Of The Year!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads which starrs Britney Spears only opened up in cinemas yesterday where I live (Which is in Australia). I saw it today and it really has to be the best movie I have seen this year.Being Britney's first movie it really does show that she not only has a great voice for singing, but a great acting talent. I really think this movie will be a huge hit around the world and not just because it has Britney Spears in it, but because it's a great movie.I found this movie truly funny and fantastic to watch on the big screen, I totally can't wait for it to come out to rent and will definitely be one movie I am buying on DVD of which I hope has some special features on it, i.e. behind the scenes footage and audio commentary with Britney Spears would be great features for the DVD! It should also have the two film clips for Overprotected and I'm Not A Girl, Not Yet A Woman as those two songs are great and I love the film clips.I'd just like to thank the whole cast and crew of Crossroads for making such a great movie that really made me want more when it ended, I didn't want to leave the cinema, I wanted to watch it over and over and over again.O) "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I could not get over how good this movie was.  If you have not gone yet to see it, you have not lived!  I went for the first showing of the day and watched all day long.  I slept in the theater so i could be first to see it the next day!  This was the movie of the century, screw E.T., or for that matter, titanic, more like trash-tanic. i hated that movie so much. Dicaprio sucks, lots. i loved crossroads, it was amazing, it is my new religion. Praise Britney! "},{"Title":"An Entertaining Film","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was lucky enough to get to see this film at a pre-screening here in the UK 5 days before it's official release but I am paying to go see it again over the weekend. That in itself should indicate how much I enjoyed this film. I found it to be entertaining from the start to the finish, it was humourous, had some very emotional segments and also some very good messages to put across. It's one of the few films that when it came to the end I was genuinely wishing it would go on for another half an hour... The cast worked very well together and I feel that Britney Spears played her part very well, especially considering the fact that this was her first movie role. If you are looking for a fun, entertaining movie to go see then I can definitely recommend this one to you. Forget the critics comments and judge it for yourself I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Typical Teenager Movie","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I've always been one to stand out from the crowd, and I went to see Crossroads alone. Not because I was embarrassed, but because I didn't want to make any of my friends suffer through the Britney movie that everyone was hoping to fail.Ironically, even in my mid-twenties, I still enjoy a good teenage movie. I enjoy reliving those awkward moments in life and remembering what it was like some years ago. Crossroads is just like your typical teenage movie, with predictable plots and angst. I didn't go into the movie thinking it was going to be award winning, but I came out quite surprised. I enjoyed it more than I expected, even being a Britney fan (what can I say, the girl is beautiful!).She deserves some credit, as well as the other girls who took part. I saw familiar faces and maybe this will be their chance. They all deserve it, and a fair one. I can't believe that everyone who saw the movie could've hated it that much... I think they just dislike Britney and want to make it be known.  "}{"Title":"Colour me impressed!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was hesitant about seeing &#145;Crossroads' mostly because Britney Spears was the main star. Sure, she can sing, dance, whip males into a sexual frenzy, pull off the most revealing outfits, but can she act? It turns out, she can! She impressed me and I like Britney more than ever now. Although she was very good, I didn't think she was the best in the film. Zoe Saldana, who played the pretty, popular little madam Kit and Taryn Manning who played the pregnant, level-headed rock chick Mimi, blew me away. They were fantastic and the chemistry between the characters Kit, Mimi and Lucy (Britney's character) was great fun and very enjoyable to watch. Anson Mount, the mysterious driver Ben, was impressive. I haven't seen him in anything else before and although I didn't think he and Lucy fitted well together, the actor and the character were likeable.The only flaw was how the writers droned on about how Britney Spear's was a singer! We knew beforehand but every other scene was her singing, dancing, writing song lyrics and pretending it was poetry. I think Britney's very talented, both musically and in acting, I don't need any reminders! Some might say the film was predictable, and true, some bits were. Still there were twists and surprises.The overall film was a feel-good movie, it did have the cheesy lines and moments most films have, but it was fun and lively. I recommend it to anyone looking for a light enjoyable film.  "},{"Title":"Actually Pretty Good","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is actually a pretty good movie.  It took me a while to see it since none of my friends wanted to see it.  Well, the joke's on them.  Yes, I am a huge Britney fan.  But even if you're not a Britney fan, you gotta say that Britney is not bad at acting.This film's plot was predictable, and there were some parts of the film that did not make much sense, however this film was about 3 former friends finding their friendship again and was well put together by the director.I thought that there would be more of Britney's songs in this movie, but there were only a select few.  I guess that disappointed me a little, however it still was a good movie, and I'll definitely see it again.  "},{"Title":"I thought it was wonderful","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie last weekend and loved it.  Britany exceeded my expectations and I thought she was wonderful.  Her crying scene was one of the best I have seen.  The movie even inspired me and my two friends to take a road trip.  I give Britany props for this movie....well done!!! "},{"Title":"It wasn't great but it had a really good message","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think it was a really good movie. It was kind of boring at the beginning but then it got more interesting toward the end. Britney may not have been the BEST actress you've seen out there, but you need to give her a chance. This is her first movie. First movies aren't going to be perfect. I think this movie had a good message for teens.Rating 4/5 ****/***** "},{"Title":"I really liked this movie.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie and so have all my friends. We can't stand Britney, but we all absolutely loved it. Crossroads has a really neat story plot which is easy to follow and could be realistic. I think everyone should go see this movie, even if you don't like Britney, you might be surprised!!!! "},{"Title":"Jealous much?!?!?!","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am astounded! Can anybody say jealous much???? Yes, you heard me right folks! People are just jealous over Miz Spears! It's blatantly obvious, isn't it?!?!? Anyway, Crossroads is not THAT bad! sure, it's a pretty predictable story, and it has some pretty pathetic scenes, but overall? you get your money's worth. Contrary to what some people might say (y'all know who you are!), Britney is a capable actress. She's very natural, and she does not come across as trying hard. Although in some takes, she does tend to falter a bit. Anson Mount is definitely a hunk and a half! Likewise though, there are some scenes wherein you just want to hit him in the head for a deeper emotion. Zoe Saldana was great as the bitchy highschool princess while the girl playing Mimi (sorry, I forgot her name)was lagging a little on the acting wagon. Dan Aykroyd would have made quite an impact on the film if he was given a bigger part. As it is, we only see snippets of him throughout the flick. Kim Catrall is a good actress but was not given much time in the film. It would have been good if there was a big confrontation scene between Lucy and her mom. So, as a rating? I'll give it an 8 out of 10.P.S. I am NOT a Britney fan. But I do know jealousy when I see/ read one. Y'all just have to stop dissing her just 'cause you do not like her music. Live and let live, people!!!! "},{"Title":"It's an awesome film!","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I believe that Britney Spears is an excellent actress as well as singer. I think that all of the haters need to keep their mouth shut and not diss, because obviously they are jealous. She did an awesome job in the movie and I thought it was very great. I look foward to seeing her in upcoming films. All of you who are leary of seeing it, I say go! You'll love it!  "},{"Title":"One of the best....","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This was probably one of the best movies I have seen in a LOOOOONG time. Other than the opening scene where B.S. is dancing on her bed in her underwear, I cried, laughed, and was honestly interested and rooting for the actors...A MUST see.... depite what the votes say! "},{"Title":"I'm Kinda Crossed Between This Film.","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"   Some people were actually awaiting Britney Spears' acting debut. I personally was mildly interrested. I'm sorta a Britney Spears fan, but, as time goes on, I'm sorta getting a little sick of her whole image thing about how we all must accept the fact that she's not a girl but not yet a woman. It's really growing thin. I think, we all know that she's definitely no young girl! WE CAN ALL SEE THAT. But anyway, I'm going off track here. Crossroads is a movie going into I know I wouldn't like. Why do you ask? Because, to be completely honest, exactly how good can a film starring Britney Spears be? And secondly, why would I even want to go see a movie where I know I won't like it? That's because 2002 is shaping into a year of dreck. There's not one good film that has started to come out.  Crossroads I think will please it's target audiences. I'm guessing young 12 - 16 (?) year old girls. Other people who bash this film had, to be honest, no business going to see this movie. Yeah it's true, I didn't care for the film very much, but, I don't like reading or listening to older people who are already against Britney Spears bash the film. If you dislike the lead star so much, there's very little chance you'll give yourself a chance to enjoy it. As you watch the film the whole time you'll be critical of what your seeing. I on the other hand, wanted to like it. I wanted to be able to fully defend it. I wanted to be able to say Britney Spears deserves more attention than what she's getting, I can only mildly defend her and this movie. And I only defend her because I'm a fan of her music, not so much the film itself. I just like her, for her, nothing more nothing less.  Crossroads lags. It really is kinda boring. The viewer isn't drawn into these characters enough to honestly care about what happens to them. Sure, we can say this is a sad movie, and when certain tragic events happen we can for that moment say,Awwwwwww, I don't know what I would do if that was me?, but 99% of the time, we only say these things because we're not heartless. Crossroads coulda been a good movie. There were themes of date rape, peer pressure that young girls face in losing their virginity, and self discovering. All elements that some very good films have dealt with. Crossroads chickens out. And for this we blame not Spears, but scriptwriter Shonda Rhimes.  Because of undevelopped characters and awful pacing I can't say I enjoyed this movie. Do I think everyone will dislike this film? No. I think it's target audience will enjoy. And they should. I'm giving it ** out of **** or a 5 on a scale of 1-10. "},{"Title":"Movie about three friends rediscovering lost friendships!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought the movie was really good.  The story line was very good. The acting was not bad, either, and believe me I have watched some really bad acting!!!  I am 34 years old and took my 17 year old daughter and we both enjoyed it.  In ways it reminded me of Coyote Ugly, so I think if you liked it, you should be okay with this one!!!  Because of other reviews, I wasn't expecting much, so I would say I was pleasantly surprised. "}{"Title":"An Enjoyable movie not to be taken seriously.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have heard a lot of people talk bad about this film, but in my eyes, I thought it was entertaining. Britney was better than I thought she would be and I actually left the theatre happy.Now I wouldn't give out any oscars or anything but truth be told, this film is a lot of fun. There are some unbelievable things in this movie though.1-How is Britney single in high school when she is the best looking girl in the damn school. I am sure Britney would have a popular boyfriend.2-All three friends make it to the burial site at 1200 am on prom night. When I was in High School, prom didn't end till the next morning, maybe the weekend.3-That whole scene with Britney taking the car keys from the sleepy driver sleeping in the back seat.These are just a few examples, however, if you look past all of those, here are some interesting notes(Spoiler, Beware)Britney's Mother does not bring Britney into her home with open arms, instead, Britney leaves the mothers house all depressed.All in all, this may not be a Theatre type movie, but it will definitely be a renter. "},{"Title":"What a Good movie","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I took my 10yr old daughter and her friend to see this movie. Thinking it would be awful because of the review at imdb. I was expecting the worst and even begged to see something else. Was I surprised at this movie! Britney was really good and the story line was really cute. I truly enjoyed this movie. My daughter loved it too.  "},{"Title":"When you're good, you're good.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm a big Britney fan and I'm very proud of her music.  As far as her acting, I wasn't to sure if she was going to do as well.  She did a great job during her first stint on SNL but her last one wasn't as great.  (I'm guessing its because the great cast members were gone by then, i.e. Wil Farrell) Usually when you're great at one thing, you're only okay at anything else.  Kobe Bryant is arguably the best Basketball Player today but he can't rap a lick.  But being that I'm a big fan, I threw away all doubts and I put my $8 to support her and I was pleasantly surprised.  I was expecting 3 best friends to go on a road trip to become famous, *sigh*, not a very interesting story at all.  But the fact that they were not best friends when the trip started and that they all were on the trip for very different reasons was a great change.  The audition was not even Lucy's reason for the trip.  It was only to see her mom. The chemistry between all the characters was impeccably real.  The situations and issues that were dealt with are all real and some even hit home with me.  Namely the situation between Lucy and her mom.  Overall, I was very impressed.  Brit, Zoë, Taryn and Anson did a great job of bringing real loveable characters to life.  My hat's off to you all.  And Britney . . . What can I say? When you're good, you're good. "},{"Title":"Britney Spears IS a good actress in a good movie.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I just saw this film tonight, and now I can't understand how all these people can dis' it. I'm not a Britney Spears fan. I hate her music. I went into the movie theater expecting a lame teen melodrama - the kind that's right up there with 'A Walk to Remember' and 'Summer Catch'.That is not what I got. Crossroads is a serious dramatic film - yes, it is a teen movie. But it's a serious teen movie. Despite the advertisers trying to play it off as sugary by showing the few happy scenes in it, 'Crossroads' deals with serious issues. Teen pregnancy. Abortion. Divorce. Mis-Carriage. Date Rape.All the actors in this film were great, INCLUDING Britney Spears. Whether you like her music or not you have to agree that she put on an incredible performance. Her two friends shine in this film also.Maybe all the people that have been criticising this film should actually go SEE it instead of just making assumptions based on the previews and characters. Maybe you should actually pay attention and start giving movies a chance. The people that gave this movie a bad review are probably the same people that give plotless action movies like Colateral Damage 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"This is a good teen flick!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'll admit, yes I am a Britney Spears fan, and that's the main reason I went to see Crossroads. I saw it twice in its opening weekend, and I loved it. Everyone is saying how it sucks, and how Britney is a bad actress, but she's really not a bad actress. Crossroads is definitely a girl-bonding movie. I wouldn't recommend it for people younger than about 11, because of minor language, some drinking, and a minor sex scene. This movie is definitely for teenagers. Britney is, like I've said, a good actress. When I saw the movie, there were only about 3 parts when I rolled my eyes and was like, That's too Britney. She shouldn't have done that. Britney is very convincing as Lucy.All the other characters are very good. Dan Akroyd (who I LOVED in My Girl) is great as Lucy's father, Pete. Taryn Manning and Zoe Saldana are also good as Britney's friends, Mimi and Kit. This movie has a lot of heart. The real shocker (with Mimi and Kit, that I won't reveal) gave me goosebumps all over. Give this movie a chance! "},{"Title":"Some may think this was a dumb movie, but hey..it was good anyways!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm not brainless, nor a teenager, but I broke down and went to see this movie with my best friend just for the fun of it..and you know what..we enjoyed it..just for the fun of it!  This movie is not meant to have any great significance and it's not going to make you any brighter, or dumber for that matter..it's just a movie about a group of friends having a blast on a roadtrip.   God knows I've dissed Britney Spears before and will again in the future but I do like a lot of her songs and I did like this movie..not because of her but because of everyone else in it and some of the stupid things they do..and the fun they have doing it all.  Reminded me and my friend of a lot of the stunts we pulled.  As long as you can have fun watching a movie because..oh noo..it's just a movie..well than I think you can actually get a few laughs out of this one! Oh and guess what..Britney Spears didn't do a half bad job in this movie either! "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  For a teen movie, it was very entertaining.  However, I know that it will get a low rating, because their are many brainless haters out there.  They seem to be rating Britney as the person they loathe, as opposed to Britney, the talented singer/actress.  I personally think that she did a good job acting in this film, even if haters, brainwashed by the media to hate her, deny that fact. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  OK I don't see why everyone is dissing this movie.  Just cuz Brit's in it doesn't mean it sucks. I loved it.  It wasn't my favorite of all time but I still think it was good.  I think anyone who didn't like it should keep their opinions to themselves. "},{"Title":"For females and Brit fans!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  OK I'll admit it, Crossroads is not bad. I'd have to say I enjoyed it. The movie is really not that bad, if you wanna see it just for Britney go ahead. If you are not a fan of Britney AT ALL, you should NOT watch it, but if you love Britney, DON'T miss this movie! The story of the three friends is great and it plays out very well. Britney's acting is not bad at all, there are only two short parts where she acts bad, but in other scenes she acts VERY well (especially the emotional scenes). The only bad thing about Crossroads, is that in some parts the movie gets boring and drags on, but in the end it's all good. So if you really love Britney Spears, watch the movie, if not, don't. "},{"Title":"Such A Cute Movie!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie as a huge Britney Spears fan but when I tell you I loved it I mean it!  It made me laugh and cry and after I was done watching the movie I could do nothing but praise it.  When the girls go on a road trip you can see Lucy becoming who she truly wants to be and it gets very emotional.  Despite all the people who say she can't act, she can!! I really liked her and all the other actors in the movie.  So far, best movie of the year. "}{"Title":"All girls must watch this!","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'd heard mixed reports about this movie, but I wanted to see it anyway because of the previews I'd seen and I am so glad I went! Every girl around college age should watch this - my best friend and I went to see it and loved it.  We could have sworn it was us on the screen and we laughed the entire time.  Britney did a fantastic job on her first starring role! "},{"Title":"Fun and cute film - good starting role for Britney.","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm noticing a large number of negative comments from other IMDB reviewers about how bad this movie sucks, blows, never should have been made. I'd like to ask those folks if they like Ms.Spears AT ALL. Do they bob their heads when Oops I did it again comes on the radio? Do they read the interesting in-depth articles in Rolling Stones about her? I have a theory that they do not. There are folks out there that hate whenever anybody gets very popular, no matter how talented or deserved, and I suspect that these reviewers are letting that bias their reviews of this film. Now don't get me wrong, Crossroads is no Shakespeare production, but it is a cute, and fun film that if you can go into it with an open mind, will surprise you.The plot is simple. Three little girls bury a box filled with dreams, and vow to dig it up on their high school graduation night. During that time, the girls grow apart, but they do return to dig up the box from their childhood. This sets the movie in motion to take the girls across the U.S. on a road trip with a guy they barely know in search of (among other things), a recording contract, a missing mother, and a distant fiancee. Sure, some of the situations are predictable, but so what? I haven't been to a movie in YEARS that hasn't had SOME degree of predictability in it's plot. The dialogue is realistic and charming. And the three principle actresses, Zoe Saldana as Kit, Taryn Manning as Mimi (looking like a modern Soleil Moon Frye from Punky Brewster), and yes, miss Britney Spears as Lucy are all excellent in their roles, and become characters you quickly care about and want to see the best happen to. Also good is Anson Mount as Ben, the token guy throughout this cross country trip. I particularly liked the scene where he said that his car was the one thing not taken over by women yet. Being a guy who's always managed to have more female friends than male friends, I've been in his shoes many a time! ^) Dan Aykroyd was also good in his role as Britney's single father, although I did keep having Ghostbusters flashbacks whenever he was on screen, but that's just me...Although most folks are calling this a comedy, it's not a laugh out loud film. It's not meant to be. It's more of a romantic, adventurous, Dramedy if you want to be exact.And as a final comment to all the naysayers out there... Remember a man named Mark Wahlberg? When his first film came out, wasn't everybody putting HIM down, saying he was nothing more than a flash-in-the-pan pop/rap star? He did record those songs Good Vibrations and Wildside with the Funky Bunch, if you recall. Now look at him. Great roles in Renaissance Man, the Basketball Diaries, Boogie Nights, Three Kings, the Perfect Storm and others have elevated him to revered acting status.I can't help but wonder if a similar career awaits Britney. If so, more power to her, there's nobody more deserved! ^)    "},{"Title":"It really IS a good movie","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie a couple days ago with a few other friends.  We all thought it was good.  I wasn't sure what to expect.  I like some of Britney's songs, but I never have really been a fan of her.  I thought she did a good job along with the other actors.  I recommend this movie to people and am planning on buying it when it comes out on DVD.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"A Cute down to Earth Movie","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney Spears in a movie, you must be kidding me. That is what I thought when I first heard about 'Crossroads'. Now I think brilliant. The movie was great and cute about a you girl becoming a woman. Unlike recent singers to actors movies like 'On the Line', 'Crossroads' is not and will never be a flop. Britney was perfect for the role and the story was no where near cheesey. For all those adults out there who have doubts about this, remember the child in you. And for all those young girls live for who you are, and that is the under lying message in this movie! ENJOY! "},{"Title":"A wonderful, well-done movie.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although I have not been the biggest fan of Britney Spears in the past lately I have found myself listening to her music more and more.  When this film came out I was interested in seeing how she would do in a full length film.  I can honestly say I was surprised by how well she did and how good the movie was.For her first performance in a movie, she did fantastic.  Let us all not forget how horrible some of our favorite stars did in their first films. I would recommend this film to everyone and anyone.  The film had the right mix of acting and singing, and it was hilarious to see Dan Akroyd back in a major motion picture.  He was awesome, and watching this movie made me want to go home and pop in The Great Outdoors, and awesome Dan Akroyd movie.I went to go see this film with my fiancee, and even though he kicked and dragged every inch of the way to the theater, he thought that the movie was great. Don't let your taste in music get in the way of seeing this film. His favorite bands are metallica and Godsmack, mine are Bush and Limp Bizkit and we both loved the film!So just in case any of the actors of the film see this, you all did awesome, don't let the negative feedback get to you!  It's a great film. "},{"Title":"Breezy fluff but fun anyways","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film is a light-weight comedy about a trio of girls, who, after high school graduation, embark on a cross country road trip with a guy they just met.. and think might be a killer?? Ok.. so the story is silly and makes little sense.. but as a vehicle for pop star Britney Spears to make her acting debut it's fine.. Britney actualy shows good screen presence and is believable and watchable in her part, her lack of experience does show but she definitely has promise and is probably the best thing about this film... though the film itself is actualy kinda fun to watch if you are in the mood for some light breezy fluff... sure the story flaws, such as Britney being an unpopular high school girl (not very likely), are numerous.. but hey it's still fun to watch and Brit gets to sing a few songs to promote her new CD.. what more could you ask for? GRADE B- "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one movie that you should not miss. Britney is as good an actress as she is a singer. This movie had a wonderful story line that I think alot of young girls can relate to, (I know I can) and sends a good message! I had no doubt that this would be great and it certainly did not disappoint me! GO SEE IT!!! "},{"Title":"This movie was cute and funny...","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Crossroads is a cute and funny film.  Britney is beautiful and adorable. I don't understand why so many people enjoy putting her and this movie down. Personally I thought the movie was enjoyable and it reminded me of my friends in high school.  Go see the movie with an open mind. "},{"Title":"A really good movie","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I first saw the trailers I didn't think it would be a very good movie. I saw it because I'm a Britney Spears fan and wanted to see how it would be. I'm glad that I saw it because it was one of the best movies I've ever seen. I think that Britney did a good job acting even though people who don't like her will say she wasn't a good actress. The movie was funny in some parts while in others I was almost crying. I love this movie and think that even if you don't like Britney Spears, go see it anyway.  "},{"Title":"Run-of-the-Mill Teen Film Is Not That Bad","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  When watching this film, you have to expect three things 1, lack of depth, 2, product placement, and 3, a whole lot of Britney. This film is not bad despite the trailer, its just your run of the mill teen film which incorporates pressing issues for teens (pregnancy, drinking, unwanted children) with the added bonus of a pop icon.As for Spears, she's not a bad actress, however, the role doesn't really require major acting chops. She's a natural screen presence - believable and sweet. The supporting cast give strength to fairly poorly written roles as the spotlight is on Spears. If you want some fun on the screen, watch this film. If you want intellectualism and impact, don't. A teen delight. "}{"Title":"I went to see Britney and I was not disappointed","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Wow......the first 15 minutes were worth it. I paid $6.25 to see Britney and I loved every minute. The movie really did suck, obviously, but Britney was hot. Sorry, I am a college student, you can't blame me. Go see Crossroads, trust me. "},{"Title":"Awesome film!!!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I personally think as a fan and a film knowledge that I have that this movie has a really awesome plot! The acting is awesome specially from Britney Spears, she just so good. The movie is really educative, and it has a beautiful message to all of the teenagers out there. It has everything, love, hate, comedy, drama, ect!!! I totally love Crossroads (awesome movie)!! "},{"Title":"DEFINITELY WORTH YOUR MONEY","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This film was a lot more entertaining then i expected. Spears is a better actor then I thought. She did very well for her first effort. The writing was a little shaky in some parts. I thought the mother in the movie was to over the top mean to her daughter. "},{"Title":"Better than I expected.  Soundtrack seemed cheese at times though.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Over all it was better than I expected.  You could tell Britney worked on her acting.  I liked it. The only thing that seemed cheesey was all the songs from her album that has been out for months now.  They should have released the album later, as a soundtrack, or the movie earlier.  Kinda killed some scenes, but overall I liked the movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Most people here seem to be rating Britney and Crossroads purely based on their preconceived ideas on her.  I'm rating it as it is a teen movie with a pop singer in it.  With that in mind, I rate this a 10.  It was a teen movie that I actually enjoyed, which is rare.  Her acting was pretty good, too. ) "},{"Title":"This movie is great for the teengirls!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In this movie I see a Britney very good, because she is so realist and better than other pop artist. The story is good, because this history is about the dreams of three teengirls and the friendly, and the love of teenage. "},{"Title":"The movie was good","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok. Maybe the story was too undeveloped, but if you go into the movie expecting to see this amazing well though out plot think again... It's just a fun movie I guess. It's funny, its entertaining, don't go hard on it just because you don't like Britney Spears. Britney Spears was amazing in the movie... people undercredit her too much. I expected a lot from her just by watching her on Saturday Night Live.. I got more. Taryn and Zoe where good too. "},{"Title":"very cute movie!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was cute and funny. My friend and I enjoyed it very much. All the singing made it really unique. The friendship between the girls grows as the movie goes on. I recommend seeing it with your friends. Don't miss the outtakes at the end of the movie during the credits either. "},{"Title":"A charming little movie","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am not Britney fan, but got a free pass to see this movie. I took my 70 year old aunt and we both went into the movie thinking it would be terrible.I can't say that Crossroads is a brilliant movie, but it was very watchable. Britney acted decently, and there were a few genuinely funny scenes. I ended up coming home and recommending the movie to my wife.I don't think there are any Oscar nominations coming, but overall Crossroads is a good movie. It is too bad that the movie will get trampled on just because it has a famous pop star in the lead role. It was certainly better than Slackers, and American Pie 2 and all the other tired teen movies that have been out recently.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think....","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Aside from a few oversights in the believability department, Britney Spears' initial foray into movie stardom is actually a charming little movie.  Britney need not worry about any Mariah Carey Glitter comparisons- Crossroads is not the mess that movie was at all.  Crossroads IS what it is... a teen road movie.  Parents with children under the age of 10-12 might want to skip this one for a few years.  Britney loses her virginity (not on screen), gets a little drunk, and even says a few curse words.  These are the things that actually make the movie more realistic.  Kim Cattrall literally has one two minute scene- why on earth she agreed to do this flick is beyond me.  She plays the woman who abandoned Britney at age 3, leaving Dan Aykroyd to raise Britney's character as a single Dad. No wonder Britney wanted to hit the road.Her co-stars turn in good, solid performances.  Although I'm happy that I got free passes to see a sneak preview- I wouldn't have felt that paying for a matinee of this flick would have been a ripoff.  If you've ever hummed along with a Britney hit, you'll surely find something to enjoy here.   "}{"Title":"Just like Britney, you either like it or hate it","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" In no way is Crossroads bad, but it's not very memorable.Just like Britney herself, you either like this movie or hate it. Personally, I enjoyed it, and was surprised at how sad it was. It was never meant to be an Oscar winner, or even be a critical darling, but it was made for Britney and for her fans. The movie itself is about a trio of girls that have grown apart, and grow close together again while going on a road trip. The acting is genuine, but a little stiff . Britney is not a bad actress, and this acting is far superior than some would like you to believe.The chemistry between the cast is good and it shows in the movie. If you HATE Britney Spears, well then obviously you aren't really gonna like a movie that was made for her. If you do happen to like Britney, then you most likely have already seen this movie, and thusly formed your own opinion.The movie does have many faults, and it's plot is kind of rushed and lethargic. Crossroads kinda lays it all on at the end, with a lot of bad things happening, that it seems kind of unbelievable.The movie tries to tackle too many issues that affect teenage girls, and it works to an extent...but it also comes across a little sappy.The thing that I really liked about the movie though, are the characters and the people that played them. Zoe Saldana, Anson Mounts, Taryn Manning, and Britney Spears really make the movie, and they were really the only characters that matter. I know the movie has limited appeal, but it's unfair to call it awful or the worst movie ever just because Britney Spears is in it and many people can't take her, and thusly this movie, seriously.I guess the bottom line is that if you like Britney, you may like it; if you don't care about her, then you won't care about this movie; and if you loathe her, you will loathe this movie. "},{"Title":"The scene with Britney dancing on the bed is worth the whole movie.","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" You can say all you want about this movie, but it's still great. Britney in her undies makes the difference.The plot is thin, the acting sucks, but the undies are great! The performances of I love rock and roll and such aren't great, not great at all. In fact, the are pretty crappy. But if you just turn off the sound, and just focus on the moves, then it all becomes a whole lot better.A road trip is also worth it weight in gold when you have three good looking gals riding in a convertible showing off their good looks. I'll advise you all to see this movie! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" The plot of this movie might not be that interesting, since it's just a fairly predictable, road-trip/feel-good movie, but all the horrible things people say about it aren't true.First of all Britney Spears doesn't suck at acting. Mariah Carey sucks at acting yes, Britney really doesn't. She's not a very experienced actress and she's not all that talented, but I've seen worse. She was believable and I actually enjoyed watching her play the part, so please cut the girl some slack! Don't think I'm a huge Britney Spears fan or anything, because let's face it she's not all that talented. Not when it comes to acting and not when it comes to singing.Second of all I think the entire reason critics and other people talked so bad about this movie was Britney. Just because she is in it, people paid more attention to it and they did everything they could to point out the bad things. Personally, I don't think that's fair, because the movie really isn't that bad.Third of all The love-story between Ben and Lucy was kind of sweet! He might be older than her, but...who cares?! They are sweet together and unbelievable story-lines like this occur in every movie, but somehow because Britney is in this movie, people say things about it, which brings me back to my previous point.So, basically the movie isn't that, Britney isn't that bad and it's just a nice movie to watch when there's nothing else on. Give it a try and you might not regret it. Especially teenage girls will enjoy this movie, I'm almost sure of that. "},{"Title":"A Britney Spears Movie","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I saw some of this movie and I was a little surprised. This movie got quite a few bad reviews, but I think a lot of that extended from the fact it was Britney Spears' movie. I'll admit, she's not really a good actress, but she wasn't horrible either. I have seen worse. This would be a good movie to watch on a rainy day or if you have nothing to do at all. Like I said, I didn't get to see all of the movie, but I did catch the part where Britney attempts to sing I Love Rock and Roll by Joan Jett and the Black Hearts. I really didn't care for that too much, and she should stick to her own bubble pop sugary songs...leave the classics to the original singers. "},{"Title":"The Doris Day of the 21st Century","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is good! It's got quite a good story line and Britney's very good in it. All round good performances from the supporting cast. It's quite enjoyable. I think if Britney does some more movies, with good writers and directors she could be a modern day Doris Day or Marilyn Monroe! She has quite a prescence about her. In some scenes of this movie there is a resemblance to Marilyn Monroe about Britney. There's a similarity that people like Madonna and Crossroads director Shonda has said on film, that she looks and acts like Marilyn. "},{"Title":"A great movie that received unjust bad reviews...","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was by far one of the best films portraying the stress teenagers must go through in their lives.  It also shows the changes that many go through from their teen years to mature adults... This film, in my opinion, was given bad reviews because critics were not giving Britney Spears a chance.  When I first heard the film was coming out, I had an open mind, but many were already criticizing the movie before they had the chance to see it.  The acting in this movie was comparable to that of Mandy Moore's in A Walk to Remember; however, Mandy Moore was given high reviews and praised for her performance.  Britney Spears was not.  I believe you should have an open mind when watching this film, and give Britney Spears a chance.  Kim Cattral was excellent in this movie along with Zoe Saldana and Taryn Manning.Although this movie did have some cliches' that many other teenage films have, I believe this movie had excellent acting, a great plot, and a great leading actress.   "},{"Title":"Sweet as candy","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is really sweet and naive. The plot is nothing new, but it's well written. There were only some parts that I didn't like. Actually only one part. Actors/actresses were great (and yes, all you Britney haters - she was just great!). "},{"Title":"better than most singers...","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although Britney's stunnningly sweet role in Crossroads was no different than how she is off the screen, I was impressed. It is not that often you see actresses jump into the movie scene and do this good. You see stars like Beyonce Knowles and Jennifer Lopez doing horrible on their first star movies but there was just something about Britney that made this a WOW movie.Besides all of the romantic and sexy scene, Britney showed all of her fans the true sweetheart she is. I would clasify this an excellent chick flick! I know many people out there might tend to have a grudge against Britney but this movie is sure to bring a smile to everyone's face! *12/10* "},{"Title":"Britney Spears did a great job...","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Alot of users have voted this movie a one. I do not understand that because I found this movie very interesting. For her first movie as the big star, Britney Spears was stunning! You see singers/songwriters like Beyonce Knowles do movies like Goldmember to ruin them! Austin Powers was good until Beyonce came into the scene. My point is Britney Spears was incredible and the little scene with her bra and panties was pretty satisfying. Britney Spears seemed like she wasn't even in character which made it look so realistic. This is a must see! "},{"Title":"Strike 2...","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Wow, what can be the odds that the only two movies ever made with the title crossroads(one was made in 1986), also happens to be the two worst movies ever?Amazing, I must confess that I went to see this movie because of all the massive critiscism that has been written about it. Unfortunately there is not words in the english language strong enough to display the pure vileness that is Crossroads.Britney Spears feels as sincere and genuine as she usually does in her videos, meaning that her performance could have been replaced with a Board with a sad face on it(that way we would at least had an facial expression).I rest my case, there is not enough room on the entire internet for me to express how bad this movie is.  "}{"Title":"It wasn't that bad","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I am a teenage girl and this is the kind of audience the movie is aimed at, therefore i didn't think the movie was that bad.  I think Britney Spears is a very talented singer/dancer and an OK actress but there is no denying she is no julia roberts. Seeing as this was her first leading role in a movie, you have to give her some credit and admit she didn't do too badly.  I mean come on does anyone remember glitter, now that was just a ridiculous movie (although Mariah has an amazing voice) so in comparison crossroads does have its good points.  Basically if you are a Britney fan you will love this movie, if you don't have any particular interest in her than you will probably hate it.But over all the movie was OK.  "},{"Title":"Not THAT Bad!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie has a real mixed bag of reviews.  For me, I really liked this movie.  It reminded me of a combination of Satisfaction & Waiting to Exhale with a teen spin on it.  Britney Spears demonstrated a great talent for acting in this film.  It's not a movie that is to be taken too seriously, it's just light entertainment.  The DVD offers a lot of great stuff for any Britney Spears fan.  If you like coming of age teen movies, this is a nice new entry for this genre. "},{"Title":"FUNNY, MOVING, REAL","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really liked the film. I am a Britney fan but even if she wouldn´t star the movie I would like it. It is quite funny and moving but it is quite real because this story can happen and I believe is happening to some young people in the world. Many people gave to this movie mark 1, I think they are people who haven´t seen this movie, they only don´t like Britney as a singer. GO ON Britney, U were great!!!!! "},{"Title":"This Is A Fantastic Movie!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This Is A Fantastic Movie. Britney Spears Is A Fantastic Actress. Many People Should Think That She Is Not Good But I Do. The Movie Has A Wonderful Story Too. It Is About Three GirlFriends Who Set Out On A RoadTrip To AdultHood And To Rekindle Old FriendShips. Yet Everything Is Not The Same As Their Young Years. Lucy (Britney Spears) Is The Unpopular Valedictorian. Mimi (Taryn Manning) Is The So Called Trailer Trash Because She Has Been Raped. And Kit (Zoe Saldana) Is The Sexy Popular Girl. Taking Away Their Diffences They Find What It Means to Truly Grow Up. This A Wonderful. Thought Even If It Is PG-13 There Are Alot Of Adult References And Innuendos So It Might No Be So Good For Young Children. talk To You Later! "},{"Title":"It wasn't that bad, folks","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't see how people can say that the movie was down right awful. I bet most of these people didn't even see it, or won't admit it was decent because it was Britney Spears.  A lot of people don't like her, either JEALOUS or just trying to be different.   Overall, the movie had a plot and it was kind of funny.  This movie was not perfect but it also was definitly not a 2.9. Get a Life! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I think this movie was absolutly outstanding and Britney put alot of effort in to make her real-life image forgotten, which she succeeded in!Bravo Britney "},{"Title":"what are people talking about?","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  what are people talking about. this movie was not bad at all. it had a real life story line and is so true in some cases. there was nothing wrong with britany's acting either. he music is very good to. listen to her words of music and they have a point along with the movie. plus ben was hot....(my name is barb) "},{"Title":"whoa","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  magnificent, oscar worthy. old guy with teen girls, inappropriate but excellent movie, a million trillion stars, so good it makes me tingly all over, i can honestly say that the only movie that might be better than this is jawbreaker, but other than that this movie is the best movie ever. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought that Britney did an excellent job!  I just adore her, she is so brave and beautiful!  I think that she is just wonderful!  And she pretty much proved that she can do it all through this movie!  I really didn't know what to expect when I went to see this movie, but it really impressed me!  I love it! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is such a sad story! I loved this movie. You don't have to like Britney. Everyone who made bad reviews on this movie only did it because they hate Britney and thats all they paid attention too. I hate Britney too but I LOVED this movie. It has such a great story. If you haven't seen this movie see it. It was really good.  "}{"Title":"One Of The Best","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Despite critical bashing, I thought Crossroads was one of the bestmovies I have ever seen, and I have seen quite a few movies. Alittle disappointed with a few of the scenes and how they went, butoverall it was good. I did think that Dan Aykroyd underacted in thismovie. He could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Why all the criticisim?","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'm not a little teenybopper and after seeing CROSSROADS, I found that I actually enjoyed it! I was entertained thoroughly seeing this movie. I think most of these negative reviews are coming from anti-Britney fans who didn't even bother to see the film and are just saying that Britney Spears is a terrible actress, which she is not. CROSSROADS is a film about friendship, hope, loyality, and finding yourself. In CROSSROADS, we meet Lucy (Britney Spears), Kit (Zoe Saldana - CENTER STAGE), Mimi (Taryn Manning - CRAZY/BEAUTIFUL), and Ben (Anson Mount - newcomer). Lucy, Kit, and Mimi were childhood best friends, but in high school, grew apart from each other and went their own separate ways. Lucy is the smart, valedictorian. Kit is the popular girl. And Mimi is known as the bad, trashy girl. After graduation, Lucy, Kit, and Mimi get back together and decide to go on a road trip to California. Lucy wants to find her mother (she lives with her very overprotected father, played by Dan Aykroyd), who lives in Arizona. Kit wants to see her fiance. And Mimi wants to become a singer. They hitch a ride with the mysterious Ben, whom Lucy falls in love with, and he comes along for the ride. Yes, there is teen drinking and some swearing in the film, and even a little love scene (they really only take off their shirts in that scene) and a few kisses. But basically that's it. It's not as bad as it seems. Plus, if you're really worried about your children seeing this, they rated it PG to be on the safe side. Even the script is okay, because the characters in this film are not perfect people leading perfect lives--they all have different problems that they have to resolve by the end of the movie. And let's face it we are going to have to deal with teen pregnancy, teen drinking and doing drugs, but I don't think CROSSROADS encourages any of it. And, I personally think Britney Spears is a great actress, singer, dancer, and role model. She doesn't give up on her dreams even though she knows there are tons of people out there always making remarks about her and dissing her and everything. That's why I think Britney's a great role model...not because of her clothes or the way she looks. You may disagree with me but this is just my opinion. Also, another thing don't ever listen to professional critics because they always bash teen movies--just look at what they did to Mandy Moore's A WALK TO REMEMBER and Mariah Carey's GLITTER--and I thought those were both excellent movies, too! So my whole point is, go see CROSSROADS. You don't need to be a Britney fan to enjoy this movie. I am not the hugest Britney fan, but I do appreciate her, respect her as a person, and I like her music. I can't wait for the DVD of CROSSROADS--I hope there will be some great special bonus features! See CROSSROADS and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not a bad effort at all in fact..","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought Britney did a great job! Anyone who says that she can't act has gone in their expecting her to be rubbish and not opened their eyes to what's actually on screen. She had me laughing and crying sometimes in the same place. The casting of Anson Mount as the leading man was an inspired choice and certainly carried off mysterious stranger to perfection, and Zoe Saldana and Taryn Manning as Lucy's two friends were superb. I did feel Dan Aykroyd and Kim Cattrall were a strange choice but actually weren't too bad.I went into the cinema expecting something easy to watch with not much storyline, what I got was an emotional journey that made me look at my own life in a completely different way. I've always been an admirer of Britney's but I wasn't getting my hopes up over her acting skills after reading so many poor reviews.. now I'm glad I went and I certainly won't be taking any notice of film critics any more.. no actually I will... I will go and see the films they tell me to miss!! "},{"Title":"It's a story about me...","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's 1100 am, I've just came from first show of Crossroads in Russia.Oh my God, it's the best film in this genre I've ever seen! Nature, love, freedom... What else you can wish? The world of my dreams... It's a pity I've never had such adventures. This film was like gates to dream for me. And even stupid laughing teens behind me could not spoil my impressions. Thank you, Brit, for taking me out of my gray life, at least for a while...Thanks... P.S. May be Britney is not good actress, but she did the job. She's a star and the common girl in the same time. "},{"Title":"Funny seeing you here...","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I'll admit that the Britney Spears movie was the last place in the world I expected to find myself earlier this afternoon.  I mean, I consider myself a girl with a good head on her shoulders, and also a little too old to fall into the traditional marketing scheme that this movie obviously is. Honestly, I expected it to be awful, I mean, truly awful.  I was dragged to it with MORE than low expectations, and was pleasantly surprised.  For one thing, this movie deserves cuteness points.  It really is the most precious thing I've seen in a while, and that's saying a lot, considering I do most of my TV watching with the 4 and under crowd.  But, Crossroads definitely had some cinematic merit as well.  While it was a little predictable, for my part, that only served to make me feel smart and on top of things.  The characters were pretty classic stereotypes, but not too over done, and made the movie easier to identify with, in the same sense as a farce is easy to laugh at because you know what to expect from the characters before they even open their mouths.  I did find myself rolling my eyes at some of the scenes, and the way that the director chose to convey some of his messages, but overall, the content of the movie wasn't horrible. My biggest complaint, however, is the focus on sex in this movie.  Now, I don't want to sound like an over protective mother (or grandmother) because I'm not, I'm a 16 year old girl and I like a good sex joke as much as the next teen, but the way sex was portrayed in Crossroads was still a little unsettling.  On the one hand, the dangers of unprotected sex, and sex too soon were addressed with Mimi's character, a pregnant teen.  But, on the other, 30 minutes into the movie, Britney and her lab partner are trying to loose their virginity, just so they won't be losers.  While she doesn't loose it then, Britney's character DOES make a big deal about having sex later.  I know it sounds old fashioned and stuffy, but that 4 and under crowd I was talking about earlier really tend to look up to people like Britney Spears, and I'm afraid that the whole sex subplot might have been a bad idea.  On the one hand, it's not so bad (I mean it IS a PG-13 movie, and it's just sex), but on the other hand, for most of the movie, Britney's character is the OBVIOUS role model (And when I say obvious, I mean it. She was the nice one, the grounded one, the good one, the talented one, the VALEDICTORIAN for crying out loud!) , and then she goes and does the deed. As a teenager, it doesn't bother (or even really phase)me, but if I was a mother (or even had a little sister) I might be really bothered by that. It was like Britney's character couldn't REALLY be happy or fulfilled until she wasn't a virgin any more.  I mean, why did that matter in the first place? "},{"Title":"Predictable, but Cute","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  First of all, I'm not really a die hard fan of Britney Spears.  I am a 24 year old teacher who enjoys romantic comedies, and this movie fell into that category for me.  Yes, it did address some teenage issues in a dramatic fashion, but mainly it was a feel good movie.  The characters were likeable and their friendship admirable.  The jokes were humourous and Anson Mount was a sweetheart.  Britney's acting wasn't worth an Academy award, but it was a great first effort.  The script was extremely predictable, but it didn't take away from the happy, youthful feeling that I left the theatre with.  I'm not ashamed to say that I really enjoyed this fun flick, not to mention the fact that Britney's song Not a Girl, Not yet a Woman has been replaying in my head for days. "},{"Title":"Alot better than expected!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went into this movie with a date and I wasn't happy about going to it. I was like why don't I forget everything about it and just watch it. As the movie started I was in denial because I was sitting in a movie that had a plot but some horrible horrible acting. As the movie kept going it dragged me into it. I really liked this movie. No movie can be as bad as 'Glitter' EVER!!!! Britney and the rest of cast did really well and Britney convinced me that she could act. I am going to see it again and Yes, I AM A GUY! All of the people (both guys and girls) that I have talked to liked it as well. You might be disappointed but I wasn't. I want to buy this movie. "},{"Title":"Separate yourself from Britney the singer - the movie works.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I went to this movie with no expectations surrounding Britney the singer (that was tough).  I let myself become engrossed in the characters, and if their performances pulled me out of that, so be it.  They didn't.  They were believable.  Their anguish at being trapped, facing loss and being disappointed by others was sincere.  It was reminiscent of John Cusack's and Ione Skye's Say Anything but more drama than comedy. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie was great!! Britney was actually acting like a teen and wasn't lil ms perfect. She had her hair messed up a few times and the make-up wasn't always perfect which made it more relaistic. The story line was great and I know I was able to relate to a lot of things and I am sure a lot of people were able to also. Britney's preformace was great and it wasn't fake. I loved the movie!!! Ben was hotttttttttttt and Kit and Mimi were awesome as well as Lucy!! I thought the movie was great!! "},{"Title":"Jealous People","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Hey. I thought it was a good movie, contrary to what other people might say. Like all the people who thought it sucked well, I think you're just jealous because she's probably a better, smarter, and classier person than you are. Well, sometimes we see what they show us on tv and we think its real life, well its NOT!! I mean, if you go to a Cinderella play and your daughter's Cinderella, you don't think that she's really going to have a fairy godmother do you? There was this one person who said that it was SOO horrible and that he felt sorry for the brainless young girls that want to go see it. Well, you know what? I have a friend and she LOVES Britney and SHE'S SMARTER THAN YOU ARE!!!!!!!!!!! I went to see that movie too and it wasn't bad. Britney did a good job (as usual) and the other people were good too. It wasn't predictable and badly-written as everyone says it is. On a scale of 1 to 10, I'd give it a 45. And everybody who hates her, I think you're jealous because she's famous and you're still stuck in the little town working at a donut shop. "}{"Title":"It was great, give Britney some slack!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought the movie was great!  Ok, so she is really a singer, but she did a darn good job in Crossroads...and Ben was hot =)  In all seriousness, Britney did a great job and I loved the movie!  go see it for yourself and have an open mind about it! "},{"Title":"Don't Let Britney Fool You!  It's actually a great film!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was a little skeptical going into Crossroads.  When Britney Spears in the star, you know you're going to be surrounded by teeny-boppers.  Yet, the movie really wasn't one for this pre-teen crowd.  I think that viewers really have to be in high school to at least have some understanding of the film.When I was in my senior year of high school a movie called Can't Hardly Wait hit theaters.  The movie depicts a high school graduation and the summer following.  I remember looking at this film and thinking, how do they know exactly what I'm going through?  Because everyone does, and the whole process of growing up really occurs between the ages of 18-22, that's the time when we discover who we really are and what we really want out of life. Crossroads has a lot of the same themes.I'm 21 and a senior in college- graduating in May!  And, even though Crossroads depicts a group of friends who have just graduated from high school, the feelings are the same.  People seem to make fun of the lyrics, I'm not a girl but not yet a woman...  But it's so true and real. Whether coming out of high school or college, it's like Oh My God, that's the real world!  But the truth is, I'm not a girl, I'm not a kid, but at the same time, I'm not a grown-up yet either.  Yet, come May I'll be looking for a real job in the real world.  And, now's the time when I think and try to figure everything out.  Sifting through my fears and hopes and dreams and trying to find who I am and where I'm going.  And meanwhile realizing that I didn't get any more out of college than an education- I didn't ever really have fun or just act wild or let myself go.  This movie makes me want to get a group of friends together and take a crazy roadtrip!To the pre-teen crowd, sure the song sounds silly.  And the same crowd (especially the young boys) are thrown by Britney's belly shots and dancing in her underwear.  But these kids have no concept of many of the mature themes in the film- drinking, rape, sex.  I can't see taking a ten year old to this film and having to explain what happened to Mimi and how she got pregnant.Anyway, I just wanted to tell everyone- DON'T LET BRITNEY FOOL YOU!  The film has a powerful message and explores all the fears and desires we all experience during the real years of growing up.   "},{"Title":"Movie Rocks!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It was a good movie! I'm not kidding, it has comedy, some hot & steamy Britney scenes, and gets a bit emotional at the end.A very good movie, worth watching! "},{"Title":"it made me a better fan","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  it was such a great movie . it showed sides of Britney that i have never seen before  the real part. I'm sick of listening to all those critics, i don't care what they think anyway ; Singers don't have HUGE hits with their first movies... so give her a break, she's just doing something new! She and her co-stars did a great job . i hope to see more from her acting soon ( next Austin Powers P ) "},{"Title":"this movie is the best. crossroads rocks!!!","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" i seen this movie a lot of times because it is the best movie ever. i am Britney spears #1 fan. i went to go see this movie three times when they were showing it in the theaters. i can watch this movie forever . i love it. a lot of people say that it sucks. just because Britney spears is in it. they are just jealous because Britney spears nows how to sing and act. they wish they could be her.all you haters out there just leave Britney spears alone. all of my friends they don't even like Britney spears and they loved the movie. Britney spears nows how to sing and act. don't be saying that she doesn't know how to act because she does now how to sing and act. she is the best singer ever and actress. i will always be Britney spears # 1 fan.she is the best.i know all of her songs and i have all of her CD's and DVD's. i love her.i think that everybody should go get this movie and see it over and over and over again.when people ask me what is my favorite movie i say crossroads and they say i love that movie. best movie ever.i give it a 100 stars. over the top. "},{"Title":"for people who voted ones... grrrrrr.....","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Lemme just tell you. This movie Portrays real life, except that you know, it has Britney spears in it. For all of you who voted ones, what are you, old? (that's like 30+ years for me) Maybe you voted it ones because you don't remember what being young is like, well let me refresh your memory. People at school expect you to party and have fun, but still not go overboard. Guys want you to hook up with them, and if you don't, he'll break up with you. If you do, he'll still break up with you, and then tell everyone that you're a slut. Your parents try to help out, but in reality, the reason we don't tell them anything is because they make it 10 times worse. They also expect you to get great, really great,grades. They want you to have fun, but when you want to go out, they won't let you because It's not that we don't trust you, we don't trust anyone else... and then there's the whole In my day we never.... andYou're never going to get in College if you keep that up.... Sopeople, before you knock the movie, consider how it portrays life. "},{"Title":"Crossroads inspired me to follow my dreams.","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This movie totally rocks,you guys can't appreciate good work when you see it. Then again I am an ongoing Britney Spears fan and will forever think that. This movie deals with real issues and that is one of the things that I love about it. So, good night. P.S. If I could chose any movie to watch over and over again, it would be a tie between Crossroads and Beaches (Bette Midler, Barbara Hershey). They are my two favorite movies and honestly, I'm not sure I could choose just one to watch. The cast did a great job on this movie and I think Britney did an excellent job picking this script for her first movie. I just wish that you can see the love and hard work she put in to it as I have. So, I beg you, watch it again and have an open mind. Cause she says on the DVD that she can kind of relate to Lucy. And so can I. "},{"Title":"This movie was a perfect fit!!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I could not support this movie more. I thought it was a great story line and had plenty to tell.I loved it and now own the DVD I cant get enough of it.For Britneys' first movie I think she did really well. She did the best she could and thats all she can do. I give her plenty of props. GO BRIT!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Worth the effort to see, it'll give you a better perspective on life","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  My best friend and I decided to go and see Crossroads because there were no other good movies on... it was the best decision we made... despite the fact that most people judge the movie because Britney Spears stars in it, it is worth the effort... it gave my best friend and I and whole new look on our friendship, we're making a wish box to treasure all our memories of our fun times together... apart from the friendship genre, the romantic is even better, it tells you that people can turn up unexpected and they are the right person for you... don't judge them before you know them, otherwise you won't have any time to love them...Enjoy the movie... I'm sure you'll love it if you don't already... ...God Bless You, ...Angel! "},{"Title":"The Script Needed Work, but Britney can act!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok, ok...the script needed work, the story plot was pretty boring and it was too serious at times. Although this movie (in my opinion) is OK It needed more comedy or something in it. I was just not feeling the movie most of the time. It's too bad really, because Britney Spears (although many of you disagree) can act, its just that the script does her no justice! I mean have any of you seen Lance try acting in his movie On The Line or Mariah Carey in Glitter,? If you think Britney Spears can't act...then think again!  "}{"Title":"Why The Low Mark?","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" This film in my eyes is amazing. It shows a lot of aspects that people face in life. From good ordeals to really bad ones. And the cast along with the director tackle these in a professional and engaging manner.Being her debut movie Britney does a terrific job and gives an outstanding performance throughout, unlike Mariah's performance in Glitter. The rest of the cast make the film an enjoyable one with a good storyline and lots of laughter throughout.This film shouldn't be critized because it's really good and people should understand this. So think before giving it a low mark because it doesn't deserve a 1. "},{"Title":"Girlyness -)","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" K if you are expecting to be sitting on the edge of your seats don't get this movie. BUT this is such a CUTE movie!!!!!! I am a major Britters fan so that's one reason I loved it so much. I think it has a very realistic plot to it that girls can relate to. The acting isn't the BEST but it's not expected to be is it? But being as this is her first movie - I thought she did pretty good! It's just a type of movie you watch with your buds on a Friday night and just enjoy being together. This movie shows Brit's funny side - and who doesn't want to see that?! Come on! Plus the guy in the movie is super cute! I loved it -) I wish Brit could come out with more movies. "},{"Title":"Good Movie.","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I will not say that this movie deserves a 10, but much less a 3. The 45% of the voters have given it a 1/10... Are you crazy? What has done the good of Britney? Just because she is a pop star don't mean that she is a bad actress. Is a lovely movie from a lovely girl. With their concerns and their good times. A girl that tries to discover her fate and her life sense. Fortunately, Britney is much smarter than many of you and your opinion have no care for her. She knows has made a good movie and that's more than enough for her. You can take you all of the hand and go to Disneyland to see Mickey Mouse. I'll stay with Britney... In Spain the film is known as Crossroads Until the End. I say the same... I love you, honey. "},{"Title":"You idiots need to get a life!","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I LOVED THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Seriously, Britney Spears was acting good for her age at the time, and so were everyone else! I've been a Britney fan ever since I can remember, but I honestly think this is acting at it's best! The plot was great, the wholesome message was perfect for Spears, and this movie should've gotten an Oscar! If you look at it from Britney fans' eyes, you'll realize what we mean. Even my friends, who hate anything Britney Spears, like this movie. This movie should at least get an average rating of 5/10. So, if I were you, I'd changing that 1/10 to at least 5/10. Please, do this for the world, and most importantly, for Britney! "},{"Title":"Crossroads","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" From Razzie nominated director Tamra Davis (Billy Madison), this was the acting debut from the teenage singing sensation (and often train wreck) pop star, I had to give her a chance. Basically three best friends in childhood get together and bury a box to open for a pact, they will open it at midnight the day they have graduated high school. Of course when they have grown up and are attending high school, Lucy Wagner (Razzie winning Britney Spears), Kit (Zoë Saldana) and Mimi (Taryn Manning) have parted ways, but they do keep their pact, opening the box and striking up a conversation. One of the girls says she plans to go to a record contract singing audition, so they decide to all go on a road trip together to get there, with a guy named Ben (Anson Mount) driving, and not much money. They suspect Ben killed someone and went to prison for it, but he straightens things out, and they earn some much needed money with Lucy singing. On the way to the audition, Lucy also visits mother Caroline (Kim Cattrall) who she hadn't seen for years, only to be told she was an accidental and originally unwanted child. Of course Lucy's father Pete (Dan Aykroyd) isn't happy with everything she has been up to, and tries to make sure she is back home, but in the end he lets her get on with her own thing, and they do reach the audition in the end. Also starring Die Hard 4.0s' Justin Long as Henry. You can't help but like Spears in the leading role, and her singing in the film comes in handy too, I will admit some of the film is cheesy and more for the teenage and girlie audience, but it is a fine comedy drama (near road movie). It won the Razzie for Worst Original Song for I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman (I like it), and it was nominated for Most Flatulent Teen-Targeted Movie, Worst Original Song for Overprotected (I like it), Worst Screen Couple for Spears and Whatever-His-Name-Was, Worst Screenplay and Worst Picture. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"I Honestly Enjoyed This Movie!","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I'm in a theater class. And this is Britney's first movie role. Everyone has to start somewhere. Sure Britney doesn't do the best of acting in this movie, but she sure gives her character Lucy Wagner justice. I think that this, much like most of Madonna's movies, was intended for Britney's target audience. This is definitely a chick flick. There's no doubt. But the movie is intended more for a teenage audience. Because I am so young, I think I could relate and it really got me into it when watching this film. I liked it. It sends a positive message to teenagers out there. And in general, sometime we all have to grow up, and this movie definitely shows that. Sure this movie might be somewhat corny, but like I said it's a chick flick, which ones aren't. In general if I had to some this movie up in 3 words I would say Real, Emotional, and Fun. "},{"Title":"Loved It; Don't Care What Anyone Else Says","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Oh my God, everyone, it wasn't that bad! I myself happen to be a 'die-hard' Britney fan, have been for YEARS now, and I'm 15, so it's obviously not a phase. GET OVER IT. Some people do like her, because she DOES have talent, more so than /some/ other people out there. State your opinions as opinions and not facts, because face it, everyone thinks differently and you're opinions most likely aren't facts. Sorry to burst your bubble.This movie had both a good side and a bad side to it. It was based on what can happen to teens in real life (pregnancy, drinking, date rape, the works.) Though it was rather unrealistic at times. Like as people have stated before me, when Ben wrote the music for Lucy's song (which is one of Britney's best songs, in my opinion) and she immediately sang it perfectly.Agree? Disagree? I'd love to hear. tweetybaby1024@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"Roller-coaster of Emotions","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Crossroads was a touching account of a young girls dreams and her transition into womanhood. It covered a number of topics from teenage pregnancy to the pressures of losing your virginity in society today. We feel that the movie can be improved upon in a few minor ways such as the casting of Whoopi Goldberg as Britney's long lost mother. We also felt that it was unrealistic that Britney lost her virginity at a open window on the beach but who we are to cast stones. The perm featured in the karaoke scene seemed a tad unlikely as it just sprung from nowhere...who knows? Maybe Britters stuck her finger in a plug socket!! Also the DVD edition has a wide array of extra features which are essential for hours of britilicious entertainment. Bring on the Oscar, Britney deserves an Academy Award. "},{"Title":"anyone else","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" you know, had this film starred anyone else, it probably would end up with a rating of about 5 or 6 out of 10that said, had this film starred anyone else it probably would have been reached the top ten of the box office (it debuted at no.2)or landed this much attention.what does that say?That Britney's star power made this film both a success and a failure. People watched it because of her, people talk about it because of her and people judge it far too harshly because of her. The film is predictable stuff, but what isn't? The acting is not that bad, Britney is able to squeeze out empathy in one scene and her character is charming, albeit too syrupy. The film itself doesn't tread too harsh a territory but it shouldn't have too. Anyone else, and people would possibly praise it, and forgive its unoriginality. But then, had this been anyone else, you wouldn't be reading this. "},{"Title":"it was tasteful, artistic. (= i enjoyed it.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I personally enjoyed Crossroads immensely, and I had no reason not to. The reason most viewers didn't enjoy the movie was because the age gradient wasn't in their area. This is a movie for young teenagers; this movie represents the very problems teenagers today in America face. And if you aren't familiar with these situations, then maybe you might not have enjoyed it, as much as someone who does. It truly is a wonderful movie, though I don't suggest watching it with your parents. Maybe your girlfriends or a close-to-age sister. I watched it today and for the 4th time. The laughs are still funny. The music is still wonderful. And the actors are still excellent. It is definitely one of my favorite movies, and I strongly suggest that you watch it, especially if you haven't seen it. If you have, watch it again! It's a good movie. "}{"Title":"It was good enough!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Britney Spears i have to admit isn't the best actor i have seen on TV but it was a fair attempt.The film is about 3 friends Kit, Mimi, and Lucy. They bury there childhood treasures and agree to dig it up on the night of there school prom.However over the years their friendship broke up, but they still turned up to where they buried the treasures. Mimi was going on a road trip to audition for a song competition and asked for the others to come. Lucy went to see her mother who left her when she was a child and Kit went to see Dillian her fiancée.On the road trip a lot of bad stuff happens to each person which i wont say as i don't want to spoil it for people that want to give the film a go. They are there for each other through these hard times and eventually their friendship arose again and they become the best of friends.It is a very sweet movie and it does have potential.Although it has got some very bad ratings i enjoyed it, there were no boring scenes or really bad acting so i think that you should give it a go. Look for the message in the movie as well because it will make the film a lot more understandable. "},{"Title":"I love Brittany","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I love Brittany Spears. I mean REALLY love her, not like these crazy obsessed fans that think they do. I REALLY, REALLY love her.That's why I was very pleased that this film was coming out, as I love her so much that I like just watching her. I used to really like my ex girlfriend Shelley and even brought some night vision goggles so that I could watch her when she was asleep. But she got this court injunction taken out, and her dad's an ex Royal Marine who told me that &#145;I wasn't right in the head' and had to leave her alone.Actually, when I say that he told me that, I really mean that he inferred it by punching me out of her bedroom window and into their greenhouse. The guy's an idiot! I could easily have climbed down the rope I'd used to get in. This film is all about the lovely, friendly, talented and beautiful Brittany Spears and some others who drive to LA and have adventures along the way. Sometimes, Brittany doesn't wear many clothes. The reason that I love Brittany is that I know she loves me and we will get married. How do I know? Well, I'm not some crazy fan who just thinks she does, I had a dream about it. But it wasn't a normal dream, it was a very vivid dream, almost like our minds had merged and we were &#145;as one'. Sometimes I dress like Brittany as well.I am glad that this film is unpopular, as I don't want other people looking at Brittany. She's mine.  "},{"Title":"What a Surprise!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  In my opinion, Britney Spears is all body and cannot sing.  I was so surprised that not only did she show the best of her singing and acting talents in Crossroads but she did it quite well.Crossroads is a cutesy movie about 3 young friends who make a pact to review their lives at midnight on the day of their graduation from HS.  By the time graduation rolls around, they have out grown one another.  Each is at a crossroad in their life.  They get a gorgeous hunk only one of them knows to drive them cross country in pursuit of answers.I loved the fact, despite 2 girls are white and 1 black, that there was no mention of race or any prejudices in the movie.  It was a story that treated everyone pretty equal, except they played Britney up as the lead singer.  I don't know why viewers rated this movie poorly.  It was a nice semi-quasi, escape from the fast pace, violence, and sex we see all the time.  Basically, it is a feel good movie and Britney was pretty good.  "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" OK so I was sitting around bored out of my mind while I was house-sitting for a friend when I came across the title crossroads. I then thought to myself, hmm isn't that the really crappy movie Britney Spears made before she went complete bat S**t?? so then I decided since the NFL network isn't showing anything of relative importance, id give this film a look. After I watched the full 93 minute movie from beginning to end, I couldn't help but think Well this isn't THAT bad. Yeah, it is really cheesy in some sorts and kinda dim-witted but it wasn't that bad of a movie. I know the thought of the incredibly hot Britney Spears playing a shy, valedictorian, good girl is kinda odd to see but hey its Hollywood. I thought it was kinda odd seeing Chris Evans playing two marvel characters in the human torch and captain America but like I said its Hollywood. Well anyway back to Crossroads, this movie wasn't that bad. I was entertained and I thought the ending was kinda good. I've seen a lot worse movies than this like Glitter and From Justin to Kelly for example and Crossroads was noway as worse or worser than those abominations. "},{"Title":"Give Britney a break, its a great movie","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Okay I don't know why everyone is bashing Britney for this movie I think it was really good! This is her first acting role guys she was great for her first movie. This movie is not at all as bad as everyone said It was. As a girl whos used to singing all the time she was Amazing I am definitely looking forward to seeing her in more movies. Its not boring at all it was pretty interesting. Though it is more of a girls movie I'm a guy and I love watching Britney Spears dance around in her underwear and watch her lose her virginity like come on! What guy dosn't????? No seriously though it wasn't that bad go see it. Like what did you expect her to be Marilyn Monroe or something?? She was AMAZING for her first movie. I like this movie its cool. And it deals with subjects teenagers go through everyday. Very realistic "},{"Title":"An enjoyable and entertaining film","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I've seen a lot of films, good and bad, and this movie is definitely not bad. I was taken aback to see what a low rating it received on IMDb. Britney was surprisingly talented as an actor. She was very natural. Her friends played their roles perfectly.I'm a Woody Allen fan, and for those of you who are too (though I somehow doubt too many Woody fans will be reading this review), watch this movie and look for the scene where Britney and her nerdy lab partner are about to lose their virginities (preemptively) and the guy douses himself with baby-powder... that scene is a nod to the scene in Woody Allen's Bananas, and the kid even stammers and jokes in a very Woody Allenesque sort of way. So that makes me think that there were decent writers behind this script- hence it's a good movie.The movie is also genuinely funny. The plot is very cohesive, and the dialogue is very real. I am not ashamed to say I liked this movie. It was better than most movies that are put out today- which are lame, cliché, wannabe indie pieces of trash. This movie will probably go down in cult coming-of-age film history. "},{"Title":"Give the movie a chance","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't see why this movie has been given such a low rating. There are tons of movies on this site with such higher ratings when some where no better than this one. I thoroughly enjoyed this film, yes I do like Britney and am a fan, but I still thought the movie was good. There are tons of 'chick flicks' like this one which people love but hate this one just because Britney is in it. Well if you don't like her and think the movie is going to be rubbish and you go with that attitude then you're hardly open for any other opinion are you. Even if the movie was out of this world you'd still say it was awful. No the film isn't worthy of an Oscar but I did really enjoy it and thought the storyline was good. The acting wasn't bad in my opinion, not great but still. If Britney hadn't been in the film then half of many people wouldn't have gone to see it but it wouldn't have received the bashing it has either. I definitely recommend seeing it if you're actually going to give it a chance. 10/10  "},{"Title":"a wonderful movie","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  CrossRoads is a very great movie, from my point of view, i don't know why that many people attacked the movie calling it the worst movie ever. but infact i guess that the main reason for attacking the movie is Britney Spears, i guess the people were expecting something else from her, although she acted very good, and the story was really great. i guess that this attack is happens usually when a great singer turns to acting people expects from him or her, a movie that rocks. but to tell the truth it was not fair all the attacking on the movie, because the movie is really good. The love Story in the movie is amazing and the cast is great, and Britney Rocks. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Watch out Mariah Carey! There's a new star in town and her name is Britney Spears. Wow! Her performance was amazing! Oh my god! She was so great as Lucy Wagner. Wow! Anyways Lucy is a straight-A student who is is a virgin who decides to lose her virginity with her lab partner. She is so great in this movie! Her songs included I Love Rock 'N' Roll, Overprotected, I'm Not A Girl, Not Yet A Women which are featured on her 3rd album self-titled BRITNEY. If you haven't seen it you really should if you like Anson Mount or Justin Long. But one part in particular where Mimi falls down the stairs and loses her baby. Anyways as the Tagline says Dreams change but Friends are Forever "},{"Title":"The movie is more appealing to girls.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  OK, so many don't like the film.  I did... a bit.  I would understand that guys might not like it.  Guys, the only bit you're going to like is when the dude, the driver, chucks a fit because he can't stand the girls. I found myself relating to film which is probably why I found it OK. "}{"Title":"Britney is great!","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I seen Crossroads the day it came out in theaters and I have to add that this movie is great. Her acting is great, and the plot is as well. I have new respect for Britney Spears and I am amazed at her wonderful talent. This movie should not be in the bottom 100. I think the only reason people bash this movie is because Britney Spears stars in the movie and all the Britney haters come and make lame excuses to give this movie a bad rating. "},{"Title":"The New Doris Day!....","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  The Doris Day of the 21st Century!...This movie is quite good. It's got quite a good story line and Britney's reasonable in it. All round good performances from the supporting cast (Taryn Manning from 8 Mile,Crazy/Beautiful,White Oleander and the upcoming Cold Mountain with Renee Zellweger, Nicole Kidman and Jude Law, also in it is Zoe Saldana from Pirates Of The Caribbean, Kim Cattrall from Sex And The City, Anson Mount from City By The Sea with Robert DeNiro and Dan Akroyd from Ghostbuster, Blues Brothers etc).          (Fact=Anson Mount wasn't sure about doing a Britney movie but Robert DeNiro said 'Why Not? She's Great!' and he decided to do it!=Robert's a Britney fan!)         It's quite enjoyable, some bits are funny even when they're not meant to be!-like the 'sad' bits. I think if Britney does some more movies, with good writers and directors she could be a modern day Doris Day or Marilyn Monroe! She has a strong prescence about her. In some scenes of this movie there is a resemblance to Marilyn Monroe about Britney. There's a similarity that people like Madonna and Crossroads director Shonda has said on film, that she looks and acts like Marilyn.          Britney will next be seen in Nascar movie Trading Paint which she's producing, and is in talks to star in X-Men 3, the next Die Hard (as Bruce Willis' daughter!) and the movie version of Dukes Of Hazzard as Daisy Duke alongside Ashton Kutcher and Paul Walker.  "},{"Title":"Why so poorly rated??!!","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I am not ashamed to say that I love this movie. Its cute, funny and touching. Maybe its not the most artistic or dramatic movie but its not trying to be. I'm not going to sit here and argue that Britney is a really talented actress or whatever but shes not bad, shes believable in her character. The other cast members are great too, Zoe Saldana gives a truly powerful performance and was definitely the star of the film.I think the reason for the low rating is because of Britney spears. The minute this movie came out people got the idea into their head that Crossroads was going to be a bad attempt into making Britney a triple threat. News Flash Britney was ALWAYS a triple threat and this movie just proves her potential. Yes, no one can deny that Crossroads was used as publicity for Britney's 2002 album but if you just look beyond that, there is so much more to this movie!! Crossroads inspires you to follow your dreams and the underlining message of this film is that friendship can over-come anything.Don't make me do what she did. Don't make me run. Just let me go "},{"Title":"Lovely, lovely, lovely! Oh, have I already said lovely three times? Guessed I loved it so much!","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Aww...I loved this movie! It was really good! Ignore the critics, you will be surprised by this enchantment! Wow! I'm surprised at Britney! She can really act! And her performances were stunning! This movie just brings be back so much of when I was little! I used to love it and watch it all the time!It gives you a mixture of feelings, it makes you laugh, wonder and even cry! Rent this movie for the sleepover or whatever! Just enjoy! )You'll love it! "},{"Title":"Really NOT that bad! it's bubblegum anyway so what are we complaining?","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" So much bad news about this movie my whole family actually forbid me from renting it. (just leave let's catch it in the cinema out already) So yeah all dis while I will simply waltz passed it every time picking up videos for our girls video night-out.Then last week I saw this faithful DVD again just hanging there to dry so out of curiosity I decided to give it a shot. I am not much of a Britney's fan BUT I don't hate her. I do admire her for being so young and achieving so much (I am including all her bad scandalous achievements mind you!!).I personally think this movie IS a teen bubblegum movie so really IT IS suppose to be trashy. With all the cheesy hate-love family-best friends turned bad problem plot, typical story line with typical dialog... but hey people!!! guess what?? I think if we were to compare it with GLITTER of Mimi I think our girl here is doing pretty good!.It's not the best teenage bubblegum love movie ever but I do think we have to appreciate the courage... OK.. maybe I should say GUTS. Way to go Brit!!! Don't do drug!!! and here's a 4/10 from me!!! "},{"Title":"not too bad","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  Britney Spears's debut role wasn't too bad, as she and her two best friends set out to find themselves and other things in a road trip, following up on a pact they had made when they were ten. While she probably won't win an Oscar, Brit wasn't too bad and I thought the movie was decent.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Identity seeking trip across the country","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" It's a nice country when couple of friends can drive across the country, while enjoying the ride and enjoying the trip. A movie like this could only have made in America.There's not much going on in this movie. Just four people taking the trip across America together, but its not a bad movie. There should be at least one movie that depicts such perfect mixture of civilization, wilderness, adventure, and carefree life, and this one is it. This is early part of Britney Spears' career, and she's beautiful. She heads to Tucson to see her mother, but her mother already has another family, and she's not exactly welcomed. So she goes back to her friends. She's heartbroken, but consoled by her friends, she carries on. Then she find that music is her true calling.This movie might be getting low ratings unfairly because Brtney Spears is the star, but it's really a good movie, and the producers did a quality production that aged well. One caveat is that I'm in agreement with what the father said, because the way they did things were haphazard, and would have been dangerous. It would have ended up in one sort of trouble or another (which they did).Even if you're not a Britney Spears fan, this is a good movie to see, and if you are a Britney Spears fan, then this is a must see for sure. "},{"Title":"Loved it as a child","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" this used to be my favourite movie when i was little, i used to adore it, of course if you're an adult you probably wouldn't enjoy it, but when i was ten, i really did. I'm not a fan of Britney Spears, I never have been, but I always really liked the movie and storyline, but sinceI haven't watched it in awhile, I'm not too sure I would still like it,I might watch it sometime soon just to remind me of old times lmao. I really didn't like Britney Spear's cover of 'I love rock 'n' roll' at all, but I still liked the movie, don't be so harsh on it! it's not supposed to be a masterpiece. Or for adults to enjoy for that matter! It's really just a feel good, tweenager/kids movie. That is all ( "},{"Title":"Surprising... very surprising....","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie surprised me.  When i first heard about it, i thought Yay, another 'pop queen' trying to be a 'triple threat' in the entertainment business.  I didn't see it until recently, and i found that it wasn't too bad after all.  Britney was a pretty good actress, and so was everyone else... it was shocking.  I'll have to admit... i cried at the end... '( I'm not afraid to admit it!!!! I CRIED DURING CROSSROADS!!!!!!  It was a very good movie.  Being an actress, i appreciated the hard work that i could tell was done.  The characterizations seemed accurate, there was nothing that screamed STUPID!  in the entire movie.If i had the chance to see this movie again, i'd take it.  It was an empowering movie about achieving dreams.  It kind of encouraged me to keep following my dreams.  (YAY!  I got inspired by a teen movie!!!!!!!!)  "},{"Title":"I kind of liked it. Decent for what it was. Come on guys, isn't your immature hate for Miss Spears going to the extreme here with the undeserving 2.9 rating?","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" (Credit IMDb) Three friends get together and bury a box making a pact to open it at midnight at their high school graduation. In the little town in Georgia that they live in, things soon change. One is little miss perfect, one is an engaged prom queen, and the other is a pregnant outcast. The night of graduation, they open the box and they strike up a conversation. All of a sudden, one brings up the topic of her going to Los Angeles for a record contract audition. They all decide to go together and they leave. With a little money, they set out on the road with a guy named Ben. When one of them tells the other a rumor that he might be a homicidal maniac they are all scared of him. When they reach LA, Lucy (Britney Spears) falls in love with Ben and against her father's wishes, she stays and she goes to the audition.This isn't going to win any awards, it has many flaws, but come on, they were aiming for a nice feel good movie, and I felt they did an adequate job of it. Britney wasn't great, but she certainly didn't stink up the screen either. Its obvious bias towards people you hate half of the time, why should that reflect your views on the movie? It's a road movie, Britney made it for fun, and you put it on the bottom 100 list? Bit much if you ask me. I liked the emotion riding from the scene where Britney and her Mom encountered, it was emotional and saddening. I also thought Britney, Zoe, and Manning had great chemistry with each other. It's far from a great movie, but it has its moments, give it a break.Performances. Britney Spears should never be confused with an Emmy award winning actor, but she held her own for a first timer performer. She's likable, cute as a button, and managed to convince. That was more then enough for me. Zoe Saldana is gorgeous, but her character really pushed my buttons. Her It's all about me Really rubbed me the wrong way. She did a good job though. Taryn Manning has the best character here. She goes into darker territories with herself, and she did a convincing job. Dan Arkoyd appears in a few scenes, and felt out of place. Justin Long appears in a role i'm sure he likes to quickly forget.Bottom line. It's a decent movie, and dare I say rather fun? I will indeed. I have seen a lot worse then this, believe me. It's a good daytime movie, when there is nothing else to watch. Yes, worth a look6/10 "}{"Title":"A fair first effort from overly scrutinized Britney","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":"  I was amazed to learn that almost 50% of people who have rated Crossroads think this film merits a 1/10 score. It is by no means a classic or even average for that matter but I think a lot of the vitriol for this film has to do with Britney Spears being the star. For whatever reason many people resent her. Many do so because they perceive that she has marginal talent and has only been given the opportunities she has because of her undeniable good looks (I think her vocal prowess could be better but she is a commanding stage performer; then again would anyone buy her albums if she didn't look the way she does?) All that aside, I think this film will also have considerable less mass appeal because it has been so intensely targeted towards girls in the 10-17 age group. It is difficult for other members of the viewing public to identify with the three main characters. I don't fall into the target audience but I thought Britney did a fair job given the material she had to work with. I think the film could've been improved if they trimmed or eliminated some of the other story lines and focused more on Britney's. For instance it would have been interesting to actually see her mother in essence reject her instead of just the aftermath to that event. My score 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Let's face it...","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Let's face it, the only reason you guys are rating it so low it because you all don't like Britney Spears. I love this movie and I grew up watching it. If Britney wasn't in it, i'm pretty sure it wouldn't be as trashed. I happen to like Britney's performance in this film. The movie is funny, sad, emotional, serious. Britney is real and plays her character greatly. Zoe Saldana is really funny throughout the film and just cracks me up big time. The girl who plays Mimi is real and just a character who reminds me of my people I know. She's also really funny and a crack up too. This film is great and greatly acted and really really funny and sometimes sad. 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of my all time favourite","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" Although i love Britney spears, I also love this movie. It teaches girls lessons and how you have to come clean and live as a teenager/young woman. Britney Spears is very talented. I would say this movie is one of the best movie's i've ever seen. whoever judges this film, should keep quiet and not post any comments because they're Britney haters. I love this movie and i recommend it, especially for young adults. Crossroads sort of taught me a lesson. Live your dream, don't be scared to do what you want to! Live your life! I recommend this movie because it's a wonderful movie. Come on, who wouldn't love it? I can watch this movie over and over again for how amazingly good it is. Awesome road trip movie. If you like romance, comedy, drama and music this is the movie to watch. Go grab it in the stores and buy it right now! BUt this movie should be only as good if you're a big fan of Britney! which i am.. But still.. go ahead and buy it.................... now!) awesome movie<3 "},{"Title":"Really good story","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. Its theme and moral of the story are very clear throughout and Britney's acting was actually pretty good in it. Im surprised she's not doing any other movies, because she has a very natural ability. The music choices was very smart. Even though the songs were off her album, the songs fit in to the story extremely well and seemed realistic. Anson Mount(Ben) was super hot in it, Zoe Saldana(kit) played the mean girl part well, but was still very likable. Taryn Manning(Mimi) was just simply cute and easily to laugh at. Kim Cattrall wasn't in the movie very much, and I didn't like her part very well. I think she could have played her role out a little more likable. I didn't believe her character. However Britney was very believable and that's all the matters! "},{"Title":"Loved this film!","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Music","Review":" I loved this film. I love Britney, always have done and thought the acting in this was great, the plot was a easy one to figure and the problems that came up were just right for what goes on in peoples lives. I think those that knew it was going to be bad and then slate it should really ask themselves why they watched it at all. its clear if you hate someone so much in this case Britney it doesn't matter how good the film is, its bad because Britney spears is in it, which is ridiculous. The film isn't about her, its about 3 teenagers who go on a road trip and have fun. I loved it because it has a great story to it, its one that can be repeated over and over and not get bored of and is one to watch on a girlie night with popcorn  Britney is just great. "}]