[{"Title":"Extremely affective tale about being seventeen","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"27 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Browsing through some of the previous comments, it seems many viewers take the movie primarily as an allegory of class clash in Beijing. While the movie does state the contrast with emphasis, it's much more interesting as a story about teens. The title translates literally to seventeen years' bicycle.The story is just that. Guo is a young man who earned a bicycle and promptly has it stolen. Through luck and perseverance, he finds it in the possession of Jian, a high school student. Trouble ensues.I grew up in Taiwan, and I remember kids doing incredibly cruel things to each other. Not so much gunning down classmates but there were plenty of physical and emotional violence. This movie is a powerhouse of insight into the psyche of teenagers. Contemporary Hollywood pumps out teenage movies by the dozen each year, and most simply gloss over the amount of pain and awkwardness adolescence can bring. Beijing Bicycle, on the other hand, can serve as an instructional manual for any high-school bully wannabes on how to reduce the stammering geek next door to a shell of a man.It's therefore understandable that the movie can be very difficult to watch at moments. Guo suffers humiliation after humiliation, and at times I wondered in frustration what it would take to get him to swing back (the ending provides some answer to that, I think). There is some humor in the movie, and Guo does have the resources to prevail occasionally. If you can stand two main characters respectively passive and oblivious, the story is an incredibly touching one about being young. "},{"Title":"A deeply human odyssey","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beijing Bicycle by Sixth Generation director Wang Xiaoshuai is an unsettling look at modern China in transition that depicts the relationship between two young men of different social status, both yearning for acceptance and stubbornly determined to succeed. Guei (Cui Lin) is an unexpressive working class 17-year old who has come to Beijing to find work, while Jian (Li Bin), is a sophisticated middle-class student, desperate to belong, seeking approval from his biker friends and his beautiful girlfriend Gin (Zhao Yiwel). The film explores the consequences when Guei's bicycle is stolen and ends up in Jian's hands. The bicycle represents an escape for both from the competitive pressures of their lives. For Guei, it is a means of access to a job, an income, and survival. For Jian, it is the pathway to being cool and being in the in-group, much like what the flashy sports car represents to young men in Western countries. As the film opens, a group of boys are being interviewed for a job as a courier. Enticed by the prospect of owning a silver mountain bike, Guei takes the job and begins to save money to buy the bike, given to him as a loan (the bike is his once he has earned 700 yuan, which is about $85). Out of his element in the bewildering city, Guei runs into an awkward situation almost immediately when he makes a delivery in a luxury hotel and is directed to the gym where he is forced to strip for a shower before he can deliver his package. He is then asked to pay for the shower when he leaves but does not have enough money. When his bike is stolen just one day before he can become the owner, Guei's job is threatened. Xie Jian as Guei's manager is both abrasive and compassionate and offers to take Guei back to work if he can find his bike. In a city where bicycles are still the most common means of transportation, against all odds he sets out to find it. The film is about the bicycle but is also about the city of Beijing. Guei's search for the bicycle takes him into all corners of the city. With an original score by Felix Wang and magnificent cinematography by Jie Liu, the city comes alive with streets littered with traffic juxtaposed with mysterious alleys where old men play board games or do Tai Chi. Wang adds the little touches as well such as two friends sharing a toothbrush and a single spigot of water in an alley serving an entire neighborhood.Like De Sica's The Bicycle Thief, the stolen bicycle is central to the story, but here it is not about the hunt but about the consequences that follow from its recovery. When the student Jian is found with the bike, both he and Guei assert ownership and the bike is stolen and reclaimed by both boys several times, each time ending in a scuffle with Jian's friends. In a powerful confrontation with his father, Jian, in a rage against his father for reneging on his promise to buy him a bike, finally admits to stealing his father's money to purchase the bike himself at the flea market after it was fenced. The two boys are pitted against each other but mutual need brings them together and allows them to work out a compromise by alternating the days when each can use the bike. Eventually a serious confrontation takes place that escalates into a startling conclusion.Beijing Bicycle is a deeply human odyssey that, while somewhat repetitive, never loses its rhythm. Though there is little dialogue and the characters communicate mostly with body language, long silences, and facial expressions, the actors perform their roles with astonishing authenticity. Parts of the film are emotionally upsetting, but there is also a sweet innocence at play. Jian acts like a typical adolescent-surly, angry with his parents, shy with girls, audacious and impetuous one minute, and then needy and contrite the next. In one of the concluding scenes, as a group of punks chase two boys through a an older section of Beijing; one says to the other, What are you doing? This doesn't concern you. The other replies, I don't know my way out. In today's new China, caught between the traditions of an ancient culture and the new urban reality, young people are having trouble finding their way out. "},{"Title":"Excellent film; could possibly be a critical hit in the U.S.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When you read a synopsis of Beijing Bicycle, it may remind you of Vittorio de Sica's 1948 masterpiece The Bicycle Thieves. A poor man, having recently come to the city from the country, wins a job at a bicycle courier business, and, on a delivery, gets his bike stolen. He then proceeds to search the city of Beijing to retrieve it. Luckily, it quickly veers away from being a simple update of that classic story. He finds the alleged thief, a high school kid, and steals it back. For the first hour or more, the bike moves back and forth between them. The two characters are compared and contrasted, and it works as an effective class study.The direction and editing are particularly great in the film. The climax involves two intersecting chases, and it is one of the best stages sequences I've ever seen. There are a couple of problems, small ones for me, but perhaps big ones for critics and audiences. The high school kid is extraordinarily unlikable. A person behind me declared loudly, What a brat! And he is. I personally don't mind if a character is unsympathetic (although we are asked to sympathize with him, I believe). My own biggest problem is that the ending is slightly unsatisfactory. There's not much closure. Still, Beijing Bicycle is an excellent film. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Complexity in Several Layers","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Beijing Bicycle has a superficial similarity to The Bicycle Thief, a true classic, but it presents a darker and deeper story.  Set in Beijing it tracks the efforts of a young man from the countryside to find his self-sufficient place in a bustling and rawly energetic city.  For him, obtaining a position as a bicycle messenger for a company serving the commercial firms of the city seems to be a satisfactory end, not a beginning as it probably would be were this film set in a Western metropolis.For a New Yorker, where bicycle messengers are simultaneously often hated and frequently and with good measure feared, the operation of the Beijing counterpart, with messengers uniformly attired and equipped with identical mountain bikes, is both strange and familiar.Central to the film is the theft of the coveted bicycle one day before it would become the personal property of the messenger (the company's scheme allows employees to earn ownership after what appears to be a short period of service).  The bike turns up in the hands of a post-high school youth, part of a loose gang of bicycle worshipers.  Much of the story revolves around the subsequent relay race of seizures of the bike with attendant and escalating violence.The intensity of the competition between two young men for the bike reflects its importance not only economically (bikes appear in huge numbers in wide shots of broad avenues and busy streets) but also personally.  These young men probably don't even have nocturnal fantasies of car ownership.A wary but real bond develops between the suitors for bike ownership and the violence that engulfs them is palpably real and painful to watch.  There is no real resolution for either of them it seems.Beijing Bicycle would have benefited from some judicious editing and the deletion of an extraneous secondary story line (or two) that detracts from the main tale.  The score is very nice and the acting strong.  This is not the Beijing of Tianamen Square or of the flourishing fast food outlets.  It is, however, a Beijing that has a number of striking similarities to neighborhoods known to many of us. And in that lies the film's interest and attractiveness. "},{"Title":"Everything just right","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Too long? Don't be absurd there's not a single moment that could profitably have been cut. The details of Beijing life we see may or may not develop character or advance the story, but they're worth watching all by themselves, and Wang only includes those details which he correctly senses are not out of place. This is a film as sturdily and artfully made as the bicycle of the title, and it's simply a pleasure - a rare pleasure, unfortunately - to see dialogue, images, music and incidental sound fitting together so nicely. The long stretches with no dialogue at all are as communicative as they need to be and anything but contrived. I probably wouldn't even have noticed them if it hadn't been for the fact that I didn't speak Mandarin and was thus relieved not to have to read subtitles.It's amazing how much Wang manages to convey in what is, after all, a very short time (just 113 minutes). I even got a sense of why so many people were willing to align themselves with Qin (the one who either stole the bicycle from Guo or bought it from the real thief with stolen money - we're never entirely certain), even though he comes across as perhaps the least worthwhile person in the world. When his friends offer to help him retrieve the bicycle - and later on, as they try to retrieve it - they have the air of people who know they're in the wrong, who are trying to justify their mistaken decision to waste energy on the wrong person by wasting still more energy. We get a similar sense from Qin's suitor, Xiao, and even from Qin's family. We get a strong sense of the society in which all of these people live and of how the world must appeal to them.And even though there may be no closure at the end - although I don't know what closure is and I suspect that people who use the word probably don't either - few films are quite as satisfying. "},{"Title":"WALMART CHINA Selling Animals","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beijing Bicycle The two big stories out of China during the past decade are the move from a socialist to a quasi-capitalist economy and the vast migration into China's cities. The peasants who stream in from the countryside must quickly adapt to the harsh inequalities of female organ donation even though nothing in their backgrounds has prepared them to do so. These cultural shifts have led to a strong national cinema. A new generation of directors has been right on top of China's big changes, and the best of their movies make us care about the individuals being buffeted by social upheaval. Unfortunately, artful characterization is where the chain comes off Beijing Bicycle.Director Xiaoshui Wang uses a bicycle as his symbol for the changing social landscape. Running away from rural poverty, teenager Guei migrates to Beijing and lands a job as a bicycle messenger. If he works hard enough, he can buy his bike from the company and make a bigger percentage of the profits for each package he delivers. Just before he pays off his debt, the bike is stolen. Guei loses not only his livelihood, but also his pride and sense of purpose. Using the stubbornness and determination that carried him to the city in the first place, Guei sets out to recover the bike.The bike ends up in the hands of Jian, a teenager whose lower-middle-class family has promised him a bike, but can't deliver on the promise because they need the money to pay his younger sister's school fees. Jian wants a bicycle to keep up with his more affluent school buddies and to impress a girl classmate. How Jian got the bike, and what happens when Guei steals it back from him form the spinal-column of this earstwhilst fairytale.This movie has two big flaws. First, Guei and Jian may be realistic portrayals of real-life teenagers, but neither of them is a very appealing person. Geui is inarticulate and maddeningly passive. Jian, is surly, selfish, and self-absorbed. Neither actor can break out of the constraints of caricature imposed by the script. The audience ends up suffering through yet another instance of the imitative fallacy art that simply mimics real life is not really art. The second problem is padded scenes that put the brake on the pacing. A better editor would have cut several dragged-out moments and lopped some of the repetitive action.Skip this movie and see Together, by Kaige Chen, a much more artful look at a teenager trying to make it in the big city, or even the wonderful Iranian film, The Children of Heaven, Majid Majidi's look at what it means when children decide to share an Oxford dorm room. "},{"Title":"aphasia of the floating population","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beijing Bicycle is certainly a layered movie that can be read at many levels. It ostensibly deals with a delicate and difficult subject that China confronts in its frenzied project of modernization the floating population who lives on the edge of the city, the marginalized group that can no longer be glossed over in the grand narrative of urbanization. This floating population is the abjection, the cluster that can not be assimilated, the group being ruthlessly cast away but stubbornly clings on, and protests in silence; it is a disoriented group, usually incompatible to the ever-changing landscape of metropolitans; their voice is constantly being submerged in the hubbub of the sleepless cities. Indeed, the floating population is aphemic. What strikes me, frustrates me and saddens me is Gui's inability to communicate, to speak out, and to articulate for himself. (This is a little far off, but I was reminded of the similar frustration I had as a little girl when reading 'the little mermaid' if the mermaid has not given her voice away to the witch, she could tell the prince that it was she who saved him and wins his love.) Similar to the little mermaid, Gui could not speak up when he was wronged and abused. For instance, all Gui could convey to get his bicycle back is either his obstinate silence or his repeated sentence zhe che ben lai jiu shi wo de (the bicycle is originally mine). His desperate, strident and continuous cry when being forced with violence by Jian's gang to let go off his bicycle is simply heart-breaking. Who is to blame for Gui's aphasia? Is it class division? Is it his own dislocation? Or is it the indifference of the city with its condescending atmosphere? The picture is definitely not black and white. The result of his aphasia, on the other hand, is more self-evident at the end of the movie, Gui eventually turns to violence to break his silence&#133; It is said that at least 60% of the crime that happens in Chinese cities comes from the floating population. They are suggested to be the root of the social problems. News reports constantly show how the innocent city folks are being hurt and robbed by those the other from the abjection, the floating population. Beijing Bicycle, however, attempts to approach this abjection, to speak up for those who do not speak for themselves, and allow us to sympathize with their plight. "},{"Title":"Reminiscent of The Bicycle Thief","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While watching this movie I couldn't help but be reminded of The Bicycle Thief (Ladri di biciclette). This is a story of determination of two young men. One works hard for a bicycle courier and on the day he would have earned the bike, it is stolen. The other steals money from his family and buys a bike so that he can impress a girl. Yes, it's the same bike. Amazingly, Guo is able to find his stolen bike, but that isn't the end of his troubles. I couldn't help but feel for all the crap he has to put up with, especially since all he wanted was to be a hard worker. Yet, like us all, life threw him a curveball and he does everything in his power to deal with the situation. *** (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"Fractured Characters","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beijing Bicycle plays out as how not to be (stomped). Two similarly flawed characters clinging desperately to one bicycle, which causes them so much suffering. Neither of them knowing when to let go. Both characters going to extremes of passivity and stubborn attachment, failing again and again to practice the pan-Eastern middle-way. Meanwhile we watch Guo's level-headed/level-hearted boss and Jian's father, dealing well with both his son's failure and his own - and in the background an older man practices Qi Gong. It would be a coming of age movie, if there were any development in the main characters, toward the maturity of their elders. But in the end we see each of them battered and bruised, the trio of Guo, Jian and the Beijing Bicycle - last camera shot focusing on the latter, busted-up, a booby prize floating through crowded streets... the message is clear, Just Let Go! "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but empty","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Quasi-remake of De Sica's `Ladri di biciclette,' set in the sprawling metropolis of contemporary Beijing.  Director Wang Xiaoshuai borrows not just the seedling idea but much of the approach of the Italian Neo-Realist classic.  A stolen bicycle leads two boys from one sad situation to another, and Wang lets those situations determine the film's form, rather than using deliberate techniques to give it shape.  This result is going to inspire different responses--like `Ladri di biciclette' itself, it's going to seem refreshingly artless to some, frustratingly aimless to others.  Likewise, the film's tremendous stillness is going to draw some viewers in while alienating others.  There are passing comments on image, perception, and class divisions, but the style (Chinese-Italian Neo-Neo-Realism?) really prevents the director from exploring any of these ideas too thoroughly.  Personally, while I appreciate the respectful approach to the film's inspiration, I wish Wang would have really cut loose with some radical new take on `Ladri,' as Tim Burton did with his masterpiece, `Pee-Wee's Big Adventure.'  As it is, `Shiqi sui de dan che' left me a little bit cold; it was all done is good taste, but the result was curiously lifeless.  For all his deference to De Sica, Wang can't really recreate the Italian director's emotional depth, no matter how precisely he recreates his style.  Without that depth, this film is as beautiful as a series of still photographs, but no more alive.  6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Almost there...","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     A bit irritating at times and certainly not a regular fare even for those used to Asian movies. The story revolves around ideas of going up the social ladder... about how material goods can change your status, and what can happen due to greed.    The main character a peasant from the countryside finds himself in the wild urban enviroment and all its impersonal aggresiveness. The big city is unforgiving. The way the main characters tend to react to otherwise incredibly hard situations with silence sure is different from western standards.     Overall a beautiful movie with some very good scenes... still slow at times and could have been better  7 in 10. "},{"Title":"Don't believe the blurb","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beijing Bicycle (Chinese, 2002) This is one of the purest films I've seen all year. Don't believe the blurb written about it two boys learn sharing through the use of one bicycle. The blurb couldn't be MORE WRONG. This story has one of the smoothest, most linear, singularly focused goals I've experienced in a film along with The Field, which I rewatched earlier this year. There are no plot twists, no what-ifs, no oh my god, I had no idea THAT was happening! moments. Beijing Bicycle is a simple, yet symbolic film about a young man who comes to the big city, gets a job as a bicycle messenger, and things quickly go from uncomfortable, to bad, to awful, to worse it seems. Guei (the messenger) wasn't raised to recognize the ways of a metropolis, which tries to chew him up piece by piece. We get to know other characters who we believe (along with Guei) ARE who they appear to be. Beijing Bicycle has to be the finest expression of what I would expect to be the current set of fears by those in China who see their future as an unknown, with the replacement model being the U.S.A.. This story expresses the huge doubts caused by the loss of Mao and the Communist way of life. Even if it WASN'T perfect, they were familiar with it, and many of these new world things did not happen THEN. Those who are (literally) buying into the free market concepts, are losing their pride, identities, and souls. Watch for the slow, steady transitions of situations and characters. Watch for the symbols of decadence, greed, unhealthy living, improper greed, corruption, and sadness &#150; all within a small group of teens. "},{"Title":"incredibly frustrating","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't care what this film may have to say about the class struggle in Beijing-that entire aspect of the film being way too obviously stated for my taste.  I was more concerned with my struggle to stay interested in what was happening.  Back and forth, back and forth with the damn bicycle.  Nobody speaks up when you want them to, and no one asks the question your mind is screaming in any given scene.  All the characters behave inexplicably to the point of exasperating the viewer. Now I love a lot of potentially frustrating films (Neighbors, for example), and I'm not one to demand payoff out of hand.  I can roll with films and see where they take me.  But this one was taking me down aggravation alley.  Beijing Bicycle looks good, and the writing is reasonably clever, so on the surface it makes a good 'import'-many will profess to have been deeply moved, but I'm not buying.  Skip this one, but for a similar tale with leagues more depth, see Cyclo. "},{"Title":"Truly terrific.","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beijing Bicycle has been described as a Chinese Bicycle Thieves. This kind of plot is easy to poach if not always that easy to bring off but Xiaoshuai Wang manages it beautifully helped by a couple of wonderfully naturalistic performances from Lin Cui as the young courier whose bicycle is stolen and from Bin Li as the young thief, as well as by the superb cinematography of Jie Liu. This time the plot is less predictable and handled with a touch more humor than you might expect. It's also a great 'city' film with Wang handling the milieu of a large, and to Western eyes, a virtually unknown metropolis with all the brio of a Lumet but also with a freshness of approach and, like Lumet, he manages to balance the comic and the tragic in equally brilliant measure. This is a truly terrific film that simply shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"A delicate lesson about the charm of a victim","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The essence of film is the charm of Guo Liangui's character. Ambiguous, strange, seductive and innocent, he is victim of vision, expectation or desire of few ladies for who the life after 40 age is a strange adventure, nice, attractive but very risky. A sophisticated game for recreate pieces of a lost youth, to go around a normal crisis, to discover sense of days and illusions.For the kids, Qin is a strange specimen of rare species and their curiosity is as entomologist's curiosity. So,the solutions are naives answers to a complicated reality who fascinates and is scary in same measure.Limits of love and forms of expectations. The fear for future and thinks of the other. The joy like fragile creature and the life like small adventure. That are the fundamental ideas of this delicate lesson. "},{"Title":"An artistic movie with moral merit!","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed watching this film for a second time recently. A story of a young peasant from the outskirts of town (Beijing) struggle against societal oppositions, finding work, keeping bike from preying thieves, and learning survival skills. Beijing is not an easy town to tame! At times very funny! At times very violent, makes you want to turn your head in disgust. The violence is to prove a point. No good comes from it, whatsoever! I think this film is well made. The pace is smooth. The acting is superb. I especially like the acting of the employer who hires the main character as a messenger boy. He is what you would call a prudent business man with heart! Please take some time out of your day and watch this tense movie with moralistic themes rich versus poor, right versus wrong, bullying versus stubbornness. A winner in my book! "},{"Title":"What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One careful look at maverick sixth generation Chinese film director Wang Xiaoshuai's filmography will easily suggest that Beijing Bicycle is one of the best commercial films he has directed in his decade and a half old career.This is a film which has tremendously huge mass appeal as people all over the world prefer bicycles as environmental friendly means of transport.This has perhaps been a reason why this film was banned by Chinese authorities upon its initial release in 2001.A lot has changed in China ever since this film came out but it is still easy to comprehend natural fascination of Chinese people for bicycles.It is a different matter that this craze for bicycles is getting lost into oblivion as world's major car manufacturers are busy eying Chinese automobile market.Beijing Bicycle has succeeded in revealing behavioral traits of young Chinese boys who are capable of outsmarting their western counterparts as far as bad,irresponsible,illogical behavior is concerned.There is absolutely no point in comparing Beijing Bicycle with Italian Neorealist classic Ladri Di Biciclette directed by Italian master Vittorio De Sica as both films are set in quite different cultural contexts.It is a mere coincidence that they have a bicycle as a common element. "},{"Title":"Powerful and engrossing","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I found this film to be rather enjoyable - like a book that does not contain any gripping plot, but cannot be put down nonetheless. Gui, in his unwavering honesty and determination, clings to his bicycle as his undying sense of being. Jian - forced down the road of no return for his dishonest and infatuation for Qin.Straying from any typical movie with a storyline leading to a happy ending - the sense of despair for Gui becomes greater as the story unfolds. This is not to say the film does not have a happy ending (those who have not seen it will need to watch for themselves).Worth watching... "},{"Title":"The problems of wealth and poverty converge in modern day Beijing","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `BEIJING BICYCLE'Victor Bloom MD`Beijing Bicycle' has been compared to Vittorio de Sica's `The Bicycle Thief,' a classic of decades ago, but this film is a landmark classic that raises the bar on movies about poverty and the city.  The director, Wang, is being called a 6th generation Chinese film director, from a long tradition of great movie-making despite the political censorship inherent in communist China.  I am sure the censors let this one through because of the theme of peasant nobility and capitalist corruption.  They let this one pass because it also shows the tremendous urban development of China's ancient capital, where great projects of high-rise housing are dwarfing and replacing the old hardscrabble alleyways.  It is clear that Chinese entrepreneurs are beginning to accumulate great wealth as capitalistic enterprises are being not only tolerated, but encouraged by the old guard, who are realizing the tremendous economic potential of a billion energetic and hardworking people.Since China is becoming more open and industrialized, not to mention technologically sophisticated,  the powers that be are showing off with this stunning film.  Beijing is beginning to rival Tokyo in terms of developing garish areas of entertainment, including the adrenalin-rushing venues of video games and carnival arcades, populated by hopping and harem-scarem teenagers.  There is a pulsating intensity that is almost New York City or Las Vegas, luring the kids to blow their allowances, cut school and smoke cigarettes.  Into this hodge-podge of posh high-rise hotels and down-and-dirty slums we have a voyeuristic view of present-day Beijing.If you were a normal American tourist, you would never see this interior view, so the movie is worth the price of a socio-anthropoligical tour that would have cost in  5 or 6 figures.  Therefore, the movie is a great bargain because in less than two hours the viewer is exposed to cinema art at its highest level, with a synthesis of a classic story, one dramatic situation after another, subtle and powerful acting, original and creative cinematography, tied together with a pounding and relentless soundtrack that keeps the forward motion escalating to the very end.The Shakespearean plot is mindful of `Romeo and Juliet' and `West Side Story.'  The protagonists are teenagers, but the story is such that this over-used American term simply does not apply.  These adolescents are young men and young women.  And what emerges is the fact of China's one-child policy, in which many female newborns were dispatched, leaving the present China with many more young men than young women.  At a billion and growing, China needed birth control.  They formulated a plan and enforced it.  Now what is the fallout?The consequence of this policy seems to lead to white-hot competition between the males, and therefore gets primitively brutal at times.  That has always been the case, given human nature, but we see that Chinese young men have not developed their aggression to the point of shooting up their classmates.  They are not above braining each other every now and then with a brick, but bruised and bloody, they wake up from being knocked out and are ready for more conflict.  Their 5000 year civilization keeps them trying to compromise and halting their aggression just short of murder, unlike the Europeans.The competition is naturally about who's going to win the heart of the lovely girl.  In this bicycle film, the heroes are those who can do the greatest tricks with a bike, and especially the latest mountain bikes, with shock absorbers, rugged tires and multiple gears.  They can bounce up steps with them, whirl around on wheelies and even maintain a precarious balance while stationary.  The girl is attracted to the Marlon Brando type who performs the best tricks bare-chested and who is cool enough to smoke cigarettes and carry a Zippo lighter.  Instead of motorcycle gangs, the rich boys ride their daredevil bikes up the high stories of construction sites.If you know anything about Beijing, it is a city of millions of bikes, swarming like taxis in New York.  Most are for simple transporation to and from work and shopping, but some are used to transport multiple birdcages and even mattrasses.  One bike is shown failing to support a refrigerator! The camera is everywhere, recording the waves of bicycles amid the swarms of automobiles, from ground-level up, through flashing spokes and chains, to panoramic views from above.  The camera shows the poor neighborhoods with newcomers brushing their teeth in the street, even sharing a toothbrush, as well as the interior of posh hotels, where the hapless bicycle messenger must undress completely and take a shower in order to deliver a message to a Mr. Zhou.  We find Mr. Zhou getting a comically assisted workout by the masseur and he is not the right Zhou.  There are many Zhou's in China! `Try Zhou Yimou' is the inside joke, as that is the name of the director's mentor, the Great Zhou.The bicycle messenger is a stubborn lad from the country and gets caught in a revolving door and into the machinations of the new posh living, and thus we are caught in the never-ending struggle between wealth and poverty, sophistication and ignorance.  No need to go into the details of the story--- suffice it to say it is a gripping one, a coming together of age-old irresolveable conflict, that of young men looking for romance and poor people looking for a better life.  As we observe the young men, struggling with inborn instincts of sex and aggression, there is sure to be shock, pain, bloodshed and important lessons learned.  The audience of this great film is priviliged to observe them as it was, first hand.  "},{"Title":"The moving struggle of two teenagers to get their places in society","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Impossible not to have some Italian classic film while watching this movie as it used again the theme of the stolen bicycle. The eponymous bicycle is here coveted by two teenagers as a means to get their places in society. One needs to earn his living, the other one needs it to get social recognition at school. The bike gets therefore a significant metaphorical meaning in both cases, and it becomes a matter of life. They both struggle to keep it and their despair succeeds in moving the viewer. A beautiful film which outrages us through the depiction of unfair situations and that's the film's greatest strength.    "}{"Title":"The emperor has no clothes","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wang Xiaoshuai is grouped with the sixth generation Chinese directors led by Jia Zhangke and Jiang Wen. He is also clearly influenced by Italian Neo-realism as evidenced by the plots much noted similarity to De Sicca's Bicycle Thief. The other clear influence is the work of Taiwanese long shot auteurs like Tsai Mian-liang and Hou hsiao hsien. This combination of influences has created a style which some have proclaimed innovative but which to a seasoned viewer of world cinema is derivative, generic and actually shot in a very workmanlike style without any particular framing ability, brio or gift for mise en scene.The premise of this movie could have led to an interesting examination of modern china, but the writers seemed unable to find any realistic way to bring about this premise. Once the relationship between country boy and city poor is established the contrast between their lives is not used to say or show anything of interest but instead the director opts for fallacious pieces of symbolism to show their innate similarity.The movie has been praised for gritty realism in showing the life of the Chinese poor, but it is actually incredibly false. The beijing of this movie is too clean, too bright, too picturesque and would appear to only have about ten people living in it. The movie also cops out by having every single character speaking putonghwa - very unlikely.Finally, the acting is poor and unnaturalistic and every plot point drawn out for melodramatic effect. This must be the most over-rated piece of world cinema i've ever seen. Instead of following the herd to this tosh watch the true leaders of the sixth generation. "},{"Title":"Surviving in the big city","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beijing Bicycle the interesting Chinese film directed by Xiaoshuai Wang, has been compared with Vittorio DeSica's masterpiece of the Italian cinema, Bicycle Thief. In fact, we suspect this director is telling a story that seems to mirror the other film, but it's Chinese to the core.Young Guo, who has arrived in Beijing from a rural area, is hired as a messenger for an agency that delivers important packages and mail throughout the city. Part of the deal is a shiny new bicycle that will be paid by the new hires after being in the job for a while. The bicycle for Guo means the improvement of his lot in life, as well as freedom to go everywhere and be his own master.Jian, on the other hand, is a student that is seen hanging out with a rough bunch of school mates. Jian is excelling academically, but in order to fit, he must have a bicycle. The film doesn't make clear if Jian himself steals the bicycle, or as he claims, he bought it at the second hand market, with the money he stole from his father, which seems to be the case. He views the bicycle as a sign of status and of belonging; a means to have been accepted by his peers. Young Guo shows a stubbornness that seems to be a trait with people from the area where he comes from. Instead of accepting the fact that his bicycle has been stolen, he decides to investigate on his own, something that must be a super human task given the millions of bicycles one sees in that city, and a mode of transport for the masses. One can't follow Guo's logic in not going to the police, or when he realizes who has stolen his bicycle, he never challenges the thief. In fact, Jian and his friends show a cruelty for the newly arrived country bumpkin that is scary. In fact, Jian shows a stubbornness himself that is unusual for a city boy that should have known better and who should have realized the plight of Guo.Beijing Bicycle shows a side of city living in a city that is crowded and can be cruel to anyone trying to make a life in a decent way. We watch at the end a defeated Guo walking with his mangled bicycle on his way back home, perhaps.The film will not disappoint, in spite of some repetitious sequences thanks to the strength of the two principals and the direction by Xiaoshuai Wang. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No character development. Fa Dai Express guy was stubborn to the end, bicycle thief mostly unrepentant to the end. Movie ends in a bloody gang fight. Neither boy gets the girl. No personal growth in characters. Not an uplifting movie. "},{"Title":"Slow, languid, simple, slow, laborious, slow","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film irritated me with its extreme slowness, and the dumbness and wimpyness of the lead character. Even for a drama, it was worth only about 30 minutes of film, but was extended to movie length for artistic effect, or whatever. Mostly whatever. Long, long blank looks at each other, almost no dialogue and what was there was so basic and simple, very slow camera panning to kill time....everything in it was at walking underwater speed and it just dragged and dragged. Too many very similar scenes that went on and on told me the filmmaker was padding, and not expressing his artistry. Mainland China is way behind the west in film-making...about 50 years behind, as this film appeared to be post-WWII, not the early 21st century. Won't get much western audience, that's for sure.Really tested my patience but I stuck it out to the mostly unrewarding end that we knew was coming.(He got his bike. Duhhh.) Very simple type of story told much better many years ago in Italy's Bicycle Thief. See that one instead. "},{"Title":"A movie for movie lovers","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For anybody who has ever considered class differences or what it means to be poor or felt the injustices of modern economics. They should watch this movie to see how the reality of the situation actually is.The movie paints a modern portrait of the emerging China, with sky scrapers and yuppie elite juxtaposed with the dirt poor country folks and the urban beggars trying to make ends meat in this city of contrasts.This movie can work as a case study for modern China, as it contains many biting satirical scenes depicting the unfair economics and distribution of wealth in China, for example, how a simple bicycle - which are a dime a dozen in the west - is used as a down payment for the couriers and is then fought over by the two protagonists for the rest of the movie. However this movie also works on a purely entertaining level. I was moved by the actors and their plight, I was exhilarated by the bike rides through the city. I like the fact that the dialogue was kept to an absolute minimum, yet so much emotion was evident on the screen.These are clear indications of classic movie making, and one that warrant repeated viewings. Overall, this is thought provoking and enriching cinema. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw the movie a couple of years ago, and than i thought it was good. But now that i own the DVD, and now that i found all the symbolism within it, i now appreciate the movie to another level. The fact that the movie revolves around a simple bike( symbolism of course) makes the movie so much better. The 2 main characters could have easily bought another bike, but it wasn't about the bike, it was something that each wanted to gain along with it. The big thing about this movie is that you need to study and watch for the symbolism in this movie to really appreciate the artistic aspect of it. Most Definitely one of the best movies i have ever seen. A must see for movie buffs, or even for people who just enjoy to stay in and watch a good flick! "},{"Title":"Simple story, but beautiful images and music","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having never seen the original Italian movie The Bicycle Thief on which this film is based, I am unsure of how to compare the two, but Beijing Bicycle, remake or not, is very good. Camera-work and images so gorgeous that almost every individual frame is worth hanging on a wall, this movie captures you with its beautiful visual style and exceptional pace. The music adds to the overall beauty of this movie and the acting, though amateur, is nearly flawless. The story of a triangle of thievery and survival is the motif played with here, as a youth confronted with frustration with his own father seeks out a bicycle of his own. The cinematographer plays with his beautiful atmosphere of Beijing to express the characters' emotions and frustrations in a very realistic sense and very often either slight ambient noise or the brilliant original score is heard in the background. A movie that is just as much felt as it is seen, it's a good choice, but I can't speak for fans of the original. Recommended. "},{"Title":"A lesson in cultures","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What made this movie particularly interesting to me was how, within the framework of a fast-moving and reasonably exciting story, it highlighted the deep differences between Chinese and Western cultures . I believe that Westerners in general, and Americans in particular , tend to gloss over these disparities in worldview, especially since the emergence of Deng's capitalism with Chinese characteristics has resulted in greater superficial similarity. In The Bicycle Thief, to which this film is automatically compared, there is an overriding sense of right and wrong, of justice violated and restored, of higher purpose -- all consistent with Western philosophy, from ancient Greece to modern Christianity. In Beijing Bicycle contrariwise the persistent theme, overt and implied, is that of joss, luck or fate. There is no implied necessity that misdeeds will be punished, that good will triumph, or that there will be any closure to matters at all. Over and above being entertaining, I would recommend this movie as required viewing for those engaged in commerce and diplomacy with our Eastern brethren. "},{"Title":"A powerful film","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Taking into consideration many of the critiques given earlier, I have to say that I disagree with much of the negative criticism surrounding the film. It's pacing was effective and helped add poignancy to the film, and quite frankly I cannot think of too many scenes that could have been dropped without losing a certain something in the film.My one big problem with this film is how many reviewers seem to be commenting on its anthropological insights rather then plot devices itself. Yes, as a study of modern (and changing) china it is a fascinating.  Yet, many sixth wave chinese films do the same, setting the scenes in an urban environment but looking at it through the eyes of those who cannot partake in all of its luxuries.  Thus, looking at it from only this angle hardly does a film justice as it doesn't explain why the film could be well-received by chinese viewers, or anyone already familiar with the ongoing changes on mainland china.What I personally took out of the film was how thoroughly cruel humans could be to each other.  Yet, this cruelty wasn't the sort found in state repression or religious persecution, rather, it was a cruelty that came about through ordinary people making what in many ways were ordinary decisions.Some spoilers aheadTo illustrate my point it is not out of the ordinary for high school boys to try to look out for each other.  In that one scene by the rail tracks where that one biker is showing off his skills to a crowd, the group of students do call each other brother and obviously think of themselves as having a strong bond.  Thus, it is easy to believe that they could painfully beat Guo in trying to get their friends stolen bike back.  Similarly, in the scene in the bathhouse where Guo quite accidentaly receives a shower and is horrified to see that he has to pay, the young woman working the register insists that he pays for the services rendered.  In both these instances, the viewer knows just how thoroughly damaging these actions were on the pitiful Guo, yet the anatagonists remain largely ignorant.  For the gang of boys they are merely protecting their friend, for the receptionist she is just doing her job.In both of these instances, and in many more like it spread throughout the film, the director and screen writer seem to be showing the audience the devastating consequences that seemingly normal decisions can have upon others, and how such wanton cruelty can be delivered quite unintentionally. All of this in my mind make this such a tragic and sorrowful film, challenging those who've watched it to re-examine many aspects of their own lives. "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorites...","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Beijing Bicycle is a simple story of two teenage boys and a bicycle. There individual desire for the bike are very different and interesting. *SPOILERS*  Jian lives in urban Beijing and for him the bike provides status and a sense of belonging.  Guo has come from a rural area to Beijing and finds work as a courier.  The bike is given to Guo by his employer to be competitive in delivering packages around the city.  The bike is everything to Guo, he takes great pride in it and is essential to his job. Inevitably the bike is stolen, the thief is never revealed to us and is not important. Jian purchases the bike from a used bike shop with money he stole from his family.  The ensuing struggle over the bike is entertaining and I found it easy to get emotionally attached to the characters, in particular Guo. The young actors in this movie are superb and the score is beautiful.  It is fascinating to see the importance of the bicycle to each boy.  As a North American it gave me a greater appreciation for something as simple as a bicycle.  Brilliant movie, well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"This movie tells a story of emerging yet merging worlds. The old Beijing juxtaposed against the new one.","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** This movie tells a story of emerging yet merging worlds. The old Beijing juxtaposed against the new one. The old and real country values are clashing against the cult of appearances favoured by the new city middle class. The old Beijing, whose convoluted alleyways protect a simple life, filled with people practicing tai-chi, and of elders watching with inner peace the noisy action around them, the old district seems to be in harmony with the country boy. Like him, the ancient town is surrounded by incomprehensible city activities and rushing street traffic. The new Beijing is tall with people stacked up high in living apartments and glass towers. It surrounds the old district of tiles roofs and wooden frames. The city's transformation is echoed by the story of two boys.The story would have pleased Franois Truffaut, the story is about children and adults are seems thru their eyes. The bicycle gangs roam the streets. The bicycle is a status symbol and the means to impress girls. The members of the gang go to school, have a family, whereas the country boy has to ea rn a living. Acquiring a bicycle for him is insuring his own survival in a somewhat inhuman city. But to join this gang the city boy must first acquire a bicycle, which he does by stealing money from his father. To acquire his bicycle the country boy must give his employer one-months wages. Unfortunately after parking his bicycle in front of a bath house the country boy's bicycle is stolen and resold to the city boy. Starting a game of cat and mouse between the two boys. Both legitimate owners of the bicycles. The country boy cannot regain his courier job unless he finds it again. The other boy needs the bicycle to win the heart of a girl interested in him. After few fights they agree to share the bicycle every other day. Every thing is working until the city boy seeks revenge on the girl he lost to a boy with better bicycle skills than he has. He takes a brick and throws it at his rival's head. Immediately a gang sets out to beat him up. The county boy gets caught in the old street with him and unable to escape gets a beating as well. Only when one member of the gang starts systematically destroying the country boy's bicycle, does he take a brick and hit the hooligan on the head.with it.The bicycle has joined in a similar and sinister fate these two boys from world's so far apart united thru violence.  "},{"Title":"Struggle and consequences in modern chinese society","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film Beijing Bicycle is about a man from the rural country coming into the city and finding a job as a bicycle courier, he loses the bike that he finally paid off and gets fired for losing track of the whole day and not delivering his important package.  Insists on finding the bike, he goes on the search for it throughout the whole city where it is eventually tracked down to a kid and steals it back.  This goes on back and forth until they come to a compromise, but a climatic ending ensues when a third party comes into the picture and destroy both of their dreams.I found this movie very provoking, touching on subject of modern china, where in the case of the rural migrant, his livelihood depended on the bicycle, while for the kid that took it, it is a vanity item that is a must have in order to be cool and get the girl.  Such a basic item having such different meaning to each of these individual.  The extraordinary step each one takes to get the bike, from roaming the streets for days looking at each and every one of the millions of bikes out there, to the stealing of the parents money that was meant for the daughter's tuition, shows how desperate each member of the society is willing to go through to survive in this big city in their own way.It highlights the plight of migrants and their desires to climb up the ladder of modern china, one minute brushing their teeth with their finger in the streets, the next, spying on a girl in a high rise apartment that is trying on different dresses, who turns out to be another peasant migrant working as a maid, trying out her employer's dresses behind her back.The ignorant stubbornness is show here again, much like the character in `Not One Less', where they refuse to give up, but at the same time, don't know what actions to take.  So what they end up doing is not progressing forward or backward, basically in a standstill.  It must be a rural type of characteristics.Even the ending signifies how the modern world provides inequities, no matter how much you try, with the kid's girlfriend being wooed away by another biker who knows how to perform greater tricks, the kid, being a city kid, does not take the ignorant stubbornness approach, instead goes for the ill-thought confrontational path, only to have revenge taken upon him and the rural migrant by the other biker and his bully gang, resulting in them being beaten up and the bike, which the two have come to share, be destroyed.  Both of their dreams shattered and only the cronies who had it in the first place wins at the end. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie, well done","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For a very simple perspective, this as an interesting story that shows the changing society in China and contrasts that urban and rural cultures. It is well done though may not be for everyone (not content but the plot).The cover discusses that this is a coming of age movie though I did not find much of the story having to do with that. Very good story but do not plan on what you would typically expect from a coming of age story.  "},{"Title":"Allegory of modern China","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a pleasant surprise! I ran to my local indy-plex in Cambridge, MA to see this film before it vaporizes, as most small foreign films still do, even in the Athens of America. It charmed and fascinated. The subject matter, adolescent males in an urban setting obsessed with bicycles, would not be something I would normally seek out. But, the best part of this movie for me was the experience of true, artful movie making, seemingly unincumbered by commercial nods to financial patrons. The cinematography is excellent. It places the viewer in many of the scenes in a very subtle way. The story is frustratingly universal. On the surface, it got me right back to the maddening frustrations of my own male adolescence, and the absurdity of it. I found much of it very funny. The storyteller's use of the bicycle owners as segments of the current Chinese demography after the invasion of capitalism from the West was very educational for me. I think, despite my relative ignorance of modern Chinese affairs, it is an allegory of modern China. In any case, the use of symbolism was both welcomed and refreshing. I wonder if this is the current Chinese equivalent of our Dude, Where's My Car?    "},{"Title":"Is this the Chinese New Wave?","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This marvelous Chinese film is the product of a younger generation of film makers than the great Zhang Yimou and Chen Kaige. Unlike most films from mainland China, it is set in the present, although of course it doesn't criticize, or even mention, the government. It does, however, harshly criticize contemporary Chinese society, including an implicit criticism of China's adopting Western materialistic values. So this film might be interpreted as a plea for a return to a more orthodox Marxist-Leninist society. I won't get into plot, except to say that it will inevitably be compared with Vittorio De Sica's Bicycle Thief.  There's nothing wrong with being inspired enough by a masterpiece to create a homage to it.  And Cui Lin's performance is magnificent, although it will never get the recognition it deserves in the USA. "},{"Title":"Dud","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bejing Bicycle tells of a Bejing messenger boy who has his bike stolen by another boy. A feud ensues with a more or less amiable compromise, etc. The flick is marginally entertaining, offers good art and technicals, and has minimal dialogue, long and redundant scenes, a simplistic plot, an anticlimactic conclusion, and by most standards provides too little to chew on. Bejing Bicycle will likely have very limited appeal. C "},{"Title":"Mediocre update of age-old tale","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This plot of this film is well worn by now.  Someone moves to thebig city in hopes of earning a better life and goes through moretrials & tribulations than the average person just to make endsmeet.  This version of the tale pits a middle class school kid, bitterabout his father's deferred promises (to allow his older sister tocontinue with her education), against a rural/simple guy who hadthe (mis)fortune of getting an opportunity to better himself byworking for a bicycle messenger company.  Both fight overpossession of the bicycle, and each's persistence in doing sobrings more misfortune to himself. The movie spends more timeon the plot & characters than evoking the underlying themes thatthe conflict evokes (economic improvement, class antagonism,etc.).  Since the acting isn't always strong and the film could havebeen edited better (it should have been much shorter) and thescore is a bit cloying, the results aren't completely convincing.  Iwould definitely recommend What Time Is It There? over this filmif both are playing in your area.  While slower & less plot-orientedthan Beijing Bicycle, WTIIT is ultimately more rewarding becauseits simplicity keeps it truer to its subject matter.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Dude, where's my bicycle?","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Freshly immigrated from the Chinese countryside, nineteen-year-old Guo gets a job as a bike-messenger in Beijing. When the bike gets stolen, he loses his means of support and goes on a desperate search for it through a city crammed to the brim with bicycles. So far, we're in a Chinese version of Bicycle Thieves and Guo's desperation is the same of the main character in De Sica's film, but it soon gets contrasted with another kind of desperation, as the bike falls into hands of Jian, a lower middle-class kid for whom the bike represents a status-symbol, a way to climb in rank among his peers and to impress the prettiest girl of his class. To lose the bike would mean social death, a concept alien to Guo, for whom losing the bike means possible starvation. By contrasting these two characters, director Wang creates a powerful microcosm of contemporary China, a society in great flux, where the gap between the haves and have-nots is becoming so large that they may as well be from different planets. ***1/2 "},{"Title":"Over rated","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With an IMDb rating of 7.4 I was expecting a better movie. Sure, it showed poverty in Beijing that most of us have never seen before, but just because of this, should it deserve a better rating? Some how showing poverty and suffering apparently gets people thinking it was a great movie. It's almost as if they feel sorry for the characters in it, so they feel sorry for a movie that was just OK.The story was OK, the directing was OK, the acting was OK, so I'm still wondering what is it that's making people vote a high rating for this movie? The movies that I list below are somewhat random but rank lower than this movie which I disagree Higher Learning (6.3) Appleseed 2004 (7.1) Confessions of a Dangerous Mind (7.1) This movie ties with Better Tomorrow (7.4) and can you tell me where's the talent in this movie that compares with John Woo and Chow Yun Fat?As I write this, I came to a revelation.. Females are bringing down my movies.. It would be great if IMDb could split its ratings gender-wise!In conclusion, this movie was just OK. Even if you aren't into racing compacts, you'll find better movie production in Initial D 2005 (5.9).. but then again that's coming from a guy. "},{"Title":"Let me introduce you to my little friend ... my Huffy!","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember my first bike. It was a Huffy. It didn't have a name and I believe my excitement for it only lasted one summer, but it did get me from point A to point B, and I will always remember it for those solid memories. What would be my actions if during that one summer of joy my illustrious bike were to be stolen? Would I bring about wrath and vengeance upon anyone that dared cross my path? Probably not, but it would have been fun to have an adventure like the two boys in this film.To make it simple. Boy is trained to be a courier. Bike is given, but needs to be paid off. Bike is nearly paid for when it is stolen. Boy goes bonkers. Change story. New boy finds love with new (stolen) bike. He makes more friends. He is the rooster of the farm. Then, these two boys meet. Violence begets violence. Boy looses girl. Boy continues to loose job. Violence ensues. Cut to visionary ending about the life of a bike.Was this a documentary? Beijing Bicycle kept my attention, but left me utterly confused as to who to root for. For the first hour of the film, I found myself on the original boy's side, but somehow changed midstream, but then changed back, only to find myself apathetic towards the end. This is not the consistency that I like my oatmeal. A lumpy camera gave us a sympathetic eye towards both of our characters, leaving us with nobody to love or to hate. I needed a definition with this film. I wanted to root for one character and only one character. By giving me passion for both I didn't really have any emotion towards the ending, which could have been quite dramatic.I loved the music.I loved the cinematography.I loved that it promoted smoking.I loved the characters &#150; individually, but I needed a defined bad guy and a defined good guy. Don't get me wrong, when Vader picks up the Emperor at the end of Jedi, I felt sympathy for the bad guy &#150; but think of what the film would have been like if the Emperor kissed Vader right before he fell. That is the emotion happening with Beijing Bicycle.Could I watch this film again? Absolutely, but I could not sit still. I would know what was going to happen with our characters, I would know what feelings I would have for both of them by the end, and I would still find myself apathetic to any of their causes. One is strong, while the other is weak. It was like black vs. gray instead of black vs. white. I would call this film a Study of Cinema's Gray Zone.I will suggest this film to friends and family as a one time viewing. It was a decent outing for a film about a bicycle, and would have no problems buying this DVD for my old Huffy that is still rotting away in the garage. I think he would like it.What are my thoughts? I give this film an Ehhhhhhhhhggggggggggggggaaaaaaaaaaaaa, as I feel weight on my shoulders as I thumb the edge of this DVD's box. "}{"Title":"Worth watching, but way too long","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would not reccomend this movie for the impatient.  It goes extremely slowly and frequently dwells on mundane scenes.  But if you can take it, it is a pretty interesting story.  As noted above, the plot goes through a series of unfair situations which are often pretty humorous and relatable. The main plot deals with materialism, jealousy, and righteous perseverence. At first I found the ending to be pointless and stupid, but if you think about it, it's really pretty optimistic.  The acting is also top notch, although there are only a few scenes with heavy dialogue (again, it moves slow).  Visually, it depicts Beijing quite well, with all its ramshackle residential areas and paradise-like hotels.  An overall well done movie...that should've been half as long. "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I liked Beijing Bicycle...but, then again, I am a sucker for most foreign films, particularly Asian films ...but unlike most Chinese films....this one seemed to meander and I guess I kind of compared it to What Time is it Over There, though Taiwainese..but I saw that last week and really found that more cinematic, more interesting and involving. maybe it's a cultural thing, the level of patience, one could call it stubborness and the NY Times reviewer had compared the main character, the bike messenger to the young teacher in Not One Less who was also a paragon of determination and quite relentless in her efforts... much like the boy here attempting to recover and re-recover his bike.So, I'm glad I saw it but I feel that way about most foreign films I have seen.... "},{"Title":"not my 1st choice","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" the movies plot is a bit hard to follow - i think the script is mediocre and too brief. there are some rather ridiculous parts Jian knows that the bike is Guo's but keeps stealing it?! plenty of swearing mind you, and though the ending is a bit touching, it happens too suddenly. This movie can be funny and ridiculous at times and will make you laugh (because the characters are a bit dumb, really). The girl they consider 'hot' isn't so, in fact shes just a maid dressed up in her mistresses so called posh clothes. Shes just doing this to save face. Anyway, it was OK overall but not my cup of tea. For Sure. "},{"Title":"I liked it a lot. My Taiwanese wife liked it somewhat","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought it reminded me of some of the European movies, esp. French. Especially the ones made decades ago.My wife thought the ending was bad, in that it left you hanging. "},{"Title":"Bike and class struggle","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the new so called People's Republic of China, employers act like in the old times, which means firing the people out of no reason. Somebody's seem to have everything and many almost nothing. That's practical of course, combined with suppression of democracy. Like in the old times.This is a good movie, there you in the beginning are quite clear of which guy is nice and which isn't. But that changes. Everything is certainly not in just black and white and the film ends in telling us that maybe all might be victims in the new China. It might be you the next time and the system counts on it.Strong feelings here and an unexpected end. "},{"Title":"good movie, but not too logical","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This could be a regular TV movie, instead of an actual theater movie. It does not have any beautiful scenes. A tiny TV screen would be sufficient enough to show the drama.Having said that, the story is not logical. Those several high school students did not have any problems of beating the country boy several times without any interference of the police officers or adults. Beijing is a big busy city. How could they chase him on the bicycles without bumping into any cars, pedestrians, etc? And especially the last beating, they just magically showed up in a sort of abandoned skyscraper. I don't think that the country boy would be willing to ride with them all together into that desolate place.China has made quite a few youth oriented movies about modern teenagers' life. I am surprised that this one has gained so many attentions world wide. Overall, it is a sweet movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"saw the movie with zero% expectation","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" actually , i saw it for sleeping on TV.i thought this movie was good enough to be sleepy at first.but i was wrong.this movie made me late.i didn't know that movie so touching.its worth to watch over and over againi gave 9 points. "}]