[{"Title":"wow, the guys at Disney are on some high quality drugs here...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  it wasn't as bad as I expected it to be (c'mon, the trailer is just painful to watch), but man o man, there's some trippy things in this movie, and they actually make it worth watching.the musical sequence at the diner in the middle of the movie is painful to watch, but I was laughing so hard that it didn't matter; that is PERFECT satire of the entire genre of movie musicals with the talented character breaking out in song randomly and having everyone else in the scene break out in choreographed dance.  The song the waitress sung was awful, but the parody was genius.the cameos by so many of today's artists are priceless, especially the out-of-the-blue appearances of Xibit and Elton John.  I'm not sure why any of the reviews I read of the film never mentioned so many famous people wandering in and out of this movie, but I'm glad they didn't because they all cool surprises. (on a side note, why Mr. Walken never showed up in the trailer is beyond me, but his performance here is priceless!)the prospect of the actor playing Beary's brother going from being Stifler's little brother in Pie and Pie 2 to this nicely obnoxious kid who has a bear for a sibling is just so absurd it's funny.the country music numbers were kick-@$$ enough to make me consider buying the soundtrack...and the groundskeeper bear was funniest thing in the whole movie to me, he cracked me up all the way through.  heck, they can spin him off into his own show if they want, I liked him.   I'm not going to go around recommending this weirdness of a movie to people, but I say give it a try; do NOT form an opinion based on the trailer, because it's not fair to the movie itself.  It might not be the world's most intelligent movie, but it was worth watching for sure.  (And seriously, the talking bears thing might work for a theme park attraction, but the idea of human-like bears living amongst humans just makes me wonder how much LSD the writers of the screenplay had dipped...) I give The Country Bears a 7 out of 10, it really wasn't bad, just really trippy and weird! "},{"Title":"I was pleasantly surprised!","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This was a far better movie than I expected.  Although simple in plot and substance, the presence of both past and present music stars lends to the credibility of the Bears as a musical force from the 70's.  It was funny, and a great film for the whole family! "},{"Title":"Bearly Tolerable","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" This is without a doubt one of the creepiest kids movies I have ever seen. Scarier and even more grim than How The Grinch Stole Christmas. The Country Bears are based on an attraction at the Disneyland Theme Park, but who thought a movie on these creepy bears would be a good film and declare it greenlight? I remember when this film came out I said it was scary and odd. But in 2010, I faced my fear and pressed play on this pathetic excuse for a film.If you've seen the bears in this movie, you know why this was panned. The bears are overwhelmingly fake and just cant be taken seriously. I believe that the technical effects were either CGI or just guys in suits. Either way, it looks appalling. Not one human cares that they are on the same floor as a bear. I'm waiting for the actor to just start laughing. How anyone, especially Christopher Walken can take this seriously is beyond me. This is a joke. Christopher Walken is a great actor, who's nice to see in a film, but he is just letting his career slip when doing crap like this and the 2006 Comedy Click.The plot involves Beary (voiced by Haley Joel Osment) a bear obviously who runs away, after learning he is adopted, to Country Bear Hall to see the band try and reunite the band he idolizes after a ten year absence. Country Bear Hall is going to be tore down by Reed Thimple (Christopher Walken). Beary is determined to get the band back together to once more hear their music, and to save Country Bear Hall.This plot probably wouldn't have pulled through for any other movie. The plot isn't special, we know they'll find a way to save it, and to top it all off, Country Bear Hall doesn't even exist so why care? But the fact that bears are the lead singers makes the film even worse. The imagination may have worked for a five year old kids dream or a thirty year old's nightmare, but an 88 minute movie watching bears prance around the stage singing cover songs is WAY too excessive. We should get a kick too on how Willie Nelson and Elton John state they got inspired by creepy talking bears. Did singing bears really inspire Willie and Elton to sing the spectacular songs they sing today? Who knows? Back to the Christopher Walken issue again, it's just an honest shame to see him waste his talents in an abysmal film like this. Its torture to watch a great actor do a poor job and play as someone he's not meant to play. Like Robert DeNiro in The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle. Its a mystery why no other well known actors were used. If you're going to ruin Walken's career, why not take on Nicholas Cage's? Robert DeNiro's career? Leonardo DeCaprio's career? Or do they know better not to be in a film with bears? Probably, anyone would. Except for Walken.Starring Haley Joel Osment, Kevin Michael Richardson, Diedrich Bader, Brad Garrett, Stephen Root, Toby Huss, Candy Ford, James Gammon. Directed by Peter Hastings. "},{"Title":"A Disgrace to Mankind","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" I surely cannot be alone in the notion that The Country Bears is one of the most abominable creations in the history of cinema. It is weak, rambling, incoherent, unfunny, irritating, tedious and just plain stupid. With no shortage of bizarrely and ridiculously out-of-place moments, watching The Country Bears is a harrowing experience. A worthless and shameful film, it seems as though Disney has tried to hush this disgrace up as much as they could; I, unfortunately, stumbled upon it anyway at the recommendation of a supposed friend.Based on a theme park ride, The Country Bears tells the story of a fictional band of anthropomorphic bears who have not only gained the ability to interact with humans, but also to play country music at an adept level, and do so without any question from the human race. This concept alone is awfully flimsy, but one would assume a company as experienced as Disney would be able to pull it off for a family film.They couldn't.After a nauseating montage of bears playing god-awful country music, the audience (already molested on a cinematic level) is subjected to a dinner table scene that rivals that of Eraserhead on the defecate-yourself-in-fright-o-meter. Beary Barrington (a bear, just in case you hadn't guessed) decides to confront his human parents about the nature of his upbringing, as he is beginning to feel left out. It turns out that Beary is on to something, because although his parents deny anything fishy, stating that they will always love him no matter what, Beary's human brother Dex reveals to him that he is adopted. Enraged at this utterly shocking revelation, Beary leaves home and embarks on the trip of a lifetime.Because he is the number one fan of the Country Bears, Beary heads to Country Bear Hall, the primary concert hall for the band before they split up. It is there that Beary learns from the property caretaker and the Country Bears' manager (who both happen to be at Country Bear Hall at the precise moment Beary arrives) that there are plans to demolish the building. Overseeing this act of pure evil is unhinged banker Reed Thimple &#x96; played by Christopher Walken.To raise money for Country Bear Hall, Beary Barrington's IQ boosts itself by several hundred points and Beary suggests getting the band back together to do one final gig. Henry, the band's manager, seems to think this is a good idea and thus begins the odyssey of torturous ursine antics.Imagine the first half of the 2011 Muppet film, except devoid of any wit whatsoever. The movie takes a standard road-trip story, and whilst trying and failing miserably to be a biting satire of country bands, throws in poorly thought-out (and equally as poorly executed) sequences of slapstick violence, turgid musical performances, and pseudo-Spielbergian familiarity, all to create a haemorrhage-inducing nightmare.After a painfully irrelevant musical act in a restaurant, the band of bears discover they are wanted by the police for supposedly kidnapping Beary Barrington. Cue a police chase that would give Bullitt a run for its money, which features the policemen being sucked out of the patrol car into a car wash and subjected to the horrors of automobile cleaning, resulting in a side-splitting gag involving the policemen's disheveled hair.At the wedding, the bears find Ted, but he refuses to play the last Country Bears gig (for reasons undisclosed). Instead of actually coming up with an intelligent way to resolve this problem, screenwriter Mark Perez settles the matter with one of the bears punching Ted in the face (knocking him out) and dragging him onto the bus against his will. When Ted regains consciousness, it's not touched on again.Soon the Country Bears are fighting amongst each other about whether or not they are in fact a family (not in blood, but in bond). Beary Barrington somehow comes to the conclusion that the humans that raised him are his real family (totally irrespective of the fact that he is a bear), and thus he returns to his home to reunite with his human parents and brother. After finding and reading a piece of fan-mail from Beary, telling the Country Bears how much they meant to him, Ted visits Beary and apologises, seeing the error of his ways.The film builds to a stunning climax as Christopher Walken kidnaps and threatens to kill the other Country Bears. It is at this point where the film dishes out a twist that would make even M. Night Shayamalan writhe with shock. I shan't spoil it for you, but I will say that Christopher Walken's character is a lot more layered than we were led to believe, and Mr Walken really gets to show off his acting chops.Sarcasm aside, all the problems are resolved more or less peacefully (or not resolved at all), and the film finishes with not one, but TWO terrible songs from the Country Bears in their last gig. Beary Barrington even gets to perform with his idols, despite having no practice with them (or anyone else, for that matter). It makes no sense for the bears to be able to play musical instruments anyway &#x96; they don't have the thumbs for it.The atrocious pacing and the vacuously prosaic music don't help this dire trainwreck of a movie, but it's the pathetic excuse for a screenplay that really turns this film to trash. The only thing redeemable about this film is Christopher Walken, but even his performance is only enjoyable from an ironic angle. The Country Bears is an insult to music, an insult to cinema, and an insult to the minds of children. I'm ashamed for the human race that this film has seen the light of day, and I hope that maybe we can learn from this heinous mistake so that the future may be a brighter place to live. "},{"Title":"Yeee-ha!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This is kind of a first for me as a reviewer here at this Internet Movie Database, because I am weighing in on the inaugural film in an ambitious experiment at Disney the first in a series of feature films based on the popular attractions at Disneyland and Walt Disney World. And frankly, they could not have picked a better bunch o' folks to take on this first test than the Country Bears. Peter Hastings, one of the creative forces behind Pinky and the Brain, makes his directorial debut with the story of Beary Barrington (voiced by Haley Joel Osment), who is the #1 fan of the popular musical group the Country Bears. The story has Beary seeking to reunite the foursome --- Zeb Zoober, Ted and Fred Bedderhead and Tennessee O'Neal --- and at the same time, questioning his perception about what family is. The Country Bears themselves broke up many years before, due to the usual personal squabbles that one may associate with a popular music group, ego being not the least among them. Meanwhile, Christopher Walken costars as the villain of the piece, a real estate developer who lost out to the group in a talent show 30 years before. He hasn't forgotten the loss, and he seeks to avenge it by destroying the Bears' base of operations, Country Bear Hall. Now young Beary must battle to reunite his favorite singing group despite their years of animosity, and stop the developer before he tears the Bears' Hall down. That Disney finally has given in to the requests of several thousands of theme park fans and dared to step up to the challenge of making a movie based on its own theme park characters speaks volumes about why they should have used their theme park characters on the silver screen years ago! After I had visited Epcot in October of 1985, I had so fallen in love with Dreamfinder and Figment from the Imagination Pavillion that I soon ended up wishing that Disney would give them their own movie. So in more than a larger sense, the Country Bears' movie brings back a whole mess of memories. Disney has done much with its theme park attractions for over 25 years, but until now, they never dared to put one of their park attractions on the big screen. Before anybody dares throw any brickbats at this film, I think the Mouse House needs to be thanked for finally listening to its fans for once. What's more this is just the beginning. Feature-length adaptations of two other Disney theme park attractions --- Pirates of the Caribbean and the Haunted Mansion --- are being planned even now; and of course, there was the Disney TV-movie from a few years back, based on the Twilight Zone Tower of Terror. So if you're willing to suspend disbelief, and listen to a bunch of bears make music that makes bears (and humans) happy, go see this one. Besides, you'll be doing the ghost of my mom a big favor. She always had this fondness for the Country Bears, though I never truly understood it until now. Maybe, I suppose, this movie was made for good folks like her.  "},{"Title":"All you need to know about this one...","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" ..is that it contains the indelible sight of Christopher Walken performing The 1812 Overture via armpit farts &#x97; yes, you read that right &#x97; for a captive audience of bipedal, talking redneck bears. And Walken is joined in this bit of lysergic lunacy by no less than Elton John, Bonnie Raitt, Alex Rocco, Willie Nelson (!!!) Wyclef jean and Brian Setzer, so it's simply got one brain-trampling moment after another. Yeah, I know it's a kid's film, but what kids were clamoring to see this? Was it made as a tax write-off? But even with those burning questions in mind, it's certainly a truly bad movie, but I sat through it in a state of greatly amused slack-jawed disbelief, so I say see it. Preferably girded with a couple of sixers of beer. "},{"Title":"Even these actors can't save this film.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  As I watched this movie, I couldn't help but think it must have been taken from the Disney Channel.  Look at all the Disney standards taken straight from, and in order to promote, their theme park division; hero feels out of place and quests for self-fulfillment; and random musical numbers totally out-of-place with the film (unlike animated musicals, the music in this movie is, in many cases, supposed to be spontaneously created from whatever's around, but is really overdone; it's hard to willfully suspend that much disbelief.).One GOOD thing about the movie is that most of the cast is well-known (household names like Walken and Osment join veteran voice talents Huss and Root, alongside the familiar faces of Mitchell and Bader); yet even such a strong cast (which also features Brad Garrett from Everybody Loves Raymond) can't rescue a script (and premise) that was doomed from the start.  The cops and mom are stereotypes, the dad is an exaggeration, and Dex, who SHOULD be the sanest family member, can't help but fall into Disney's everyone loves everyone mode despite his efforts not to.  While most of this is allowable to some extent in a movie aimed to kids... this is excessive.  I watched it with a group of kids, and most were bored.  Seems to me that to really enjoy this movie, one must combine a child's tolerance for saccharine moments with an adult's attention span.  Otherwise, it's a below-average movie propped up by strong acting talent and slick animatronics. "},{"Title":"Wait for the rental.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" If you've seen the trailer, you've already seen the best parts of this movie. Honestly. Beary Barrington is a bear who talks and lives with a human family and realizes one day that he's different. So he runs away, hoping to find his purpose in life by reuniting a now defunct singing bear band. After each encounter we are treated to a cheesy musical number, and some silly slapstick comedy. My five year old son thought the movie was okay, but from an adult point of view, the characters (especially the old bears) are dull, the songs ridiculous, and the humor flat. Even the cameo appearances by such stars as Elton John, Don Henley and Bonnie Raitt can't add spark to this lifeless and predictable children's film.  "},{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, I ROARED","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" When Disney does it right, Disney does it right! Country Bears was a breath of fresh air after that flop Pirates of the Caribbean. All star cast, sick music, awesome bears! The plot is so deep as well. Who knew you could learn so much about family from bears! I can't wait for the Country Bear franchise to take off. There are so many potential sequels that I'm sure Disney will cash in on for years to come. I could even see them making a show at Disney World based on Country Bears just like they did with that Pirate crap.Trust me, see this movie! Thank God I'm a Country Bear! SPOILERS The bears sing. "},{"Title":"Terrible movie; lame, boring, and trite.","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" The Country Bears, based on an attraction at Disney World, features excellent voice talent. Sadly, the talented actors are wasted on lame dialog. I cannot recall a single humorous line spoken in this insipid waste of celluloid. The plot is very similar to the Blues Brothers, except instead of hilarious blues singers trying to reunite the old band, these are unamusing hillbilly bears trying to reunite the old band. One way that the Country Bears fails miserably, is by not introducing any conflict. Instead of a story, this film is a string of predictable events leading to one logical conclusion. A five year old could predict the outcome of each scene in this motion picture. Long before it ended, I was bored to tears and just wishing the movie would reach its prognosticative conclusion.I'll admit, the singing and dancing can be fun for fans of honkytonk music. It seems that the entire film was created as an excuse to make the bears sing and dance.I would recommend skipping this movie, and taking the children to Chuckie Cheese instead. There, you can enjoy singing animals onstage and skip the mind-numbing dialog that is spoken throughout The Country Bears. "}{"Title":"I think it is a great movie","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I  seen the previews of this movie before it came out, I just never had the chance to see it. I was channel surfing one day and it had just started. My 2 and half yr old grandson wouldn't let me turn it over. We now have the movie and we watch it alot. I love the music (as well as my grandson). I didn't hear one swear word in it, and it is very entertaining. It was very enjoyable to watch, and with the filth on TV these days, it was good change. It is really for all ages. It is not stupid at all. It was funny and well written. "},{"Title":"Bears rock","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  No matter what other people think, no matter what happens, no matter how old I get, to me in my heart The Country Bears will always be real to me. They will really exist, they will really be a bang, they are real bears. Ted Bedderhead, Zeb Zoober, Tennessee O'Neal, Fred Bedderhead, Big Al, Trixie St. Clair, and Henry Dixon Taylor they are real bears. Ted's playing on the electric guitar, Zeb's playing on the fiddle, Tennessee's playing on the one string thang, Fred's playing on the harmonica and bass, and Henry's managering really puts a smile on my face. Zeb Zoober in my favorite bear but all of them are my heroes. My brother's favorite is Fred Bedderhead. I love The Country Bears, they are my life, I wanna be like Zeb so bad, actually I wanna be like them all, especially Zeb. I'd like to meet them someday that would be cool. Let it Ride, Where nobody knows my name, Straight to the heart of Love, Kick into Gear, and all the rest. I love the bears.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie!!","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time. Its got comedy, drama, a love story, and GREAT music. Not only have the Henson puppeteers made the most realistic bears(watch the mouths forming the words), but the suit performers bring them to life so fantastically that I forgot they were suits. The film features good family values, as Beary finds out Its the people who love you no matter what, .. thats your family This Disney film is for any one who has a family with kids, or anyone who is just a kid at heart. The DVD has some great extra features including an on stage concert. Forget the negative comments and give the bears a chance!   "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable, with great music and a cute story line!","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I do not know what I can say to convince the world to see The Country Bears. I loved the attraction at Disneyland and I **loved** the movie! I even dragged my hesitant spouse along to see it. We both agreed afterward, that it was quite enjoyable, with great music and a cute story line. We felt uplifted and happy for the rest of the day! "},{"Title":"I loved this movie.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I don't know what people found wrong with this film. When I first saw the trailer, I didn't think much of it, but then I saw the DVD of it, and I loved it.The music was good, and the story made sense (for a movie with talking bears) and considering it's based on a Disney Attractions that's been there since the beginning of Disney (or close) it's suprisingly fresh. Certain parts of the plot remind me of Blues Brothers (One of my Fav. movies) And that just added to it.Don't listen to the people that bash this movie. Go see it and make ur own choice on it's worth. "},{"Title":"If your a musician your going to love this film.","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  If your a musician your going to love this film.Why? Because musically they have perfected every detail.Every instrument, except the one string slide guitar are top of the line instruments a true musician would love to play.Some I could pick out are as follows  Fender Stratocaster, Fender Precision Bass, Gibson J-200, and a resonator guitar, just to name a few.And the stage sound setup is perfect with three wedge stage monitors in the front, not to mention an all star cameo line up. "},{"Title":"One word...Fun!","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  First of all, you should have a certain appreciation for the original bears to like the Country Bears Movie.  I thought what made this movie good was mostly the music.  It was great.  I loved the duel with Brian Setzer and Zeb Zoober(one of the bears).  It rocks.  Second of all, sure, it may be considered a kids movie, but the cameos that are in the movie are most likely not going to be recognized by the average child.  There's also some good one liners in there.  I just bought the DVD and have seen it already about 3 times.  There is also a Mockumentary of the Country Bears that is just a crackup.  I just hope that if Disney makes a sequel, it won't suck. Overall, it was a rousing, footstopping good time. "},{"Title":"a nice movie to get through a boring winter night","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  Well, I watched this movie today and I must say it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be after reading most of the comments. It's a nice (family) movie that contains some funny scenes and some touching (atleast my girlfriend told me that ;-)) as well. It's about a young bear in a normal human family, and he realises that he doesn't fit in. In the past, there was a bear music group thingie, from which he thinks would suite him better. So he visits them and try to keep that group and their club house alive. This to find a proper home for him. But after a while he realises that wat he had wasn't so bad at all. Watching the movie on a boring winter night will do just fine. Don't watch it because you want to see a good movie. Because you will be dissapointed. The storyline of the movie isn't good enough to take your breath away during the 1.5 hours it lasts. "},{"Title":"Get it for the kids but watch it too.","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This sets out to bring to life a Disney theme ride and ends up entertaining you along the way. The story is simple and sweet (maybe a little too much for the macho men without kids.) Some comedy bits are geared toward the kids(armpit farts for one) but I found most of it worked well. Most kid movies go for the cheap laughs. As usual, Disney has put together some good songs and performed them well. This makes the movie even more of a treat to watch. I remember the old classic non animated Disney movies (computer who wore tennis shoes for one) and this one is sure to join them.This is a Disney film so don't try to figure it out and don't analyze it. In Disney's world bears do live with humans and elephants can fly. Every kid, big or small, knows this.  "},{"Title":"Just Plain Fun","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  We saw this sort of by accident there weren't any good seats left for SIGNS and we were determined we were going to see a movie.  This was on at 515. this is what we saw.It's funny, it doesn't take itself too seriously, and it's fun for the whole family.  It's nice to see a movie where the writer and director make entertainment their top priority.  It doesn't happen a lot these days. "}{"Title":"It was better than I thought it would be...","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I'm afraid that the Disney Company made an enormous mistake in how they chose to market this particular motion picture.If I hadn't already gotten a ticket (group sales tickets via a friend), I would NEVER have gone to see this movie based on the movie trailers and television commercials that I've seen thus far.I was pleasantly surprised to find that it was a pretty funny movie!I recognize that there will undoubtedly be some people that won't get this film.  So, try to imagine the 1984 film This Is Spinal Tap but with Zeb, Ted, Fred and Tennessee (The Country Bears) playing the parts of David, Nigel & Derek.  It's a stretch, but worth the effort.I thoroughly enjoyed this film and recommend it as a great family film!P.S. I especially liked the song, Kick It Into Gear sung by Jennifer Paige.  It was very, very good! "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I just saw it today with my mom and we both loved it. The singing was great, the puppeteering was great and the voices were to! I mean you know how Haley (Beary) is getting older? and his voice is going lower, he was about to manage the same high kiddish voice he had, about 2-3 years ago! i mean how good is that. I mean the movie was just so funny all the kids in the theater were laughing! I would recomend this movie for you to watch because it is a 4.5 star movie! "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie!","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  Funny movie.  Some scenes were absolutely outrageous like the scene in the diner.    My 9 year old boy and I couldn't stop laughing at the car wash scene.  He commented that he liked the movie because it was all in order (chronologically) rather than a lot of confusing flash backs.    I also took my 5 year old.  He had a little more trouble following the action, but he liked it too.  No one in the movie seems to think it unusual to have humans interact with bears and the story line is enjoyable.  A slight negative was when the human child called his bear brother doofus several times and the parents didn't do anything about it. They do have one flaw (READER don't read on as this part I am commenting on comes close to the end of the movie) The subplot of the police officers is just dropped in mid stream.  Not sure why. Editing? "},{"Title":"Totally Cool!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This movie is really fun, enjoying and entertaining! Everyone in the theatre liked this movie, it is a good mcomedy, not like for example, There's something about mary(There is just the word p**** in this movie!) Anyways, i really enjoyed THE COUNTRY BEARS and i would recommend this film to anyone who just want to have a great time with bears! -) "},{"Title":"DELIGHTFUL movie for kids and adults. Love the music!","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" *WARNING MAY CONTAIN MILD SPOILERS* One of those rare movies that the whole family, from toddlers to parents, can enjoy, on different levels. Parents this one's 100% kid safe. My kids are grown, but I bought the DVD for myself. I love the music.The songs are terrific -- great soundtrack -- especially for those who like Eagles-style music. John Hiatt and Bonnie Raitt supply two of the voices, including one very fine duet. (One of the cameo scenes features Eagles Don Henley and Bonnie Raitt. You'll also spot Elton John and Queen Latifah). Brian Setzer (of the Stray Cats) has a flaming musical duel with Country Bear, Fred Bedderhead. The soundtrack also includes Elton John and The Guess Who, among others.This is not a movie to over-think. Just relax, suspend disbelief, sit back and enjoy the movie's clever, silly humor which, like the farcical storyline, operates at both kid and adult levels. A typically villainous Christopher Walken is a hoot as the banker determined to tear down Country Bear Hall, as is Eli Marienthal as older brother, Dex, the movie's lonely voice of reality.The Country Bears offers not only fun and laughter, terrific music, and a feel-good story, but also a positive message for kids, delivered in a light-hearted, simple, entertaining way.It's hard for me to compare The Country Bears with similar movies because few movies of this type have such a strong musical emphasis. But if you take out the music factor, I might compare it to *Finding Nemo* (for positive family values) or *Harvey* & the 1998 TV *Ransom of Red Chief* with Christopher Lloyd (for a similar style of very dry humor) or *Toy Story* & *Shrek* (for children's fun movies).Movies do not have to be great to be really good, fun entertainment. This one's good for you or your family, one of the best of its genre that I've ever seen...again and again. "},{"Title":"I noticed...","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" Aside from the fact that this was a sad excuse for a film, Did any other IMDb member take note that the restaurant where the bears all eat and the waitress sings their song to them in an extremely overdone production is the same restaurant from the outside as the one from 'Jawbreaker'? You know, when the girls have Liz Purr in the trunk of Courtney's car and they park in the parking lot and talk about how they're going to tie Liz up to a flag pole after stuffing her face with pancakes. I'm the kind of person who took notice to things like that especially when watching a movie that doesn't meet any of my standards. ha-ha But anyways, just let me know if I'm right in my observation. I love pointing out stuff like that. "},{"Title":"this movie was wonderful !","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" this movie was absoultely fabulous ! the country bears really brought back memories to when i went to walt disney world on a trip and performed in a contest. thease bears were not only talented but wer3e funny. Zeb was my favorite of all because i can relate to him. the music was terrifec and the memories of all of them were just so tuching. This movie was also a little sad and true because like beary said  the people who love you no matter what thats your family  this qoute really inspired me and i would defintely recommend this film to others "},{"Title":"Is this supposed to be this stupid?","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This movie was, bar none, the single wierdest, stupidest, most pathetic flaming piece of garbage I have ever seen. First of all, this is a group of singing bears, they walk, talk, sing and dance. They dress in regular clothes, walk on two legs, and play insturments. Yet, somehow, NOBODY SEEMS TO CARE! No one is bothered by the fact that a bunch of wild animals are displaying more intelligence than the screenplay writer who conjoured up this garbage. I mean, you don't see any talking bears in the audience of the concerts, so not all bears could be like this. But, everyone just sits there, watching a bunch of animals play country music. (Although I must say, even if the don't have thumbs, they're much better than a lot of real country stars.) Plus, the bears are just plain creepy. I mean, the little bear is dressed up in the clothes of some young person, he's laughing and giggling, and I wondered, Is this really supposed to be some sick midget who kills animals and wears they're skins along with the clothes of his human victims? Plus, the bears eyes seem incapable of focusing on anything. So even when they're looking at someone right in front of them, they still stare past them, almost through them in a manner that is nothing short of disturbing. I half expected to see M Night Shyamalan's name in the credits. And the thing that really chaps my butt about this movie is that the guy who wrote it, the guy who directed it, and worst of all the guy who designed the bears, ALL GOT PAYED FOR THIS! I mean good lord! What is this world coming to?!?!? If a movie like this came out in the 50's, everyone involved would have been blacklisted. Quality and abillity have taken a back seat to style and marketabillity. (Hence the sudden popularity of, and demand for, Vin Diesel.) May God have mercy on the souls of all those involved. And so help me, if i ever meet the writer or director of this piece of crap, I'll mug him for the $5.75 he owes me for admission. "},{"Title":"Save the Hall!!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This movie is wonderful!!! Anyone who loved the show at DisneyWorld will love this movie.  The only complaint I have about it is that they didn't play any of their songs from the original Country Bear show.  Too bad they won't be playing at a concert hall near me anytime soon...oh yeah! supposed to be a Pirates of a Carribian movie coming out soon.....probably will be even better than the country bear movie. just think if they do every ride!! Imagine what the Haunted Mansion movie would be like?! "},{"Title":"Fun to watch!","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I brought my little brother to see this movie thinking it would be painful to watch. I was wrong, it was great! Music, dancing and good family humor. There were several songs that kept my foot taping through the entire movie. Not a sappy kid movie at all. It's Disney at it's best. If you like rock music with a hint of country, go see this movie, even if you don't have a kid to bring. You won't be disappointed! "}{"Title":"Great for children and inner children","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" I'd never heard of the Country Bears before - even the Disney attraction - and picked up the DVD for half price as a 'stocking filler' for my 8-year-old. I was pleasantly surprised - it's great to see something so innocent and good hearted that isn't packed with the sort of mawkish sentimentality that often finds its way into kids' films. The bears are the stars of the show, with some excellent costume puppetry and some great characters (my favourite is Zeb, who plays a mean fiddle). The story is a simple one, and you know how it's going to end. And I usually hate country music, but enjoyed the rocky tunes that punctuate the movie. This is the sort of thing that will keep most kids amused for an hour and a half - and any adult who can let their inner child out for a bit will get a kick out of it too. I'd be happy to see more of the Country Bears... "},{"Title":"Disney has hit bottom!!!!","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"      Awful is an understatement for this movie!  It is an absolutely loathsome attempt by Disney to entertain children of the 21st century by the standards they expect them to have!  They could not be further from the truth!  Today children are a lot more mature than when I was a child (and you might say that it is sad that kids can't be kids).    This movie has people in bear costumes acting like people.  In my opinion, I would like to request that they MAKE UP THEIR MIND!.  In other words, why can't we feel compassion for a person instead of a puppet!  Let the people BE people!    Sorry Disney, but this attempted Stuart Little rip off does not even come close!  Please try examine movies like Old Yeller to get an idea of what is desired by your viewing audience "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  If you want to take your family to a movie, this should be on your list. It keeps the children entertained as well as the adults.  I hope they make a sequel for they can make quite a good franchise out of it.  I would definately see this movie with my family, if you don't see Lilo and Stitch. "},{"Title":"Oh Yeah! Country Bear Hall!!!","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  Over Yonder...A Monkey...I may be chubby, but I'm quick! How could anyone not enjoy this movie? It's a classic! I found myself laughing so hard, I actually fell off the couch (the car wash scene)...I am 21 years old, and I believe that anyone who has an open heart, and mind, will see the beauty of this film. It's a simple coming of age story, with a twist...this being the kid is a bear, and his family is not. How can you not laugh when his brother shows him the picture of when they first found him? It may be/seem ridiculous...but it's humorous and fun! The music is great, I feel like I am listening to a collection of Classic Rock favorites...I mean, don't look at these bears as bears...look at this story and put Aerosmith, or Van Halen, or the The Who in their place and it makes sense. The cameos in this movie are also great...How can you not like Christopher Walken? He was so funny! Elton John...Willie Nelson, how many big names are in it? It's good clean fun...give it a chance...let the kid out of you for a night, don't analyze, smile and laugh. Let the Country Bears warm your heart! straight, to the heart of love!They like you. -big al talking to the grassAnd boy did I feel different. Beary's dad trying to make him not feel like a bear... )Hurrah for Country Bears! Thank you Disney! "},{"Title":"Great & Entertaining Movie","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This movie it's great to have fun with your kids or without them!!! It's a funny comedy with great music and great characters... Of course nobody it's going to receive an Oscar for the movie's plot, but I found it very entertaining.The Bears are really well done, and I respect the fact that in these days, full of kids' graphic animated movies, Disney put effort into one of these kind.  The Bears are well done, and they move very smoothly.The humor is present and gags are all over these movie. The Country Bears were supposed to be a true country legend band that broke up a decade before, and it's great to see the way they were in their glory day! Very funny as well. There are inner messages about stars that became legends and were lost, that are very enjoyable for the grown up people, if you like music.And speaking of music the sound track it's great... Lots of stars and quality music are all over these movie. Expect to see some famous names cameos.Overall, good music, good humor, cute bears, a good moment for relax. "},{"Title":"The Country Bears","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" I remember seeing the poster for this film while I was on holiday in America, specifically in Orlando, Florida, where of course Disney World is, the film is based on the famous attraction Country Bear Jamboree, I decided to watch and see what I'd make of this film. Basically in a world where humans and talking bears co-exist, The Country Bears were a successful all-bear country rock band until they broke up in 1991, optimistic bear cub Beary Barrington (Haley Joel Osment) has been raised by a human family and still idolises the band. Greedy banker Reed Thimple (Christopher Walken) is threatening to tear down Country Bear Hall, the former concert hall of the Country Bears, Beary decides to run away from home to find all members of the Country Bears to reform them and perform a comeback benefit concert to raise 20,000 needed to save the hall. One by one Beary, with bus driver and drummer Roadie (Lost's M.C. Gainey), they track down all band members harmonica and electric bass player Fred Bedderhead (Brad Garrett), fiddler Zeb Zoober (Stephen Root), one-string guitar player Tennessee O'Neal (Toby Huss) and lead singer and guitarist Ted Bedderhead (Diedrich Bader). Each members is initially reluctant to reunite and take part in a concert, but they are persuaded by Beary and admiration for them, and of course the threatening of the closure of their hall. In the end, after the road trip on the bus to bring them all together, and some trouble along the way from police officers Officer Cheets (Diedrich Bader) and Officer Hamm (Daryl Mitchell) looking for Beary along the way, the Country Bears, joined by musically talented Beary, perform a show to an adoring crowd and raise the money to save the hall. Also starring Stephen Tobolowsky as Norbert Barrington, Alex Rocco as Rip Holland, Meagen Fay as Mrs. Barrington, American Pie's Eli Marienthal as Dex Barrington, Candy Ford as Trixie St. Claire, James Gammon as Big Al, Kevin Michael Richardson as Henry Dixon Taylor, and cameos from Elton John, Willie Nelson, Queen Latifah as Cha-Cha, Crush singer Jennifer Paige as Waitress, Krystal Marie Harris, Wyclef Jean and Xzibit. Only Walken is perhaps worth mentioning in terms of acting in this, he's okay, the special effects to bring the slightly unconvincing talking bears to life is reasonable, and the story is simple, about love, friendship and loyalty, there is some alright music along the way, it is let down by daft attempts at humour and feeling highly predictable, but the family can all sit down and relax with this alright musical comedy. Okay! "},{"Title":"I have the DVD because.... IT'S A DAMN FUNNY MOVIE","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" 3.9? only 3.9 for this??? That's worse than 'plan 9 from outer space' (the worst movie of all time) This is just wrong people.This IS one of the funniest films I have ever seen, and I first watched this at the tender age of 35. Christopher Walken had me almost wetting myself; oh no!. Even now thinking about oh no! I'm giggling to myself. Officers Cheets and Hamm in the car wash? And who doesn't like bears that can talk and play guitar?Yea it's totally preposterous, yea it's meant for kids, yea yea yea it's got singing bears in it.... but it's got gags and one-liners that will make you bust a rib. "},{"Title":"I Can't Bear to Watch this Movie Any Longer.","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" Yeah, I know, forgive that stupid pun I put up on the summary of this review. This movie is nothing but a piece of drugged up grizzly bear s---. Why did this movie bombed the box office? Well, get your hunting rifles ready and find out...First of all, I am appalled by how atrocious the acting is. Do the actors look like they're even trying?! Then, there's the costumes. Jiminy crickets! Those are the worst bear costumes since the Garbage Pail Kids Movie and Teenaged Mutant Ninja Turtles III. Where'd you get those costumes from, Wal-Mart?! Brad Garret, what are you doing in this terrible excuse of a movie? You were in Everybody Loves Raymond and Finding Nemo! Did you see the look of jealousy on everyone's faces while you were in Everybody Loves Raymond?! Third, the musical numbers. Good grief, the musical numbers are so teeth-grindingly bad that they make Tom and Jerry the Movie look like Yellow Submarine.Whoever came up with an idea about making a pathetic movie based on a park attraction at Disneyland should be fired from not only working, but for breathing. Bottom line Terrible costumes, terrible musical numbers, bland acting, and generic music are the reasons why you should avoid Country Bears like the Flu! "},{"Title":"Bright Horizons","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" Mellow or naive, fake or life lesson, religious propaganda or ordinary facts, boring or motivating, history of a fight against yourself, this movie may be discover in every way. For me was only reply at a deep ordinary crisis. The country music to be more than a shadow. To be yourself with the other. To discover the existence as gorgeous miracle. To understand that the faith is the axis of happiness. It is a film with an unintentional underlying erotiscm.But not only that. It is description of family roots and image of its fragile skeleton. A beautiful story of trust and basic transformations. About a note book and some words, gestures and slices of hope. About a trip in yourself expectations. And about morning. A morning -end of the trip.And new beginning.... "},{"Title":"Humans were idiots, bears were fun, music was top-quality","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" Regardless of its faults, I found this to be a fun movie. The music was not necessarily my taste, but it was all well-done.There was a silly plot, and human characters that, with a few exceptions were too moronic to care about. The idiot cops, though, were a lot of fun and I particularly liked Chill Mitchell in what had to be one of his last roles without a wheelchair. Queen Latifah gave a brief but enjoyable performance as a bartender who may have also run the place; too bad she didn't sing too.The actors giving voice to the bears were better than most of the people playing people. True, most of the writing was still silly. Haley Joel Osment did a good job considering the material.I don't really care for Bonnie Raitt or Don Henley as singers, but I realized immediately what was going on when a male bear and female bear sang together and then they showed those two famous people together. The joke about The Eagles was great; I do like some of their music.I didn't recognize Elton John, but someone commented that he looked like Elton John. It turned out to be true, and one of his songs was used too.Jennifer Paige did a good job as a singing waitress and a silly scene reminiscent of Glee. Not my taste musically, but it was well done. Brian Setzer cam closer to what I like in a duel with Zeb. Ordinarily I don't like rock and roll but I'll make an exception for Brian Setzer.And of course the bears themselves are quite talented. Not quite country, but a lot of what's on so-called country radio isn't. Some of the music was real country, though.And I really did care about whether the Country Bear Hall would be saved. It's a nice building, in the sense of being historic.I don't recall any offensive content, if you don't mind one use of the F-word or the sound. I do mean the F-word that kids use, not the other one.It's a silly but fun movie. "}{"Title":"Had its moments...","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" I personally do not think The Country Bears is that great, but I also don't think it is that bad either. I can think of worse movies that have a higher rating, but I can also think of better movies too. The Country Bears may have a lot of faults, that I agree, it does have its good points.Let's start with the good points shall we? First and foremost, Christopher Walken seems to be really enjoying himself as the villain of the piece, he is deliciously theatrical and really breathes life into any shortcomings the film has. The soundtrack is also great, country-and-western music I can take or leave but it was used and performed very well here. Most of the cameos are pretty entertaining, it was nice to see Elton John, Willie Nelson and Queen Latifah, while the production values are good, Haley Joel Osment is appealing and the country bears of the title are convincingly played.However, the film does have its shortcomings, starting with the length. The film is too short, and could have been longer with a little more detail to plot. I didn't mind the plot was simple, some of my favourite films have simple stories, but it is a predictable and rushed one with an ending you can smell a mile off. The script is also rather weak likewise with the jokes some of which were embarrassing(1812 Overture played with the arm-pits, what next?), the film is rushed I think and the direction is sloppy.So overall, The Country Bears had its moments, and it is much better than the trailer which was embarrassing, but it wasn't enough to sustain into a good enough film. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"dumb movie, good cameos","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This is one of those stupid movies that for some reason features a lot of cool cameo appearances by people that you'd think would have something better to do.  The scene with Don Henley and Bonnie Raitt is pretty cool........I thought that it was Don Henley's voice when I heard the bear start singing, and then there he is sitting at the bar listening.  Other than the good guest appearances, however, this movie pretty much sucks. Why bother throwing in a bunch of stars that no kids would recognize?  It IS a kids' movie.  Walking, talking bears just don't do it for me, and I doubt that seeing Elton John dressed like a gardener or Queen Latifah as a bartender do much for a 6-year-old kid.   "},{"Title":"HEEEELARIOUS","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I could not stop laughing the entire time.  This is one of the best comedies I've seen in a long while.  When the movie opens by introducing the bears one-by-one freeze-frame style with 80's MTV accentuation during the Hiber-Nation tour you know it's going to be classic.  Put this one up there with Kangaroo Jack for the year's best.  It takes place in a world where bears and humans live together but no one thinks it's weird.  The only one who notices is Stiffler's brother who takes a crack at a sarcastic comment every chance he gets.  Anyway, if you have a sense of humor like mine and enjoy stupid stuff like this, this movie will have you in stitches. Big Al, the groundskeeper at Country Bear Hall is hysterical.  Plus, any time you add Christopher Walken to a cast, you know the comedy factor will increase ten fold.  Music is great.  Be sure to give this movie a viewing. "},{"Title":"a movie with no plot","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This movie was boring since there was no story behind it.  But, it didn't put me to sleep because there are some good songs in it.  I mean, why not just make a movie about a concert with a bunch of bears singing and have that for an hour and 20 minutes.  That would have been better than a this nonsencical plot involving a young bear who lives with humans who wakes up  one day and notices he's different. Then he sets out to reunite the Country Bears for a concert to save the Country Bear Hall.  All the while a couple of bumbling cops are chasing them trying to find the young bear.FINAL VERDICT  Maybe if you just listened to the sound track it would be OK. But, there is no need to waste your time by watching this. "},{"Title":"Bear Power!","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  After seeing the previews, I thought it was the stupidest movie ever made. But I ended up seeing it (opening night!) and loved it. This movie is so cute, funny, silly, and cheesy. It's great!!!! How can you not love it? Just watch it with an open heart and open mind and the bears will win you over for sure. It definitely falls into the 'it's so bad it's good' genre. You have bears living along people and no one notices. Some people say it's silly, I think it's funny. Plus everyone can relate to Beary, who seeks his higher purpose in life. Don't be grumpy or too serious and you shall enjoy this one. GO COUNTRY BEARS.  "},{"Title":"Sweet Review","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  BEARS ROCK!  The music alone is worth watching.  Great music, cute bears, good story with an unexpected surprise which i thought was great! If your a fan of vh1 behind the music you will love this movie.  It does have it's truely disney moments that are thrown in just for laughs for the kids, but over all it's a honey of a movie! "},{"Title":"Spinal Tap meets the Muppets..","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  The movie came off more as one of the Muppet movie, not because of the bear characters, but because of the cameos throughout the film, from Queen Latifah to Don Henley... I still think Muppet Movie was far better, and Charles Durning a better villain than Christopher Walken, who basically did a walk-on and made some silly faces. But the basic storyline about them getting back together will remind you of other bands that people have wanted to get back together for years... "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  ** POSSIBLE SPOILERS **I rented this movie because I thought it would be really cute and funny, not to mention that I'm a fan of Disney.  The soundtrack was awesome but sadly, the movie wasn't as great.  The plot was just stupid.  I'm glad I rented this and didn't see it in the theater because I certainly would've walked out and demanded my money back.  There were some light-hearted moments in the film, such as the gardener telling everyone that the promotional poster is a sign as well as keeping anyone and everyone off of his freshly mowed grass.The part where Christopher Walken's character locks up the Country Bears has to be the dumbest bit in movie history.  In fact, the plot and the concept of the movie is pretty much recycled material from previous films.  You know, those plots about a building being torn down and someone has to cough up the dough to stop it from happening in a certain amount of time?  Yep, this is what this film is all about. "},{"Title":"Look get this movie.....if you have toddlers!","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This is the worst Disney movie I have ever seen. This movie will bore you to death! It's weird that i see people like Willie Nelson,Queen Latifah, Elton John, Krystal Marie Harris, and more are in this movie or in the credits. I would get this movie if you have children ages 1-6 any older and they will fall asleep. This movie is pure and nothing but dumb and dull. I would never buy this movie because you are wasting your money. You might be able to get one playing of the movie without needing a pillow. It's very boring and it is a dumb toddlers movie. I also have to say I know one baby who is 1 and will watch anything and even him got up and walked away! This is a big drop for disney because usally this is where we go for a good family movie but anymore movies like this than Disney will never be on top. My grade is a D-. My stars are *. Unless you want to be bored to death never watch this movie! "},{"Title":"What's wrong and what's right about this movie.","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  The one problem with this movie is that there was not enough time spent to get the audience to believe in the main characters at the start of the film.  The Country Bears is basically a combination of two movies  THE MUPPET MOVIE and THE BLUES BROTHERS.  Like The Muppet Movie, the audience SHOULD have been introduced to the Bears in their natural habitat perhaps in an entirely Bear world with Bear audiences, Bear storekeepers, Bear families, and Bearhound buses to help make the puppets seem real.  Once the audience believes in this fantasy world (think The Flintstones), have them venture out like Kermit from his pond to meet humans.  Instead, we are thrust head-on into a world where a few bears live with people with all but one kid seeing that they are actually bears.  The first scene is of the all-bear band playing for a stadium filled with screaming human teens.  I couldn't help think why were they attending a Barney-type concert?  Why were they watching grown men prance around in kiddie costumes?  Only humans were in the audience so apparently this was not in a fantasy world where bears and humans co-exist.  Also, the music, which was nice, wasn't something that would have brought this audience to it's feet.  It was really difficult believing they were real bears at this point since we were not introduced to their fantasy world.  Were talking bears common or were they unique and therefore that's why they were a big draw?  The next scene is of a young bear who lives with a human family (think of the dynamics of the little mouse STUART LITTLE who lived with a human family).  Dressed in an open short-sleeved shirt and jeans he looks a lot like Michael J. Fox in TEEN WOLF.  At least that film took it's time to introduce the story.  Like the Muppet Movie (and it's best sequel, A MUPPET CHRISTMAS CAROL), The Country Bears tries to be hip balancing act between entertaining kids as well as adults.  The film does a pretty good job of doing this but it seems an uphill battle.  Since the audience is never given a chance to see the bears as more than merely guys in costumes the jokes require blocking out all the damage the first fifteen minutes of the film has brought.  The first ten minutes of a film is crucial and here it is a death march.  The rest of the film is basically a re-working of THE BLUES BROTHERS as we visit one small country town after another trying to gather up the band for a big reunion concert which will save the day.  We get great music and great musical cameos to make this a long form music video more than a film (which is the nature of this genre and not a bad thing).  These bits are entertaining for the music but the presence of men in large bear costumes does make it difficult.  Kids under six won't mind, but if they were the only target, why the attempt at hip jokes, cameos only adults would know, etc...  A better beginning would have made a better film.  Perhaps on repeat viewings it wouldn't be so bad.  Then again, there isn't enough here to get most adults to watch it again.  If you want to see good country concert footage watch CMT or buy your favorite artist on video.  If your kids like Barney they will like this film too. "}{"Title":"Should have gone to hibernation instead","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  Bad film about a bear cub trying to find his place in the world with a singing family of bears. Bad can't describe this film enough. It's so bad in fact that it's really down right disturbing to look at. The sad part of all of this is the fact that Christopher Walken does his ` Just doing it for the money cameo. Avoid at all cost.  "},{"Title":"Great family movie","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  As a father, I really try to be involved with my kids.  This movie made that easy. It has a great message and music rangeing from rock-n-roll to country. My kids loved it and so did I.  This will be one in our family DVD library. "},{"Title":"wow...this movie is simply amazing","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I love this movie....it reminds me of the chubb chubbs. (animated short before that god awful men in black 2) Anyways. This movies isnt half as good as its prequel that few people have seen. The Country ferret piglets. "},{"Title":"It's a movie...barely!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I took my 5 year old daughter and 3 year old son to this movie and to be honest, i really wasn't expecting very much...and to that end this movie didn't dissapoint.  Now, I know what you're saying the movie is geared for children so it's unfair for an adult to review such a film.  Granted but my kids left the theatre with some of the same thoughts that I had in my head. Thoughts like, why was the fact this family had a bear for a kid never explained.  As well as it being plainly obvious the bears were likely some dorky teenager in a bear suit.Now admittedly, there were some nice musical numbers most notably Don Henley and Bonnie Raitts duet performed by two of the bears.  Forgive me if I can recall the names of the bears.  That performance was solid but the problem was the songs were interupted by the dialogue which bearly moved.  The film could have been made entirely as a musical and it would have been much more watchable.  And really, why even have the bears in the plot at all?  Just use four loveable washed up country singers, god knows there are enough of them who would jump at this type of gig.  I'm sure producers could entice Billy Gilder to play the role of the young bear to round things out.What was equally unbelieveable were the number of celebrities willing to have cameos in this film.  Besides the aforementioned Raitt and Henley was Elton John.  Memo to Elton  Stick to voice overs or soundtracks, DeNiro you ain't.Take it from me, or my kids, save your money and take them to some of the other family film.  Stuart Little 2 or arghhhhhhh even Scooby Doo would be better choices than the Country Bears. "},{"Title":"Come on its a kids movie","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  Anyone going to this film expecting to see a movie on par with the Godfather will be disappointed.  I went with my son (5 years old) and we both like the movie for what its worth.  I see reviewers saying that they have a problem with the bears living amongst people and people not mentioning the fact. Let's remember its a kids movie and it is pretty entertaining with some funny cameo appearances in it. "},{"Title":"Looks good, sounds good, awful script","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  Leave this one for the kids.It's too bad - this movie looks good and has some nice music and musical talent in it, and quite a few enjoyable cameos.  Unfortunately the script is just terrible.  None of the characters have much personality or motivation, and the old road-trip story is used once again without any twists.  It's really quite a bore, though the kids might be entertained, particularly if they like country rock.  1+/10. "},{"Title":"Starts off good, ends up being way too long","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  Overall, I was a bit disappointed in The Country Bears. The first 10 minutes of the movie are charming, funny, and enjoyable. This movie is funny because it is so stupid. But once you past that time, you realize this movie is dragged out. It's WAY TOO LONG. A movie like this should only be 30 minutes long. Period. I love the music, though, despite it being country. Bears... singing country music. Who doesn't love that?!  "},{"Title":"See it for the music, not for the story","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I went into this movie with low expectations, but was pleasantly surprised. It's actually less of a storyline movie than a loose shell to hold together some song & dance numbers, like an old-style musical.  There are lots of cameos with famous artists from Elton John to Bonnie Raitt, Brian Setzer, Queen Latifah, and Don Henley, and a mix of musical styles so it's not all country. Plus there are some cute musical in-jokes here and there which the older people in the audience will get (if any of them actually go see it). I can also see this movie having some good replay value on video, as some of the musical numbers are excellent.  The movie's weakest points, in my opinion, are in the story & plot, which feels rushed and silly, despite some good comedic performances by the actors (I always enjoy Stephen Tobolowsky's work, and Christopher Walken is always a pleasure to watch).  Another strong point was the special effects, as the bear's faces and bodies portrayed emotion extremely well. But even with that, sometimes I'd be thinking during the movie, Okay, enough of the silly sight gags and Keystone Cop chase scenes, let's get another musical number going.  Overall, I'd give the musical parts of the movie an 8 out of 10, and the plot/story about a 4. But I'd definitely be willing to go watch it again. "},{"Title":"Cute Clean Fun Family Movie","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" the whole it's-right-in-front-of-your-nose-but-you-are-too-stupid-to-see-it gag never gets old for me. the beginning of the movie is chock full of that kind of humor. the cops are as astute as homer simpson. beary's brother is the only one who has a clue, but nobody listens to him. that's just funny.and who doesn't miss the old country bear jamboree attraction at Disney? man, i grew up with that. it was a sad sad day when they replaced that attraction.yeah it's predictable. yeah it's a recycled plot 11,000 times over. but it's a great movie for younger kids. they aren't going to care if it is a recycled plot. they just like to watch the talking bears and see adults acting silly. it's a tested formula that Disney has used forever. and since the main character is a kid with dreams that he works hard for and sees come true... well, that's just great.who's never had a dream? (mine is to be a kid again =) "},{"Title":"This a great family movie.","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" This a great family movie. Christopher Walken, as usual, is a blast. This movie has other great actors like Stephen Tobolowsky, which add to the fun. The way the musical numbers are presented are reminiscent of The Blues Brothers. This movie shows how it is possible to have a great family movie without even a hint of sexual content. I loved how they dealt with all the bears living among us.My daughter, now 2 and a half, and I, have watched this movie together since she was 6 months old. She requests it and will watch every bit of it. I love every Christopher Walken scene and laugh at almost every line. This movie has been ignored because of Brother Bear. I say look for it and enjoy it with your kids! "}{"Title":"Musical Bears (sigh)","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" ... The contempt that I feel is my due after the lame punning of that summary (and believe me, that's quite a lot!) is NOTHING compared to the absolute unbridled contempt I hold for this movie... Now, I hate country music in general - always have; but bears? Eh, never really had a problem with 'em, since I've never stood in the way of a pot of honey, or roughed it alone in the woods with only a sleeping bag for protection...Now I got a beef with bears *big time*... !!!!!!!! I don't care if I've never seen any 'real life' bears stage a rock concert; the pure awfulness of this movie has taught me the best course of action should I ever do Nail those suckers with a 12-gauge... Do something for me, people; I don't care how - but find the gauche 40yr old 'mummys boy' who had the brainwave that he knew what the kids wanted, and it was this - find him, and smear honey all over his favourite body parts while I fetch Mr. Grizzly... It's the only way he and people like him will learn... Trust me, not only am I gracefully telling you to skip this; but you don't want the horror that would be The Country Bears 2... It truly boggles my mind that there must be some people out there who actually thought this might work... !!I'm sure most of you reading have been to a theme-park, right??! Well then, you know of the 'sideshows' I am about to refer to. The ones where the stench of meat that is overcooked or undercooked - but never 'just right' - hangs thick in the air... Where parents take their cranky kids in hope of a brief respite after the children have just been sick following a massive sugar overdose. Does the sight of minimum wagers baking in a fur suit under the hot sun USUALLY make them feel better? No??! Well, my take is that most normal people won't even need the help of popcorn for them to throw up in a nice air-conditioned theatre if THIS is playing on screen! Hello???! - if THIS is 'live-action', then why have I seen better for loose change at times when the carnival has ridden into town???! Disney are really taking liberties this time, they don't even bother to dress the filthy stinking hobo in gents clothing...Yes, I know it's a kids movie; but that's not even approaching any kind of viable excuse. It's already somewhat tarnished the reputation of ONE child star, merely by association... Careful Haley, or by the time you're a veteran in this business you'll have no qualms about demeaning yourself for money. Just ask Christopher Walken...Kids; adults; bacterium - this THING is not fit to be in the company of any of 'em... ! "},{"Title":"nauseatingly bad","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  i'm amazed there are people that actually like this tripe.i'm even more amazed that i made through the whole thing without falling asleep. (for you see i had been up all night.) i didn't expect it be very good, but i was genuinely surprised about how bad it was. it was like watching a never ending train wreck.80% of the movie is mostly a boring music video.the rest filled with random cameos, lame dialogue, spots of slapstick, and a semblance of a plot.a must see for those who enjoy viewing the occasional pile of dung. it will certainly give you more appreciation for the 1000's of great films that are available for your viewing pleasure.1/10  "},{"Title":"Not worth speding money on","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie over the summer at a Family Flicks night sponsored by our local park district. Fortunately for me, since I was there doing duty as a Police Explorer, I saw it free and half the time i was nowhere near the movie screen. The people who had to pay were really ripped off, even though they only paid a quarter. This is Disney at its worst.  "},{"Title":"Ah well, they're still better than Shania Twain.","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  I can see why The Country Bears went directly to video in England, it being about country music and based on a Walt Disney theme park attraction and all - and not even one that holds any promise of a rousing adventure like, say, the Pirates of the Caribbean. But I'm not sure at what point it becomes understandable why The Country Bears was a U.S. box office bomb for Walt Disney Pictures (incidentally, the copyright line in the end credits says Touchstone Pictures - go check).Maybe it's when Bonnie Raitt and Don Henley pop up watching two of the title ursine band performing (with the singing voice of, er, Bonnie Raitt and Don Henley), and say this exchange as they applaudBONNIE They were always great.DON Better than the Eagles.Or perhaps it could be when two cops chase our heroes into a car wash and Car Wash pops up on the soundtrack. Or it could be during the first ten minutes, when adopted young bear Beary asks his human brother and human parents if he's adopted.Or it could be the several musical numbers dotted through in lieu of an actual plot (Beary sets out to reunite the hugely successful Country Bears for a concert to save the Grand Ole Opry-type Country Bear Hall, and evil banker Christopher Walken wants to stop the reunion... okay, so he won't do The Simpsons in the episode Insane Clown Poppy he was impersonated by Jay Mohr, but he'll appear in live-action inanity like this?!); the bear who flies Garth Brooks-like through the air while another goes crowd-surfing in the opening montage ties with Jennifer Paige's MTV-baiting Kick It Into Gear scene for the most ludicrous.Or it could be that with the cameos dotted throughout (Queen Latifah? Willie Nelson? ELTON JOHN?) it feels like a Muppet movie done by people who don't know what they're doing. (Funnily enough, the Country Bears come from Jim Henson's Creature Shop, whose work is far better than the movie deserves.)Or it could be that the original tunes aren't as much fun as the older tracks here (let's hear it for Grand Funk Railroad's We're An American Band!) or Christopher Young's underscore - this man has written some very good music for some very weak movies.Or it could be that the whole thing's painfully predictable and sappy, and as synthetic as... well, as something by Uncle Walt's Imagineers. Peter Hastings's work on TV cartoons is infinitely better than this. (Please note that I never once made any obvious puns on its title.) "},{"Title":"Gag!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  The reason I always get so p***ed off at those who demand that all the imdb ratings they give average out to 5.5 (or, if their math skills are poor, 5) is because I am rather sure that most people are smart enough to avoid movies like The Country Bears, thus missing the type of movies that would make a Bell Curve remotely possible. The reason my own vote history averages out to a high 7.5 is because I can see a preview for a movie like this and say `I'm never going to see this movie.' However, once in a while, I just have to bite the bullet and watch an awful movie. As long as it's short, how bad can it hurt? I usually watch these kinds of movies with my brother, who has a far less refined taste in movies than myself. I'm sure he sat down to watch this particular movie to see just how bad it could be (he rented it for his two and a half year old). And, oh lord, is it terrible. I don't know if I've ever heard lamer jokes delivered with worse timing. Some of the jokes might have even been funny if the actors cared whatsoever, but they really don't. Celebrities pop up in thankless cameos. You'd think Brian Setzer would know better. Christopher Walken tries hard to make something out of his role as the villain, who wants to knock down Country Bear Hall really bad (his hood ornament is a wrecking ball). The script is far too awful to allow him even a decent moment. Alex Rocco, Moe Green from the first Godfather movie, wears his hideous red wig and acts like he wants another bullet in the eyeball. The actual Country Bears wouldn't have been impressive when I was a kid; they made me long for the live action Ninja Turtles. Haley Joel Osment is lucky he didn't actually have to appear in the movie. My brother and I spent most of the movie fiercely debating whether the man who drove the Country Bear tour bus was played by Ted Nugent. Dammit, I lost the bet. I should have known Mr. Nugent had more integrity than that (for the record, Queen Latifah, Elton John, Bonnie Raitt, Don Henley, Wyclef Jean, and Willie Nelson do not). 2/10 (why 2 and not 1? Well, I liked a couple of the songs and that Krystal chick is hot). "},{"Title":"A heartwarming movie for all ages","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" The Country Bears is a truly unique movie, and it can be a very pleasant experience watching it, for those with an open mind. The entire movie is based on the premise that bears co-exist with humans - they are simply like another race of people. From numerous other reviews I have read of this movie, it seems many people are offended by this simple premise. Perhaps it is insulting to them, or maybe they just can't deal with things out of the ordinary such as this. It's definitely a shame, as this movie is actually a rare gem, complete with lovable characters, fun music, and an engaging and heartwarming plot.The movie begins showing us the farewell performance of a group called The Country Bears. They were once apparently very famous, but have now all but disappeared. Beary Barrington, a huge fan, feeling displaced from his family because he feels 'different', leaves home and travels to Country Bear Hall, hoping to find a place where he fits in. He soon finds Country Bear Hall is soon to be demolished, due to six years of missed payments by it's caretaker, Henry. Beary's solution is to get the band back together to save Country Bear Hall.What follows is an enjoyable romp as we meet each of the 4 unique band members and their interesting circumstances. Fred is big softy who works as a security guard, and takes part in a performance of a very modern song titled The Kid in You, which perhaps may not appeal to everyone. Zeb is ultimately an alcoholic, although his liquor of choice is honey. To escape from his debt with the bar, he performs in a musical duel, which is a lot of fun. Next we meet Tennessee, who is heartbroken over losing his one love Trixie. He just makes you want to give him a huge hug every time he's on screen. Finally we meet Ted, who's massive ego nearly stops the bears from coming together again. Two bumbling cops provide lots of humour, as does the hilarious bear character Big Al.Characters are definitely the highlight of this film. Each of the bears are different, and watching their behaviour is so refreshing. They make you want to be right there on the tour bus with them. The ending of the movie is perfect, but it is a strangely sad feeling to have to leave the characters and come back to reality.My thoughts of this movie are the complete opposite to the majority of other reviews out there. Ebert's review suggests to me that he barely even paid any attention to the movie - he doesn't seem to understand why Reed Thimple would want to destroy Country Bear Hall, even though it was clearly explained in the movie. He also says that certain artists such as Bonnie Raitt talk about how The Country Bears influenced them, and while this is true for some artists, Bonnie Raitt does no such thing, nor does Elton John. Why critics couldn't appreciate this film is beyond me. It has strong messages of what family is, and that it's OK to be different. It's just fantastic, and deserves much more recognition than it has. We need more movies like this, but unfortunately the poor reception of this movie will mean Disney avoids making movies like this in the future.Do yourself a favour; rent this movie, or even buy it. Don't question why it's about singing bears, otherwise you're missing the point of the movie. Just enjoy the originality, enjoy the great music, laugh at the comedy, and leave the movie with a shining feeling that not many movies these days can give you. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  Unfunny adaption of the Disneyland attraction. The film  tries to follow the Blues Brothers formula of let's get the band back together and basicaly bores the audience to death in the process.. For the very young only, anyone else will find themselves looking at their watches a few minutes into the film. GRADE D- "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Movies of All Time","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" The Country Bears is truly a cinematic gem and the film of it's generation. Everything about this movie is amazing. From the acting, to the directing, the writing, the cinematography, EVERYTHING! This movie is the only perfect movie I have ever seen except for The Godfather. Personally I like it more than The Godfather. The movie is hilarious throughout the entire course of the film. It is an extremely smart movie and there is a very powerful ending and it had me crying for almost an hour! It's that good! This film is about life and death and Beary's fate. It is a film for kids but I think adults will enjoy it even more. If you haven't seen this movie yet, I highly recommend that you see it. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Oh, my entertainment lord, you have shown me the way, and it is Thy Country Bears.....","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" In times of depression consisting of Disney being nothing but high school, cheerleading, relationships, and violence, there would be one movie that would take all of these troubles and SHOVE IT!!!!! out the window, bringing forth a light shining from a distance. Yes, it is that of Thy Country Bears!!!!!This movie would belong in a category of some G-rated Disney movies that are somewhat intelligent in my book known as Vacation Movies, because it's like being at a Disney park!!!!! Speaking of which, this movie is based on the Country Bear Jamboree from Frontierland at Disneyland and Walt Disney World!!!!! And so, this attraction is the ONLY good movie rendition of a Disney park attraction, removing all the sh...aving cream gunk that PIRATE DVDS and HUNTED MOOSEMEN leave behind. So see if the bears can save the concert hall when you see the light with Thy Country Bears!!!!!10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent movie overall","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" Good for almost all ages. Most enjoyable when watched with family members. I suggest parent's watch this with young children, for two reason's 1. It's a family movie 2. A few thing's need parental guidancerbverhoef's excellent review on here covers most, if not all, of my thought's on this movie. There's not much else for me to comment on.If anyone doesn't like this movie, I suggest they chill out and open up their heart's and enjoy this film!It's about an humanoid bear who lives with an human family that feels left out, different, etc. To avoid even slight spoilers, I can't say anything else. "}{"Title":"Weird, but has some funny things","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" 'The Country Bears' is like 'The Blues Brothers' meets 'This Is Spinal Tap' meets 'Stuart Little', only less fun. The film is not really bad, but weird in a lot of ways. We can start with the fact that among human beings we have talking bears in the world where this movie takes place. Apparently that is not strange since the humans in this movie seem to take it for granted. (Kind of like 'Stuart Little'.) A second weird thing is the humor. I laughed from time to time, but the movie seems to be for children and I am not sure whether they would understand the jokes I laughed about. There were no jokes for children that I thought were that funny, I guess. A third weird thing is the agreement of famous people to work on this movie. I can see why Haley Joel Osment lends his voice but why are Christopher Walken, Queen Latifah, Willie Nelson and Elton John in a movie like this? I am not sure.The story Beary (voice by Haley Joel Osment) is an adopted son of a human family. You understand that Beary is a Bear. The day he finds out he is adopted he decides to leave his house and search for The Country Bears, a rock group apparently better than The Eagles. He finds one Country Bear who owes the Christopher Walken character a lot of money. When he can't pay the beloved Country Bear Hall will be demolished. Beary's plan is to reunite the band, play in Country Bear Hall and collect the money to save that. (Kind of like 'The Blues Brothers'.) A subplot involves two cops (Diedrich Bader and Daryl Mitchell) trying to find Beary, who they believe is kidnapped. These two characters, I come to realize now, must be a lot of fun for kids. I liked them as well, actually.In a movie like this you have to mention the music. Although some people in the movie think they are better than The Eagles and although Elton John and Willie Nelson think they are great, I can not agree. It is not that bad either, but very far from memorable. Normally after a movie like this I have a song in my head. I have this with the animated features from Disney, with 'The Blues Brothers', 'This Is Spinal Tap', even 'A Mighty Wind'. Here that was not the case. Again, the movie is weird. But between all the weirdness there is something nice that people might enjoy. "},{"Title":"Life-Changing!!!","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" This is the movie of the century. I don't know what to say except that this movie was pure genius, and in my opinion it was even better than Meet Wally Sparks and Baby Geniuses. I love when the bear does his somersaults on stage! It's so rad! The first night i rented this movie, me and my friends watched it twice in a row because it was so mind-blowing! I also love the scene where the bear is in the boat and the boat runs into the prison bars and knocks them over. The only question I have is, where did Christopher Walken go? He's so sneaky! I hope Disney keeps making movies about their theme rides, because if they are anything like Country Bears and Haunted Mansion, I would be in heaven. I hope they make the Aerosmith movie next!!!How exciting!! I also love the random music videos that happen throughout the movie. My most favorite part, however, is the scene where Beary is running home and that wonderful music is playing in the background. I do have one question about this movie though... Why was it so hard for everyone to believe that the Country Bears were gonna get back together? They fail to explain this, as well as where these bears came from, and why the bears broke up in the first place. But i don't care, i just love when those bears have their jamborees!!! "},{"Title":"It's a fun movie","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":"  This movie was aimed at children, so a lot of adults don't like this movie. I'm 21 and I thought it was a cute little movie. My sister's kids range from 3 to 8 and they all love it. It has no curse words so that was a big plus to us. I loved the . For those of you who are going bears that were animatronics, go to the Disney web site and there is a link that tells you all about them. The movie is mainly for kids so all the adults that think its stupid are it probably is to you because you are not a child. So if you are a mature adult that knows this movie is for kids, so have a good time watching it; meanwhile know that it is geared towards children. This movie made me want to get up and dance.  "},{"Title":"Awesome this movie is heartwarming","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Music","Review":" this movie was great. the music kept me dancing and singing. the bears kept me laughing. Beary  reminded me of my self . i love the country bears they are my heroes but the hero out of all of them is zeb zoober he is just great this movie brings out the kid in me and should bring out the  kid in everyone. if you havnt seen this movie you should true it wouldnt be the best movie in the world but pretty close to me the country bears are real. like beary said to meet them would be cool i will i could meet them. "}]