[{"Title":"An enjoyable film that got action, comedy and a love story&#133;","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"55 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dwayne Johnson plays a natural-born hero called Mathayus&#133; He starts off as an Akkadian mercenary crossing the ancient lands looking for his brother who is slain before his blazing eyes by a Nordic barbarian horde whose name is Memnon&#133; What has kept the vicious tyrant as the absolute conqueror of the land is the fact that he has a visionary sorceress by his side who knows when he should attack his enemies&#133; Mathayus finds out that she's a sexy gorgeous woman who looks amazingly beautiful (Surely the audience is teased ceaselessly by her cleavage-revealing&#133;). So Mathayus forgets his commission to kill her, and a kind of romance begins to flourish between the two as he tries to carry out his assignment&#133; Kelly Hu plays Cassandra, the female sorcerer who had beauty, charisma, cleverness, and enigma&#133; In the beginning of the film, we're not quite sure where she stands&#133; But when she first sees Mathayus, she's interested in the well-mannered warrior who's strong, brave, loyal and sincere&#133; She realizes that he might me the future king who can save her from her power-mad jailer&#133; As the ruthless conqueror, Memnon (Steven Brand) has got all of the skills needed to attain global domination&#133; He has also got the force and the will to accomplish it&#133; The combination was pretty scary&#133; Michael Clarke Duncan plays the fearsome Balthazar, the Nubian King, the strong ally of Mathayus&#133; Chuck Russell's The Scorpion King is a visual feast, and an entertaining action film&#133; It has sexy harem girls, poison arrows, quicksand, an army of red ants, black scorpions, cobras, explosions, and a lot of fun&#133; So don't miss it! "},{"Title":"So he's...the bad guy?","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"65 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, I'm confused. The Mummy Returns portrays the Scorpion King as some evil tyrant who wants to take over the world by smiting any and all civilizations in his way. But that's exactly the opposite of the same character in his very own movie. In fact he struggles to overthrow an evil ruler for those very reasons.So when, and why, did he become bad? I'm afraid I'm not following this. The movie, however, is entertaining, if rather short and silly. Chuck Russell tries to cram in loads of fighting and hokum as he can. It works and The Rock is very cool as said King (or Mathayus) and former Jason victim Kelly Hu is gorgeous as the scantily-clad Cassandra. Grant Heslov and Michael Clarke Duncan fill out their usual roles as ethnic comic-relief and big, muscley guy.The film has slightly less integrity to it than the Mummy movies. This is evident with the fun and lively, but completely inappropriate, score by John Debney. I'm not expecting anything like his Passion of the Christ score but blaring death metal guitars seem kinda out of place in a movie set 3000 years BC.But this movie is a cheeseburger, not a 17-course dinner. So why bother complaining. After all it's a prequel of a sequel of a movie that was a re-make of a movie that was made in the 30's. But it's well made and loads of fun so just go along with it and you'll enjoy.Filmed in Panavision the DVD is in perfect 2.351 anamorphic widescreen with very loud and thrilling Dolby/DTS 5.1 sound. The extras are fluff, but that's to be expected. "},{"Title":"A reasonably unrealistic Kimmerian movie","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"49 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" To put it short, The Scorpion King is not a bad movie - for the genre. Just don't expect it to be realistic or have some deep plot.If you have ever seen Conan movies, you probably know the setting early ages, a bunch of lost civilizations, some emperors whose armies march the world and a lonely hero who tries to stop him. Blend in a touch of magic (old technologies, paranormal, whatever - just to taste), add some slashnig sequences - and - voilà - you get the movie.Well, it sounds quite simple, but since Red Sonja I can't remember anything worth watching. Now this is the film reasonably bad, quite cliché and not very imaginative. Still, it has quite a bit of eye-candy, and, in some sense, it's superior even to the famed Gladiator as it doesn't pretend to be any more than it is. Probably, it could have been at least 20 minutes longer, but let's blame it on the rising cost of production. Worth watching if you know perfectly well what you want. 7/10. "},{"Title":"NOT TOO BAD...COULD HAVE BEEN BETTER","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"27 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Firstly, there were many great things about The Scorpion King. The Rock played a real good part and he certainly has a bright future in the acting industry. The beautiful Kelly Hu showed that she can be good on the big screen and the ever reliable Michael Clarke Duncan played a great part as well. The action scenes were hard hitting and brutal and the scenery was fantastic as well.The only thing that spoiled the film for me was the fact that it was not an original idea. The plot has been done in so many movies before. Sometimes in the movie world, certain plots are churned out time and time again and you just get that feeling of deja vu. The plot for this film has been done in dozens of movies and countless TV shows.I saw this film with a friend of mine and he really really enjoyed it. However, he usually likes cop movies and hasn't seen many fantasy adventure movies so watching this was a first for him. I have seen dozens of movies like this and whilst it was very good, I did get that feeling of familiarity.But anyway, I still recommend it. The fight scenes are awesome and there are some funny scenes in it. And again, the Rock does have a future as an actor. I just hope that his next project is a fresh idea.I'm going to really be awkward here but there's three other things that bothered me about this movie. There was a short scene with an Indian elephant in. Did ancient Egypt have elephants? I'm no wildlife expert but I didn't think they did. Secondly, wasn't it amazing that there was such a variety of accents in the film. Lastly, gunpowder in ancient Egypt? No way!I'm just getting old though-watch and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Just Bring It!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Just bring it. This movie was fantastic. It had everything about The Rock that I love. The eyebrow the campy humor, his kick-ass in your face dont mess with me or I'll shine my boot turn it sideways and shove it straight up your candy-ass mentality. I thought the fight scene he had with Michael Clarke Duncan rates up there among the best. Ok so The Rock isnt winning the Best Actor Oscar for this one, but give me a break it was his first starring role. Even Tom Hanks & Nicolas Cage weren't brillant in their first movies either. And speaking of Tom Hanks, he has the unfortunate distinction of being in the burbs. I loved this movie and hope to see more in the future. I would also like to see The Rock take on some other roles. The Rock the action adventure superstar of the 21st century. Oh on a side note the breathtakingly gorgeous Kelly Hu was the sorceress in this movie and shows an ample amount of flesh always a bonus if you ask me. Well folks thats the end of this review IF YOU SMELL WHAT THE ROCK, THE SCORPION KING & CRAZYC24 ARE COOKING!!, A perfect 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Tied Too Loosely To The Mummy","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"25 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is a prequel from the Mummy franchise.  However, fans of the previous Mummy movies may be in for a disappointment.  Granted, the imagery may be impressive, and the action is exciting, but apart from a very few details, Scorpion King may as well be a completely different movie.  In quality, it fares about as well as the average sword-and-sandal epic.  There is a camp factor that hangs over the story, that you feel when listening to some passages of dialogue.  Also noticebale are Grant Hislov's comic relief role as Arpid, and Kelly Hu as the belly-baring sorceress Cassandra.  Wrestling fans may enjoy this vehicle for the Rock, but I don't think many others will. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable! Stephen Sommers' Mummy 3 indeed!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Stephen Sommers, who wrote and directed The Mummy 1999 and The Mummy Returns 2001, also co-wrote the story and the screenplay, and co-produced The Scorpion King this year! The Mummy energy, practically a trademark of Sommers, is definitely encompassed in this entertaining action/legend movie of The Scorpion King. Led by Dwayne Johnson The Rock as Mathayus the Warrior with a heart, lovely Kelly Hu as Cassandra the Sorceress and object of beauty, sought by Steven Brand as Memnon the convincing evil menace of it all, and Michael Clarke Duncan as the equally brave ally Balthazar to Mathayus, this is your basic good vs. evil story splashed with fun and suspense - almost like an animated Disney film but with real live actors. An action packed myth/legend of a story, with humor/laughter sprinkled here and there at good pacing, along with special/digital effects, I almost felt at times it feels like the epic animation Princess Mononoke, where they have the villagers (tribes here) rounding up and backing the heroine (Mathayus here) and fighting to get rid of the evil source (Memnon here.) Other films have similar themes before an earlier endeavor of Stephen Sommers, who wrote and directed Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book 1994, with Jason Scott Lee, Sam Neill, Cary Elwes, Lena Headey and John Cleese; director Xavier Koller's (received Oscar's Best Foreign Film Journey of Hope 1990) Squanto A Warrior's Tale 1994; not forgetting director Richard Donner's LadyHawke 1985 with Matthew Broderick, Rutger Hauer, Michelle Pfeiffer, and Alfred Molina.If you want to escape and have an enjoyable action movie, to forget your stress and strains beyond the world of cinema, go for it! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Debut!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King was a well put together screen and script.  It was more than what was anticipated!  The Rock was fantastic in his debut.  There were a lot of rumors about this film, but I am glad I watched it and learned for myself.       "},{"Title":"Makes The Mummy look like Battleship Potemkin but will probably satisfy teenage boys with its MTV version of a swords and sorcery adventure film","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"27 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Mathayus is a legendary warrior but his people face a deadly foe in the form of Memnon and his evil army that is sweeping through the lands. Despatched to assassinate Memnon, Mathayus is forced to save a child and misses his opportunity. Fleeing the city, he kidnaps Memnon's sorcerer Cassandra (who he is also meant to kill) and heads into the desert. Deep in the Valley of the Dead, he intents to use Cassandra to draw Memnon out of the safety of his loyal city and into the desert where he will be more vulnerable and easier to kill.Despite not being impressed at all by Mummy Returns, I thought I would veg out in front of this prequel/sequel/spin off thing which was just as well since vegging out mindlessly in front of it is pretty much all it is good for. The plot is essentially a collection of action scenes held together by some overly-serious plot with a bit of flesh and titillation thrown in just in case the teens get restless. It is very derivative and very obvious and, if you are actually paying much attention to it then you'll find it pretty tiresome at times. Of course in my brainless state I found it to be brightly colourful and noisy which was enough to keep my eyes busy and let my head rest. It would have been much more fun if the material had had its tongue in its cheek and allowed the performances to match this, but by taking itself a bit too seriously at times it only ends up looking silly.The Rock is a solid star for this sort of thing but he isn't very versatile &#150; he needs the material to match him rather than the other way round. By having a big character in an overly serious tale, he looks ill at ease and doesn't suit it that well. Brand is a by-the-numbers villain who fills the role but not much else. Hu is undoubtedly attractive and at first I felt that she was being exploited by having her in tiny clothes and as much flesh as possible; however then I watched her performance and realised she was just playing to her strengths. Duncan takes himself too seriously and his scenes lack fun &#150; surprisingly even in the action scenes. Support from Hill, Heslov and others don't do much other than fill out the cast.Overall then a fairly bland, uninspiring action movie that lacks excitement, tension, characters, story and indeed fun (which is where the biggest problem lies). It is probably enough of a film to satisfy teenage genre fans but I must confess that there was so little that was special that I could barely care about it when it was on and found it unmemorable by the time it was finished. "},{"Title":"This Critter King Delivers Quite a Sting!","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In the '80s and '90s, Arnold Scharzennegar was the King of Hollywood action films. But nothing is forever. With the The Scorpion King, there seems to be a new pretender to the throne ...The ROCK! More charismatic and certainly a better actor (but then again, who isn't?) Than AHNULD was 20 years ago, The Rock, here appearing in his first title role, has had the good fortune that the film, and his participation in it, seems to have been relatively successful in every sense of the word!Scorpion from beginning to end, is a roller coaster of action, adventure, intrigue, romance, magic and beautiful women. A Hollywood capsule of pure adrenaline. If there is anyone in the family who does not like movies of this genre, hard not to be entertained by this minor gem. But Be forewarned! Scorpian may not be the most suitable of films for kids under 9 or 10..... 7.5*STARS*&#x85;....ENJOY/DISFRUTELA! Any comments, questions or observations, in English or Español, are most welcome! "}{"Title":"keeps ya interested","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ok we all know that the rock is a great wrestler, but lets face it he's not that good of an actor. But since this is his first staring role I have to say is pretty good. In my opinion this movie does keep you interested. It's not a total horror movie but does have some good action parts. All in all, I think this movie will do good at the box office. I can not see it fall below the number 2 spot. "},{"Title":"Finally The Rock has come back to Film!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In what has been marked as a very anticipated film this summer, I bet you hands down that it is the only one which doesn't fall short. The Scorpion King comes through with great action, romance for all the ladies, girlfriends and Rock-ets, as well as comedy, and SNL shows how well The Rock does comedy (Not to mention the WWF!). This film takes time out to laugh at its self, which you have to respect an action film that knows it is not an Oscar winner. Overall, a movie that makes you say, Now that was worth 8 bucks! and really mean it this time. I thought that the movie had everything it promised and then some. A good beginning to what looks like a long run for The Rock in film. If you haven't seen this film yet - what is wrong with you!? Go...go now! The summer rush is just starting, and an old fashion Conan-style Action spectacular is just the way to kick it off! "},{"Title":"A KICK ASS MOVIE","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this movie was amazing The Rock is the man. The Rock did a good job acting in this movie the reason why he did so well was because hes such a good wrestler. Through the whole movie i was wondering when is he gonna show the peoples eyebrow and he never did. The chick in the film was good i loved the part I've come for the woman and your head, it was a good part. There was a few good parts with some comedy in them. Overall i gave this movie a 10/10 it was amazing. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a prequil to the mummy movies!  It is not the mummy 3! I thought the great fighting effects, romance, and antics made for a great PLOT (that some of the critics on here didn't like).  The Rocks acting in this made the movie.  I am not a huge WWF fan, he was great.  Next big action star.  Michael clark duncan made for a good supporting actor, the villan is great, and the actress (sorceress) did a great job in the romance aspect. Overall I give it a 10 "},{"Title":"Seen it, loved it","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  People say this is The Rocks first acting piece, the fact the he's been acting for years in the wwf seems to have nothing to do with this.The rocks abilities to do a promo comes in great for this film, his mixture with comic and physical abiltiy makes the Scorpion King as must see film.Micheal Clarke Duncan and Kelly Hu both bring in strong performances to help the film.The only down is the length, after the Mummy and Mummy Returns you expect a slightly longer film, but it's not so bad.Film10/10 "},{"Title":"The Rock is the next Arnold!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King, The Rock's film debut, after The Mummy Returns, is an excellent movie.  It was exciting from beginning to end.  Great story, great characters, great action, and great special effects make it all into one wild ride of a movie.  It's so good to see Chuck Russell (director of A Nightmare On Elm Street 3, The Mask, and Eraser) back in the director's chair after his disappointing 2000 film Bless The Child.  The Rock (The People's Champion) is going to be the next action hero in the future, but, right now, he's concentrating on his wrestling.  After all that, I'll be glad to see him back on the big screen.  If you're a big fan of The Rock, then check out The Scorpion King.  He rocks!  Rocky, Rocky, Rocky, Rocky!!!!A+ ****** (out of ****** stars) 13/13 "},{"Title":"Good, but not different.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked this movie a lot, but I felt that it lacked one thing. In The Mummy Returns, the Scorpion King uses Anubis (the Devil) army to take over the world. That doesn't happen in this movie. He went from being the bad guy to being the good guy. I am wondering why that happened. But, it was still a great movie despite this obvious discrepancy. "},{"Title":"Perfect eye candy movie","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Rock plays the scorpion king who is the good guy battling the evil Memnon back in ancient times. That's the whole plot but Rock makes a great action star and the film is helped immensely by the gorgeous kelly hu playing the sorceress. I also saw her in the librarian - quest for the spear and she is one hot babe and deserves to be a super-star. Michael Clark Duncan also has a decent part as the Rock's friend/enemy Balthazar. In the movie green mile he played a guy 7 feet tall and 450 pounds. Here he looks to be about 6 feet and 250!Lots of silly scenes in the movie. SPOILER Early in the flik the rock and another guy are buried up to their heads in the sand with the fire ants heading towards them. How do they get out of this? In the TV version at least, no explanation is given. The other guy is just all of the sudden out of the sand and he digs out Rock! And the fire ants are truly pathetic special fx. Just orange blobs on the screen. "},{"Title":"Must see for any WWF fan.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a film that exceeds expectations if based on the press, but it is a must see for any WWF fan. It is a high action, fighting sequence filled movie that will have anyone on he edge of their seats. The Rock is excellent as Mathayus the all action 'superhero' of the story, with his good looks for the girls and the beautiful looks of Kelly Hu. It is a definite for all people. Overall a brilliant film that i will go and see again and again. Brilliant.  "},{"Title":"Fun for the shear cheese of it","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The ability to win over new fans is not easy when one is shoved into the limelight so quickly. After briefly appearing as The Scorpion King in Stephen Sommers' anticipated sequel The Mummy Returns (2001), Universal Studios believed that it was time to create their spin-off starring none other than Dwayne The Rock Johnson. Originally only taking part in wrestling, Johnson was bit by the acting bug and agreed to star in this film as his feature debut. As known by many, this spin-off movie was a prequel, to a sequel of a movie that was a remake of an older movie. Sounds confusing, but it can be understood. Once you think about it, it does make sense. As for being a well-written story,..not really. There are a lot of pluses to this film but it has its drawbacks too.As a film that tells the background to how Mathayus, The Scorpion King (Dwayne Johnson) got his name, it doesn't really declare itself publicly. Yet somehow, everyone knows by the end. Originally, Mathayus belonged to a group of hired assassins during a time when a ruthless dictator known as Memnon (Steven Brand) was looking to conquer everybody and anybody. Mathayus and his fellow assassins were hired to take out Memnon and a powerful sorceress (Kelly Hu) who sees visions of the future. All the same like other assassins hired to kill, they end up getting caught caring too much. This happens when Mathayus and the sorceress become attached to each other. As an origin story, the narrative is mostly predictable. Also, since it is a prequel, audiences already have an idea of what is going to happen. However, this doesn't make the viewing experience unwatchable. Aside from the story being a touch too cliché, there are a couple of other setbacks.The first belongs to the sorceress' powers to see into the future. There isn't any logic behind this other than it just being shown that she has these powers. In other words, the audience just has to accept this as a fact and not care about the reasoning. Yet for viewers who have a harder time shutting off their brain or are just more inquisitive, the understanding behind how she acquired her powers would've been appreciated to have. The other issue is the tone of the script, which constantly flip-flops in the midst of goofy and serious. Thus, the end result tends to be an entire cheese fest because you want to take the story seriously but can't because of how certain situations are handled. Having a character give a rather immature nod to the audience because someone went to bed with them, kind of breaks the rules on how serious a viewer can take this story. Another example is pairing up the protagonist with mildly unneeded sidekick named Arpid (Grant Haslov). Most of his comments are just too obvious to be even said. As for who wrote those moments into the script, it most likely belonged to William Osborne (best known for writing Twins (1988) & everyone's hated Stallone film Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot (1992)). The other writing credits belong to Stephen Sommers (rightfully so) and David Hayter (X-Men (2000), X-Men 2 (2003) & Watchmen (2009)). So it's not like every writer behind this production didn't have the credentials. The directing was also headed competently by the underrated Chuck Russell (A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987), The Blob (1988) remake & The Mask (1994)). Even with its cheese factor, the main cast is able to perform okay. Dwayne Johnson was no doubt the right choice to be Mathayus because what would a spin-off origin movie be if the actor doesn't return to play the role he made? Steven Brand is a worthy opponent to Johnson but it probably would've been an even better idea if Michael Clarke Duncan (who plays along side Johnson) was the enemy. It just would've been a better showdown.Kelly Hu is attractive in her own right and doesn't give a bland performance either. The rest of the cast (including Grant Haslov) also act okay but nothing that is of much importance. They do help near the end and add to the overall cheese at times but they a necessity. Cinematography was ably contributed by John R. Leonetti who was able to mimic Adrian Biddle's work from Sommers' The Mummy (1999) universe. There are lots of desert shots, while the set pieces appear grand and ancient. The action was also well choreographed and since sword fights aren't exactly the most used types of action sequences; it entertains. For the musical score, John Debney composed behind the film. For this listening experience, Debney uses a blend of organic orchestra with what also sounds like occasional rock/pop beats. This was probably used in order to accommodate Johnson's fans but the beats actually don't mess with the score too much. The action cues sound appropriate with the scene it follows and it's in line with the genre. If the story to this movie was taken a little more seriously, this probably would've entertained more.Its script is not clear on everything and its unequal tone makes the actors look occasionally cheesy on film. It's okay in some ways and others not so much. Luckily, the camera-work, action, music and main cast are able to manipulate it in their favor to entertain on very mindless level. "}{"Title":"The Mummy's distant cousin (once removed)","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If you've watched 'The Mummy Returns' you may be aware that it was Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson's first on-screen role. His contribution to the film was hardly iconic, but it appeared to be career-defining enough to give him his own spin-off movie, 'The Scorpion King.' Ignoring the fact that he was a baddie in the Mummy Returns, he's now our hero. And for good reason &#x96; he's so damn lovable! It's hard not to root for him, even in a film that really isn't that good. Not that that applies to The Scorpion King. It's great fun. Hardly a classic, but just good fun. And, I'll wager that the demographic most likely to appreciate it would be young boys (or men like me who are still into sword and sorcery etc &#x96; I think that qualifies me as a 'geek'). I can see gangs of young lads crowding round the telly on a Saturday afternoon to watch the Rock beat countless faceless baddies to a pulp.You certainly don't need to have seen any of the Mummy movies to enjoy this. Although both films are definitely in the 'action/adventure' genre, they don't really feel alike. It's basically a 'stand-alone' movie which is only related to its predecessor by the one central character and it's more at home among the 'sword and sandals' films than with the Mummy trilogy.It has a very basic plot. Every scene is a set-up for the next and everything everyone says is an important plot point that will have some significance later on. The goodies are good and the baddies are very easy to spot. Sometimes a film uses the tool of having the hero and the villain constantly squaring off against each other, playing off each other. However, here we have possibly the most stereotypical villain ever. He shouts. He bawls. He wants to marry women who he knows hate him. He wants to conquer the world and has a habit of killing any of his men who displease him. He's not that great to be honest, but, seeing as it's The Rock's movie and not his, it doesn't really matter. He fills the 'villain' role.Besides the Rock's charm as a leading man, it's also worth mentioning his helpers. You have Kelly Hu as 'the Sorceress' who absolutely smoulders in her role and Grant Heslov as 'Arpid' who basically plays the part that John Hannah's played in the Mummy trilogy as the 'comic relief' of the film.Like I said, this isn't an amazing movie, but if you're looking for a 'family friendly' Conan-type action film that will keep the boys entertained on a west afternoon, then this is it (or you're just a big kid at heart!). "},{"Title":"The Rock Rises","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Mathayus (Dwayne Johnson) seeks revenge against the tyrannical King Memnon (Steven Brand) for his brother. The King has swept aside his foes with a powerful virginal sorceress (Kelly Hu). Mathayus with the help of thief Arpid (Grant Heslov), the captured sorceress, the alchemist Philos (Bernard Hill), and a tribe leader Balthazar (Michael Clarke Duncan), he will take down Memnon once and for all.This is an ancient prequel to The Mummy series. It's all about Dwayne The Rock Johnson. His physique, his power, and his charm are the driving force of this movie. He's the sole reason anybody should want to see this movie. The plot is forgettable. His action is grand but it's his charm that make any of this watchable. He's more than a stunt person or a meathead wrestler. This marks his first leading role in a big movie. "},{"Title":"Just know what to expect","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Not particularly enjoying either Mummy flick, one might think that I wasn't looking forward to this. It's actually the other way around; with Sommers out of the director's chair, there was hope for something good. And really, as long as you don't think that this is more than it is, you may enjoy it. Think of Conan. Yes, this is a sword-and-sorcery adventure picture. No, it's not that compelling of one, but it can be entertaining. If you wondered where the titular character of this came from, well, here is... uh... some of that story. They do say that the first step of any journey is the hardest, so perhaps it is fitting that this isn't that great of a movie. The Rock has zero charisma(he needs to assign experience points to that), and while there are one or two talented actors(Michael Clarke Duncan... why?) in this, there is no impressive performances. Steven Bland... sorry, Brand... makes a decent enough villain. The kids are nearly the worst of the bunch, second only to the never chuckle-worthy, always irritating comic relief(thankfully, he gets bashed in the head a few times). While I don't understand why they went for so much Jackie Chan(meaning, with props) martial arts, I gotta say, the fighting is pretty cool and can be exciting. Director Chuck Russell(of The Mask and Eraser) gets about all that he can out of the extremely clichéd script, and makes a film that can be fun, if you're in the mood for it. Also, it deserves mention that he, probably realizing that it wasn't going to turn out that excellent, peppered it with hot chicks, many of them showing off cleavage. My god, Kelly Hu spends what appears to the majority of her screen-time with her legs entirely uncovered(well, as close as she could possibly get without this losing its PG-13 rating)! There is sensuality and mild violence, as well as a bit of potentially disturbing content in this. I recommend this to any fan of this sub-genre. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Poor Man's Conan","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Nobody enjoys schlocky sword & sorcery cinematic sagas more than I. Growing up in the 1960s, I watched as well as enjoyed my share of those predictable but entertaining Italian-produced peplum masterpieces with Steve Reeves, Gordon Scott, and Dan Vadis staged against the breathtaking Roman scenery at the famous Cinecittà Studios. Hercules, Samson, Goliath, Atlas, and the endless sons of Hercules toppled larger-than-life adversaries in a succession of bicep-bulging, jaw-clenching, sword-slashing battles when they didn't pause to utter absurd dialogue in atrociously dubbed English. The treacherous toga-clad villains exuded pure evil. Whenever they thought they had thwarted the indestructible hero, these morally depraved miscreants would rear their heads back and cut loose with gales of maniacal laughter. Typically, these testosterone-laced tales featured brawny champions out to rescue some curvaceous damsel-in-distress from disaster. Often, monstrous predators menaced our mythical protagonists and those monsters were sometimes men in rubber suits! Sadly, the new stud-muffin, muscle-rippling melodrama The Scorpion King doesn't live up to its low-brow, sword & sorcery heritage. Despite the formidable presence of WWF Wrestling superstar Dwayne Johnson, a.k.a. 'the Rock,' this pedestrian, PG-13 rated, cliffhanger set 5000 years ago in 'the time before the Pyramids lacks the savage ferocity of Arnold Schwarzenegger's two Conan chronicles, but surpasses the woebegone Kevin Sorbo opus Kull the Conqueror (1997). Long on sword play but shy on sorcery, this uninspired Chuck Russell-directed actioneer provides ample action packed footage of the Rock but very few surprises in its tedious plot. First, the chief villain poses little threat to our dynamic hero. Second, since he perished at the beginning of The Mummy Returns, the Rock cannot die, exacting a deadly toll on the film's suspense.Cast as Mathayus, last of the Akkadians, the Rock plays an assassin from a legendary tribe trained for generations in the deadly arts. Several oppressed tribes band together and hire him to slay the ruthless Memnon (Scotland's Steven Brand of Treasure Raiders), a dreary Attila the Hun wannabe who depends on a sexy Cassandra-like sorceress (Hawaiian beauty Kelly Hu of Underclassman) to forecast the future. As villains go, Memnon talks rough enough but lack sting. A tribal turncoat (Peter Facinelli of Can't Hardly Wait) sells Mathayus' ill-fated brother before his eyes. Nevertheless, resourceful Mathayus manages to escape, abducts the sorceress, and tries to lure Memnon away from the safety of his fortress.Incredibly, three writers toiled on this feeble-minded, formulaic fodder that shamelessly recycles elements from Last of the Mohicans, the 007 thriller Die Another Day, Conan the Barbarian, Flash Gordon, and The Mummy. Scenarists Stephen (both Mummy flicks) Sommers, William (Stop Or My Mom Will Shoot) Osborne, and David (X-Men) Hayter contrived this superficial but serviceable boy-gets-girl/boy-loses-girl fantasy from an original story by Sommers and Jonathan (Star Wars, Episode 2 Attack of the Clones) Hales. Wisely, Russell allows neither the loopholes in the half-baked script nor the conspicuous lack of logic cripple the film's headlong momentum. Russell is best known for directing the Arnold epic Eraser, which was a good little thriller. The Rock delivers a solid performance that consists primarily of postures more than personality. The Viking showdown scene, the fire-ants scene, and the arrow-in-the-back scene furnish the best moments in this disappointing, poor man's Conan the Barbarian. "},{"Title":"Not as good as The Mummy, better than The Mummy Returns","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is the second best in the Stephen Sommers mummy series, but rather than being about mummies, it takes a unique twist and it actually takes place in Ancient Egypt. Starring the Rock and Kelly Hu. In this, it reveals the origin of the Scorpion King. Not much on plot, but the action is amazing. The original Mummy was way better than this, but it IS better than the slightly disappointing Mummy sequel, The Mummy Returns. For Fans of the Rock.Grade 8/10MPAA Rating PG-13My Rating Ages 12 and up (violence, sexuality, partial nudity)  "},{"Title":"So, what did you expect?","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You want Shakespeare? This ain't it! If you're a fan of those 1960s sword and sandal epics, welcome to an update for the new millennium! So the costumes and language are all wrong.... well, whooppeedoo! Do you really think they were striving for historical accuracy here, or just trying to create an entertaining popcorn actioner that today's kids can relate to, just like we did in '60s. I doubt if those Steve Reeves movies were all that correct, politically or otherwise. Reeves, like The Rock, was no great actor but they both have tremendous screen presence and Scorpion King is darn good, albeit empty-headed, fun from go to whoa. I was all ready to hate this movie but guess what.... I enjoyed it! Sure, it's dumb and over the top.... remember a thing we had long ago called escapism? You found it in those old Saturday afternoon Republic serials and Japanese sci-fi/monster monster movies. Maybe it's something we need more of today instead of being too smug and politically correct for our own good. I gave this an 8. "},{"Title":"just plain fun","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's not an award winner by any means, but I think The Rock plays a fun character.  And in this type of movie, I don't think any other actor could have made it as much fun as it was.  This is a movie you can't take seriously and just have to accept it's trying to have fun.  A fun tough guy movie with an actor the adds some good humor.  It's not the lines that are funny, but the way The Rock says them and the nonchalant manner in which they are said that makes them funny.  I don't know of any movie that purposely gives the hero a Bow of Knock Back 100 Feet try to claim it is anything other than a good fun time. "},{"Title":"great battles!","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved the rock, since he was a wrestler on the wwf.  after realizing that he can be the next arnold for action movies, i think he made the right choice to show his biceps and triceps for the good use they were made for. the movie is a spinoff of the mummy, which is ok, but doesnt compare to this one.  he is an acidian, who is sent by someone to kill the lady that reveals the future to his worst enemy, memnon.  if you are a crazy action seeker, then this movie is for you. with non stop action that keeps going like the energizer bunny, the rock keeps some funny one liners with his companion, the funny man of the movie. he also is joined by the prisoner from the green mile, who also should consider a career as an action hero.  he has the build and the charisma for the job, in my opinion.  the battle scenes are so incredible to watch, you can hardly see the effects and it appears so real that you wanna pick up your sword and join the fight.  so, watch the rock lay the smackdown on all those people and prepare for the action packed movie of that year! which was 2002. about 2 years ago!   (A- B+) "},{"Title":"the rock would walk a mile for a","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is a grade B action movie and should be judged as such.  I watched it and yes it was loud and dumb but it was also a lot of fun. The Rock stars as the Scorpion King who prefers a camel over a horse-because camels are smarter! (it's a good thing that Trigger did not hear that).The plot doesn't really matter-there is enough violence,one-liners, and woman to keep most men happy.  Any movie that has its star escape by using a catapult that launches him into a brothel is all right by me.If you like the over-the-top grade B movies like Anaconda, you will like the Scorpion King.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"good action flick","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There will be many people who don't like this movie because it's corny, bad dialogue, poor special effects, blah blah blah. The bottom line is, though, that if you're wanting a good mindless action flick, then this is a great pick.  It's not filled with Oscar-level acting, writing, and directing, but then it wasn't meant to be either.  It's meant to be fun and give the viewer a chance to simply vegetate while being entertained at the same time; and it's this purpose that the movie fulfills greatly. It doesn't have some of the depth of the Mummy movies, it's just straight action. I would say that this is a flaw only because I've seen what it could be with the DVD special features.  There's a whole prophecy storyline that they left out of the theatrical release that really would have added a lot to the movie; I'm not real sure why they took it out.  In any case, if you like action movies, and if you're not a critic who exists soley to bash movies rather than to enjoy them, and especially if you like The Rock, then I would recommend Scorpion King. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A good movie filled with great visual effects, action, and entertaining characters.  The plot is simple but still keeps viewers interested.  It would be nice to have more background about each character though.  I hope to see a sequel (or prequel).   "},{"Title":"Far beyond my expectations","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As the title says it's far beyond me expectations.I thought to see just another movie in the story like the mummy and thought it would be boring and everything would be the same(locations,fights,actors,etc...)but it's not. Nice twist of comedy in it and very very nice special effects.It also has a good story line,so it's not another movie in the row of mummy's or beat 'em up or simple actions. Great and one to see. Greets El Loco "},{"Title":"Fun little sword flick.","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The question to ask yourself if you wanna see The Scorpion King, is not whether or not you liked The Mummy and The Mummy Returns, because even though the film is a spin-off with the Scorpion King from The Mummy Returns, this film has a more lighthearted feel than the Mummy movies. The real question you have to ask yourself is, did you like Hercules The Legendary Journeys and/or Xena Warrior Princess? Yes this movie has more in common with those two TV shows than the movies it was derived from. Like Herc and Xena, the film has a historical setting, surrounded by myth. It's full of sword fights where henchmen are slashed left and right, yet no blood is spilled. It's full of wise cracks and humor (The King refers to his camel as his ride) and villains and heros with physical powers that seem destined to be told in mythology.The Rock does a good job as King, he has a lot of charm, is able to pull off his humourous lines and look buff and tough while doing it, and he wields a sword very well. His experiences in prowrestling have given him the talent of having very exagerrated looks on his face, which may seem funny, but add some personality to his fights. Kelly Hu is a HOT lead lady, and Michael Clark Duncan makes the perfect Nubian warrior.It's nice to see a film that is more on the side of fantasy, but doesn't take itself too seriously, like how in scenes they have heavy metal guitars in the background music. The sets and costumes were well designed. The aspect of the film that is extremely humourous is how all the women in the film are young, look like Playboy models, and all wear clothes to reveal their ample chests. I didn't know they had implants so early in history.The biggest highlight of the film is the rumble between Michael and The Rock, in which some of the moves mock and copy modern day prowrestling manuvers. It's a wonderful little in-joke.This isn't a Oscar award worthy film, and it sure doesn't need to be. It's just a sword flick, that oozes with fun and calls for you to sit in your chair with some popcorn and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Fun, just like it should be.","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie for one reason only, it was fun to watch.  But think about it, what more could anyone want?  I enjoyed myself and that's really all that should be necessary. As for the content of the movie, I though that it was kept real enough so that the cheese factor never got in the way, but it never took itself too seriously to be ridiculed for incorrectness.  Dwayne Johnson The Rock did a very good job.  He definitely has a career as an actor and has a warm screen presence.  He's the kind of character you couldn't help but to like.  I think his biggest bonus was the fact that he never went over the top with his acting.  It never seemed like he was trying to act, but that he was just playing the part. My only complaint was this (may contain spoilers)  Considering that this IS a prequel to The Mummy Returns, how did he turn into that hiddeous scorpion creature shown in The Mummy Returns?  Why was he evil in that movie, but a good guy in The Scorpion King?  Even though this was a movie to explain his origin, it never got around to explaining his origin and I was left wondering wait a second, what about...  The only thing I can think of was that he was poisoned by the scorpion venom and the sorcoress said something about if he lives, scorpion venom will always run through his veins  Is that it?  It that ALL the explanation we're going to get? Who knows.  Oh well.  It wasn't enough to ruin the movie for me. Either way, watch it, have fun, grab a bowl of popcorn and just enjoy yourself.  The more you expect, the less you will get.  Expect to be entertained and you will, but expect a movie of epic proportions and you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"God, you people are fools...","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am a critic at the best of times, and I appreciate a film on its merit and on faults likewise. I can appreciate that yes, this film is formulaic and unoriginal(I.E. taking the prophetic 'witch' character from 'Robin Hood Prince of Thieves' et al, but are people that blind that they cannot see entertainment in its most basic form?For F**** sake, this is an enjoyable and well choreographed movie, something that harks back to the 80's and before, the Conan type of film, innocent in its projections, and its demands, on the viewer.Can you not see that this is not The Mummy 3?  Yes, its a prequel, but I personally find it a vast improvement on the ghastly Mummy 2(returns)(which was poor), and by that token, disenfranchise it from the series, even though there are many crew and writers that serves all three films.Personally I find this the logical and natutral next step in the (different) progress of the Mummy films.  There is clearly no further room for any more Arnold Vosloo Mummy movies as he now has no further reason for being re-incarnated after 'she' disowned him at the end of The Mummy Returns, a film I found to be tired and boring)so early in the series, too).  (the airship, in 1920/30's?  Turbo powered?  Pigmy mummys? Rubbish!!!To me, The Scorpion King is a natural and enjoyable rout to follow in the series.  Despite the criticism, Dwayne Johnson IS a good enough actor and those of you who disagree are blinded by the fact that Brendan Fraser is not in it(and he sure won't be in any future sequel/prequel!). "},{"Title":"Fun - Fun - Fun","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sorry people, but you guys just don't go to the movies anymore to just enjoy a picture - you go just to criticized it to death.Well this movie was just a lot fun - from start to finish.  No need to think about a plot or anything like that - just pure entertainment.It reminded me of a great big wrestling match with the beautiful Rock in one corner and in the other his challenger,  that went on for two hours.Just pure fun!!!!!!!!!  One more thing - The Rock is such a handsome devil - isn't he. "},{"Title":"Lots of action but somewhat predictable","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a very good movie, it had some lame dialogue here & there and some predictable scenes towards the end.  Changing the Rocks character in mid stream was odd, but he does a very good job with his role.  HE EVEN DID THE PEOPLES EYEBROW which was COOL.  Can't wait to see SK2! The Rock shows that a wrestler can make the crossover to the big screen. Roddy Piper & Hulk Hogan- Take NOTES  "},{"Title":"Great acting by the ROCK","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is full of fighting and chasing, and as leading actor, the ROCK does very well for his part. From this, he should become HOLLYWOOD's next ACTION HERO.His wrestling career should become part-time for him now. "},{"Title":"Excellent action movie","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i watched this movie in a special screening in the UAE. i was amazed at how good the film was. i am a WWF fan but when i went to see the film i thought it would be okay. there was everything in it for everyone. there were lots of jokes and action. there were lots of sexy female actress. overall i think if you are a WWF fan or a rock fan you'll love the film. the rock does the people's eyebrow and most of the action is in WWF style way. i think that rock will have a big movie career and im lookin forward to it "},{"Title":"Scorpion lacks sting, and makes one long for Conan.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There may be a lot of wrestling fans out there whom love the Rock. I however have to compare his acting to his other career choice wrestling. Fake, I sorry I meant to say, is he reading off cue cards or what? Not only that but the story is just a rehash of the old Conan franchise. Plus, only wylie coyote falls ten stories with out a scratch or gets launched in a catapult without a scratch...geeze, at least the rock was better in the mummy returns. he didn't have a line in it. Next time guys instead of trying to be a cash-cow spin-off, try for to be creative and original. "}{"Title":"Expectedly thin, but the action is enjoyable","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Rock makes his feature debut and proves he carries charisma to the big screen. He's simply fun to watch. Don't expect much from this movie -- you'll get two hours of a D&D scenario type of plot with tons of great fight scenes. It's a lot of fun, especially for older kids or adults who never wanted to grow up. Comparisons to Conan are obvious (in some cases, there's almost a scene-by-scene similarity), but there are some notable differences. Scorpion King shows no blood despite hundreds getting killed, and the sex is all implied (though the female lead wears little more than a strip of fabric. Woof.) Believe it or not Conan was also a deeper movie (Hah! How often did you think you'd hear that?) -- it at least had the pretense of exploring the philosophy of steel and contrasted the bad guy with the hero in interesting ways. In Scorpion King we have much more of a stock villain. On the positive side, the female lead (a sorceress who has good chemistry with The Rock) actually drives the plot in more significant ways than most action heroines get a chance to. To sum up? Fun action, visually splendid, nothing more but certainly no less.  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, and a good debut for 'The Rock'","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is pure entertainment, as were The Mummy and The Mummy Returns. It has plenty of action, good special effects, humor, and just a touch of romance ... a perfect escape from the tedium of real life. I was pleasantly surprised to find that The Rock has some talent to offer beyond his wrestling expertise. All in all worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A fair first film for The Rock","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While some may retch at the apparent cheesiness of this film, it does have some points in its favor. It has quite a few humorous moments. The special effects are excellent. The cinematography was very well done. While I am NOT a fan of wrestling, The Rock gives a better performance here than Schwarzenegger did in those abysmal Conan(tm) films back in the early '80's (must have been all those years in the WWF). Kelly Hu (Surf Ninjas) does a good turn as the seer. Michael Clarke Duncan (The Green Mile) also turns in a good performance as the rebel Balthazar. The fight choreography was very well done. The only REAL gripe I have with this film was its one MAJOR anachronism the use of steel in an age BEFORE the pyramids, which was the BRONZE Age. Other than that, I was not disappointed in the movie. That it could have been better goes without saying, but it wasn't all THAT bad. "},{"Title":"Better than the mummy","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is no Oscar winner but it was Fun. this movie is much better than both of the mummy movies. The Rock surprised me and was better than i thought. Plus he gives the peoples eyebrow and talks about the people. it's a fun movie to watch. Go see it during the matinee. "},{"Title":"The Rock lays the smackdown on the Saturday matinee swashbuckler","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the Rock has a terrific future as an action star. He's cute as hell and has twice as much style as Schwarzenegger ever did. This movie showcases all of his (ahem) assets the raised eyebrow, the grin, the growly delivery, and the buff bod. Oh yeah, and there's some good swashbuckling stuff and swordplay, and a whole lot of people get swashed and buckled to death. Good dumb fun. "},{"Title":"Please remove brain before entering theater.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not going to give you the same stout that you've already read over over. Within five minutes of the movie I knew where it was going, not the plot but the feel. It was Hercules and Xena on the big screen. DON'T TAKE IT SERIOUSLY! No one on the film crew did. SK could've been better. There were scenes, and maybe this is editing or reel changes that didn't go well, but there were spots that I had a hard time following. 'Now why are they doing that?', I'd ask myself. With that in mind, I enjoyed it for what it was-Dwayne Johnson's first movie.  Certainly beats Arnold's first movie 'Hercules in New York'.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad.  Hey, what did you expect, any way?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yeah, the movie's a spinoff (though a person who hadn't seen any of the Mummy movies would have been able to follow it.) Yeah, the Rock's no heavy-duty actor (yet.) Yeah, this was Sword-and-Sorcery with about as much substance as tissue paper.  So what?  Like Joel Siegel, I kept some perspective on the process.  So what if it was a 'franchise spinoff.'  Did it deliver the goods?  Yes, very well.  You go to this movie for 90 minutes or so of rompin' stompin' action and the good guy saving the day...and that's precisely what you get. I have some complaints.  Obviously they were really watching the budget - the CGI graphics were painfully poor.  But the sets and scenery were really pretty decent, the story line had enough twists and turns to keep you interested (yet it didn't have all that many glaring holes, surprise surprise) and (unlike Hulk Hogan) there were very few references to the Rock's wrestling persona.  Now, on to Dwayne Johnson's (the Rock's real name) performance.   In real life, it would appear the Rock is a decent guy.  His interviews are always straightforward, and he's had some good moments in both interviews and guest appearances. He's evidently pretty smart, and his wrestling persona is the most 'electrifying' to hit pro wrestling in years.  (As you might guess, I'm a fan.) But I said I was going to review his performance.  Okay, here goes on a one-to-ten scale, I'd give him a 6.8 - he's a rookie, so I cut him some slack. But if you simply allow a little bit for the script and concept itself, the Rock acquitted himself quite well.  He certainly showed as much depth as Schwartzenegger did in the Original Conan movie, and I think he'd compare favorably to Stallone in his debut in 'The Lords of Flatbush.'  As a former College/Pro football player, the Rock is big into the 'team' concept.  In that regard, I saw him trying to put his performance on a par with Kelly Hu and Michael Clarke Duncan (neither of which turned in anything particularly bad, or particularly outstanding...c'mon!) I sometimes think critics really do go into some movies with their minds already made up.  I think the Rock's performance surprisingly good for a Rookie effort. If he wants to become the next action hero, he needs coaching, true.  But I think the potential is there.  As for the movie as a whole?  If you like mindless action-adventure, it rates about a 7.1.  I predict this movie will do well, if not spectacular.  Just keep your head in the right place, and you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and was pleasantly entertained. I have read heavy criticism and found it to be unwarranted. The Rock played himself in much the same way as Arnie did in Conan the Barbarian, but with much more conviction and presence.What do the critics expect? The film was obviously designed to entertain and not to provoke serious historical discussion. It succeeded suprisingly well in the former. "},{"Title":"Pretty good action romp","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was expecting this film to be an action flick and it was. Plenty of fight scenes, and action from the start. The script could have been a LOT better, though. It was really corny in places, and the link to naming the Arcadian as Scorpion King seemed to be a little bit tenuous.I would also like to comment on the critics. I have read some reviews of the film and I do think that they are being a bit unfair. The Rock is a wrestler, not an actor (although the two can sometimes be viewed as synonymous) and he won't get any Academy nominations for his performance. Yet saying that his performance made Arnie look like Olivier is clearly over-reacting. "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE FOR ROCK FANS AND ACTION MOVIES FANS.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First off i would like to say, this movie was never intended to be MUMMY 3 as some of you are putting it, its just a movie based off of a character from Mummy 2. This movie was not written specifically for the Rock, those making such statements really need to do thier homework. I agree however that if you not a rock fan, this movie probably isnt your forte'. An excellent action movie none the less, special affects,sound affects, and fight scenes where spectacular. And who cares about seeing Kelly Hu half naked through out the movie, for all you chick rock fans out there, you get to see the Rock half naked through out the movie, that is worth it alone. Im glad i paid my 9.00 and i will be first in line to buy this on dvd when it comes out. For all you bored young guys who live in your parents basement that are dissing this movie, your just jealous. "}{"Title":"The movie does what it set out to do.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is nothing more than an action movie. The previews didn't promise anything more and it delivers just what it promised. The director and executive producer (who just happens to be Vince McMahon, the Rock's boss on the WWF) sculpted the movie around the Rock. Since it was his first leading role they wanted to make it easier for him to adjust to the big screen. They applied some of the concepts of the World Wrestling Federation to the movie. That is why the movie is so very action oriented with small bits of story and character development inbetween. The fans of the Rock will more than likely enjoy this film, while the casual movie watcher may not find it chessy and over acted. At any rate I give this film a 7 out of 10, it was a very impressive first outing for the Rock as a leading man but, nothing special to add to the action genre. "},{"Title":"Not Bad.  Hey, what did you expect, any way?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yeah, the movie's a spinoff (though a person who hadn't seen any of the Mummy movies would have been able to follow it.) Yeah, the Rock's no heavy-duty actor (yet.) Yeah, this was Sword-and-Sorcery with about as much substance as tissue paper.  So what?  Like Joel Siegel, I kept some perspective on the process.  So what if it was a 'franchise spinoff.'  Did it deliver the goods?  Yes, very well.  You go to this movie for 90 minutes or so of rompin' stompin' action and the good guy saving the day...and that's precisely what you get. I have some complaints.  Obviously they were really watching the budget - the CGI graphics were painfully poor.  But the sets and scenery were really pretty decent, the story line had enough twists and turns to keep you interested (yet it didn't have all that many glaring holes, surprise surprise) and (unlike Hulk Hogan) there were very few references to the Rock's wrestling persona.  Now, on to Dwayne Johnson's (the Rock's real name) performance.   In real life, it would appear the Rock is a decent guy.  His interviews are always straightforward, and he's had some good moments in both interviews and guest appearances. He's evidently pretty smart, and his wrestling persona is the most 'electrifying' to hit pro wrestling in years.  (As you might guess, I'm a fan.) But I said I was going to review his performance.  Okay, here goes on a one-to-ten scale, I'd give him a 6.8 - he's a rookie, so I cut him some slack. But if you simply allow a little bit for the script and concept itself, the Rock acquitted himself quite well.  He certainly showed as much depth as Schwartzenegger did in the Original Conan movie, and I think he'd compare favorably to Stallone in his debut in 'The Lords of Flatbush.'  As a former College/Pro football player, the Rock is big into the 'team' concept.  In that regard, I saw him trying to put his performance on a par with Kelly Hu and Michael Clarke Duncan (neither of which turned in anything particularly bad, or particularly outstanding...c'mon!) I sometimes think critics really do go into some movies with their minds already made up.  I think the Rock's performance surprisingly good for a Rookie effort. If he wants to become the next action hero, he needs coaching, true.  But I think the potential is there.  As for the movie as a whole?  If you like mindless action-adventure, it rates about a 7.1.  I predict this movie will do well, if not spectacular.  Just keep your head in the right place, and you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"For those who miss the conan days...","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There was a time when this type of movie would have been just one of many fantasy action epics, among the likes of the Conan movies, Red Sonja, Beastmaster et al, and I for one found it refreshing to see a big screen outing for this type of flick - though one is probably enough.The action is well put together, the fighting scenes enjoyably over the top and the acting kept to a bare minimum - which, frankly, is just what is needed here. No need for De Niroesque character acting here - that would detract from what the movie is trying to achieve with the audience - an entertaining yarn which does not take itself seriously at all and where leaving your brain firmly at the door is a prerequisite.Dwayne Johnson's lines are also kept to a bare minimum which was a little worrying at times, considering he doesn't have the obvious vocal or speech limitations of a Schwarzenegger, Stallone or Ferigno and who on a weekly basis makes speeches to thousands of avid wrestling fans. Its almost as if the director was afraid to trust him with anything more to say. Although, in fairness to the director, Mr Johnson did seem more at ease with 2-3 word sentences (e.g. Die Well...) than with anything more - and with the longer pieces of dialogue he seemed to revert into his wrestling persona. When he was doing what he does best however I thought he excelled. He did cut an impressive lone action hero figure and handled the fighting scenes with aplomb. In these days when muscles are not as popular and action heroes are expected to be more human and thoughtful this is a refreshing turn from the Rock.Scantily clad women (the sorceress in particular) are also aplenty here, almost as much as the fighting - which was appreciated, though in general what I thought this movie lacked was that dark edge which the earlier mentioned movies possessed - and at times there was a disappointingly Xenaish look to some of the scenes.Yes, you can complain that the script here is predictable, and as cliched as they come and that the story could have been a helluva lot more imaginative but hey, you're not going to see a good will hunting type movie here, you're here to see the Rock kick some warrior ass - lighten up.Obviously this movie did not have anywhere near the budget as the last Mummy movie but it does succeed largely in what it sets out to do and I got just what I wanted out of it - plenty of action, fighting and beautiful ladies. "},{"Title":"This film is good fun","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The tone of this film is set right from the pre-credits scene with a nice action scene showing The Rock beating the snot out of many big blokes. After that you get a nice brisk 90 minute actioner that doesn't give you a chance to be bored and keeps you amused with the laughs as well as the fight scenes. The Rock looks fantastic, he's got 'Movie Star' written all over him, and boy is he athletic. He leaps, he runs, he hacks people to bits with his sword and best of all he has really good comic timing. The fact that The Rock is a professional wrestler does help the action (apparently he did all his own stunts) and gives the punch up scene between him and the other rock in this film, Michael Clarke Duncan, a real hard edge. Speaking of Duncan, he looks like he's having a ball. He doesn't have a particularly big part in the film, but lends some weight to the cast, plus he gets to throw people about which must've been the selling point for him. Kelly Hu as the sorceress isn't too bad either, she looks gorgeous in an array of very revealing costumes. Yes the script is on the cheesy side (but I think it's meant to be) and the villain isn't really that good (but this is The Rock's film after all) and the film is painfully short (barely 90 minutes) but all in all very enjoyable and very entertaining. Probably the most fun I've had at the cinema since Blade back in 1998. Go see it and have a laugh and don't worry that it's a film with a pro-wrestler in the lead role, The Rock is a hell of a lot better than Hulk Hogan in the acting department. "},{"Title":"Finally The Rock Has COME BACK, the the BIG, SCREEN!","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think it goes without saying this is for Rock fans, if you think that The Rock's facial gestures are entertaining and you just like watching him for the fun of it then you'll probably enjoy this movie. He's actually not that bad at acting. I think the best way of describing this is think Conan meets Indiana Jones with The Rock in it. It would have been nice to have seen more of his wrestling persona come through but ah well maybe we'll have to be satisfied with it on TV. If you're looking for a dumb action flick with plenty of fighting and nice looking birds hangin about the place, then this is probably the movie for you, it's no masterpiece it's just an action movie with an eighties feel but with a 2002 look, also no stupid CGI stuff ruining the ending, well a couple of snakes but that was fun ) "},{"Title":"the best nights entertainment I`ve had in years.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is the best adventure movie I have seen to date, I  never thought that the rock would reappear as the scorpion king in his own movie. the special effects are exellent, as an avid movie collector I will be adding this one to my collection, and I recomend that if you are a fan of the rock, then go and see this movie, (YOU WILL ENJOY IT) as I did, it was the best two hours I have spent at the movies in a long time.  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...is the only way to describe it.This is one of not very many action films which doesn't need loads of violence and gore to be good. It is a hodge-podge of comedy, sexy girls, awesome sword fighting, good story and some cool fight scenes! I really do recommend this to anyone, I'm definitely going to get The Scorpion King 2 at some point! I just wish there were more than two films in the series!Dwayne Johnson naturally plays Mathayus very well, he's just the right guy for one of the greatest assassins on the planet.Both Steven Brand and Michael Clarke Duncan plays their roles as Memnon and Balthazar, respectively very well. The cast all play their roles well and this film is definitely not as weak as some people make it out to be. "},{"Title":"better-than-expected Conanesque family fare","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Noot as ridiculous as first might appear take a very popular series with a charismatic couple of young stars with at least slight acting talent -- replace those stars with a WWE muscleman of limited thespian talents, and a beautiful but pretty well unknown Eurasian starlet -- completely change the setting, time, and tone of the film from its predecessors -- and drop the budget by about 40% from the immediate previous film. Recipe for disaster, right? Not really. Not when the first two films in the trilogy were The Mummy and The Mummy Returns, which don't have a whole lot of quality to drop off from in the first place; and not when your original star is the dubious pretty-boy Brendan Fraser. I'll admit I was a little scared at the prospect of seeing a film starring The Rock, but ultimately I was won over if not by his charm (or lack of it) than by his seeming good humor at playing in what is essentially a neo-Conan movie. If the first two films took their primary inspiration from Raiders of the Lost Ark it's perhaps fair to say that they suffer in part by being such unworthy descendants of a rather superior adventure film; the Conan films on the other hand aren't really anything great as film-making, and The Rock doesn't really do so badly in comparison with Ahhnold; hey, at least his English is fluent. The action moves along, Kelly Hu is indeed a babe, and the film has a quite reasonable running time of an hour and half, not enough time to get me bored and irritated. The most significant problem I had with the film is really that it couldn't seem to make up its mind as to whether it wanted to be a more grown-up, violent action movie or a kid's adventure story. Thus the PG-13 rating and the rather toned-down (if not emasculated) Michael Clark Duncan character. Still, it's good stupid fun and far and away the best of the three films. "},{"Title":"Not so bad as I thought","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Before watching this movie I was thinking that it was going to be a boring movie.The movie was fun.You don't have to wait the best movie of the story of the cinema,but if you watch it with low expectations,you will be fun with it.I liked the sense of humor this movie has.The movie is predictable and mediocre,but like I said before I was totally fun watching this.I think that The rock can be the next Schwarzenegger and the great Michael Clarke Duncan,who surprised me in The green mile,has a good appearance in the movie.Like I said before,the movie is predictable and mediocre but I was totally fun watching this.So if you want to see a fun movie,watch The Scorpion king. "},{"Title":"The movie is pretty good","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is definitely underrated. To say that it's just a copy of some other property (like, say, Conan), is to give this movie a bum deal.The Rock has a charisma all his own, and the way his appearance is used to exemplify the ethnic look of the nearly extinct group of people he belongs to in this movie is brilliant. The movie has a trademark style and atmosphere which is entirely original.As a historical action/adventure fantasy epic, this movie is pretty successful and for any fan of cool-looking cinema fantasy, it's a treat. Far, far better than any of the Mummy movies that it spins off from.7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"The Scorpion King!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am a very big fan of the Mummy movies and The Scorpion King film is decent! I'm a big fan of the Conan movies as well and to Me The Scorpion King isn't like them at all. The Scorpion King delivers all of the goods. Tons on nonstop action, a little humor, and great sets. The actors were good as well. The Rock did an excellent job for his first major motion picture and Michael Clarke Duncan looked more massive than ever before. His performance was great! The long fight between the huge men was awesome! Steven Brand was tremendous as Memnon. The way he performed made you believe he was the greatest fighter at the time. Ralph Moeller looked excellent and he did great as a villain. His accent was really cool. I was glad to see Grant Heslov make a good appearance and in fact I think he did just as good as he did in True Lies and Congo. Kelly Hu performed good. Branscombe Richmond, Bernard Hill, Peter Facinelli, Roger Rees, Al Leong, Gus Rethwisch, Peter Navy Tuiasosopo, and the legendary wrestler Tyler Mane all have brief roles which they all perform well. Great music by John Debney! Chuck Russell is a great and underrated director in My opinion and directs everything in this movie greatly especially the sword fights between Mathayus and Balthazar. This is the movie where you see the Scorpion King become the first Pharaoh of Egypt! All Mummy movie, action, Egyptian, Rock and fans of the actors mentioned above must see this movie! "},{"Title":"Layeth the Smacketh Down!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a huge wrestling fan, and while the Rock isn't exactly one of my favorites it's nice to see a pro wrestler star in his very own movie! And this is a terrific movie I was a little skeptical because the previews didn't look too appealing but having a wrestler in it was enough to make me rent the DVD and I'm glad I did much better than expected. The movie has a decent story, the Rock's brother dies so he goes for revenge with the help of another group of people who also fear the king. The Rock's acting isn't that great but it's not real terrible either. Steven Brand does a good job as the evil king Memmon, Michael Clarke Duncan does a decent job but he's kind of slow in faster paced scenes. Kelly Hu is very very very hot in this movie! Ashame it's jut PG-13. I would highly recommend this movie to anybody, especially wrestling fans. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not Bad.","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't expect a masterpiece. I hoped for an adventurous escape which didn't require me to think too much and allowed me to enjoy myself. THE SCORPION KING succeeds on this level. The characters in the film are likeable and interesting and the fact is The Rock succeeded in making me forget he was The Rock. It was a good old-fashioned fantasy escape ride reminiscent of those from the early 1980s(more along the lines of THE SWORD AND THE SORCEROR and THE BEASTMASTER than CONAN) and probably the most enjoyable film of its type I've seen since then.  "},{"Title":"This movie ROCKS!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is entertainment.  Pure, mindless entertainment.  Lots of fun, lots of excitement, lots of slam-bang action.  Can you ask for anything more?  The Rock is good and charming, proving as good as any Van Damme or Schwarzenegger.  Sure, he's no Olivier, but he has reasonable acting talent and the potential to become our next big action star.  And this is one guy flick where I don't have to feel bad about the ladies in the crowd.  While the guys are enjoying the nonstop action and the beautiful Kelly Hu, the females can enjoy The Rock's hot body.  Grant Heslov, who some may remember from True Lies, is hilarious as The Rock's dim-witted sidekick.  So the film does have an equal balance of action and humor--an important quality in a film like this.  It was nifty casting Michael Clarke Duncan as The Rock's arch enemy who soon becomes his warrior pal.  The two of them are both built like horses.  In one scene, the two of them duke it out.  It's hard to determine what the outcome will be, because they're both equally strong.  The Scorpion King is a treat for all action fans.  Check your brain at the door.  You will have a kick-ass time!  My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"The Rock rocks!  Great movie!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  For those of you who give this movie a negative review, bite me!  The Scorpion King is a lot of fun, and stands totally on its own.  It is entertaining, and not to be over-analyzed.  The Scorpion King himself is turned into a hero and romantic swashbuckling figure in this movie, and far outshines his introduction in The Mummy Returns.  It is reminiscent of Arnold in his heyday as Conan.  There is a human aspect to these actors, that make them endearing to movie-goers.  They are not overly rehearsed in their deliveries, which make them more natural.  After all, this is an action movie, with very little down time - it keeps you watching from beginning to end. I don't want to spoil the storyline since the movie just finished it's opening weekend, so I'll merely say - go see it if you want to enjoy a night at the movies!  It's fun, and there's nothing to be embarrassed about - no horrible gore, no cursing, no real love scenes but enough to be implied, and therefore you can let your imagination rule which is rare in these days.  I predict that Dwayne Johnson, aka The Rock - will be a new heartthrob for many ladies, and for the guys, Kelly Hu isn't bad on the eyes either.  I spent half the movie wondering if The Scorpion King's nemesis was Russell Crowe or not - he is a dead ringer.  Recommendation go see The Scorpion King - and enjoy!  You can put it on the shelf with Raiders of the Lost Ark, Conan, Star Wars, and all those other great SciFi movies. "},{"Title":"Rock rocks","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Nobody else could have played the Scorpian King other than Rock. The entire movie revolved around his histrionics which were fun to watch. Though I missed watching him giving the People's Elbow to one of the red turbaned goons. Vince McMahon's presence in the production line up ensured a high dose of soft-core titillating stuff from the Sorceress Kelly Ho, who was more like Kelly Electric Blue. She looked good sans make up but ordinary with make up on. The cinematography of movie was pretty decent except for the ants scene which looked ridiculously animated. Plus now we all know that who invented the gun powder and when it was first used. Overall its good fun movie. A must see for all wrestling fans. One casting suggestion. Stone Cold should have essayed the role of Memana. "},{"Title":"The rock IS Warrior, Legend, King ...","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If anyone would tell me to define The Rock, all I had to do was to point my finger at this movie and tell them to watch it. It's the kind of film that The Rock will be remembered for. In the eyes of the fans, he IS Matheyus, just like Mark Hammill is Luke Skywalker, Max Von Sydow is Antonius Block and Sylvester Stallone is Rocky in the eyes of the fans.This film is the kind of film that really give the sparkle back to the action/adventure genre, due to a lot's of crazy humor, special effects, cool stunts and great actors. You don't see that too often nowadays amongst films like The Rock (not the actor; the film, stupid!!) and other typical American patriotic bullshit action movies. This film is more timeless.10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"Revives the lost art of the bad sword-and-sorcery epic","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Once upon a time there were a Mr & Mrs Rock who decided to name their son The. Having a definite article for a Christian name, however, proved no drawback to young The, and he went on to become a well-known wrestler, as well as an occasional actor. The Scorpion King is a spin-off from The Mummy Returns, in which The played a relatively minor character called the Scorpion King. In the earlier film, however, this character was a villain, a tyrannical, power-crazed warlord; here he is a hero, a freedom fighter trying to overthrow a tyrannical, power-crazed warlord. The film does not have much in common with The Mummy Returns; it bears a much closer resemblance to the sort of sword-and-sorcery epics that the current Governor of California was making in the early eighties.The film is supposedly set somewhere in the Middle East in the far-distant past, thousands of years before the Pyramids were built, although there are a number of anachronisms. The earliest Egyptian pyramids were built around 2,600 BC, but we see horsemen using stirrups, not invented until more than 2,000 years later. Gunpowder (said to be a secret formula from China) plays an important part in the plot; the Chinese did indeed invent gunpowder, but not until the time of the Tang dynasty, around 800 AD. There are characters with Greek names such as Philos and Cassandra, even though the supposed date of the film long antedates the rise of Greek culture. The basic idea is that civilisation as we know it, or as we knew it several millennia BC, is being threatened by the evil tyrant Memnon, who is set on conquering the entire world. Memnon is assisted in his conquests by a powerful Sorcerer who can foretell the future. Mathayus, a professional assassin, is hired by Memnon's enemies to kill the Sorcerer, but then discovers that she is actually an attractive young woman, certainly far too attractive to kill. Mathayus decides that his best plan of action is to fall in love with her, get her to fall in love with him and enlist her help in the battle against Memnon. (Was Mathayus a distant ancestor of James Bond? He has made use of a similar plan of action on numerous occasions). You can easily work out the rest of the story from here. The film is not quite as awful as some of the sword-and-sorcery films from the 1980s, but that is because of the advances in technology during the intervening period. The special effects are still fairly ropey, but they are not as hilariously bad as they were in something like Red Sonja. The art of acting, however, has not advanced at all; The Rock is every bit as wooden as early-period Schwarzenegger. The beauteous Kelly Hu is rather better than the ghastly Brigitte Nielsen, who played the equivalent role in Red Sonja, but then it would be difficult to be worse. Stephen Brand as Memnon is weak and Grant Heslov as the horse-thief Arpid who reluctantly becomes Mathayus's sidekick is simply annoying. Bernard Hill can be a very good actor, as he showed in Lord of the Rings and Titanic, so it was a disappointment to see him in sorry trash like this.The plot is no more than a succession of clichés and the dialogue is frequently ponderous and stilted. (Sample May the gods have pity on you, for my brother will not). Notwithstanding the success of Peter Jackson's brilliant Lord of the Rings trilogy, The Scorpion King proves that, even in the twenty-first century the art of making bad fantasy epics has not been lost. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Too strange and imaginative to be taken seriously.","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film depicts essentially a civil war in which a group of warriors led by Mathayus will try to confront Memnon, an evil and ruthless king. The story seems to go up in Egypt before the time of the pharaohs, and seems to be slightly based on so-called Scorpion Pharaoh, an obscure historical figure about which we know almost nothing. Directed by Chuck Russell, it has script by Stephen Sommers, the director who made The Mummy films, and which introduced in these films a hook for this one. The cast is led by Dwayne Johnson, the protagonist, and also has Steven Brand and Kelly Hu.This film resembles visually films like Mad Max or Conan the Barbarian and television series like Xena Warrior Princess. They are films that seem based on Antiquity, to some extent, and who seek to be war epics or, at least, adventure movies. Thus, this film brings very little new things. The hook made in The Mummy Returns for these movie resulted in a major continuity paradox because the hero of this movie, the Scorpion King, is depicted there as a powerful villain. The cast is regular and doesn't bring anything interesting. Kely Hu was apparently chosen only based on their appearance under clothing as Dwayne Johnson was selected for his ability to action roles. In fact, Johnson is far from the sensitivity and depth required for a more versatile actor. The scenarios are abundant in imagination just as the costumes, which seems to freely mix elements of ancient civilizations with other right out of comics or of any indie fashion studio.This movie could have been much better if it had been located properly in space and time. The problem with this film is the exaggerated imagination of the director and screenwriter. Everything has limits. The cast could also have been chosen better and the characters could have been built in a much more interesting way. Positive are the action scenes, using martial arts from Philippines about we never heard before, but that look good on the screen. "},{"Title":"Great guilty pleasure, featuring awesome fight scenes even if nothing else catches your fancy","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Hello sir, I'll have a sword and sandal movie with extra cheese.The Scorpion King remains one of my most beloved movies of all time. Its not trying to be an Oscar-calibre movie like Gladiator (which is fine coming from someone who found Gladiator boring), rather its just a chance to watch The Rock crush people on the big screen. Dwayne Johnson is definitely in his acting debut here - he is a big beefy guy who can hold his own in the action but don't ask him to do much else. His love scene with Kelly Hu is excruciating (no thanks to the writing) and even his comic timing is a bit iffy (save for one hilarious scene where he suggests to a young street urchin I'll kill half, you kill half).Director Chuck Russell impresses me with this film. He's definitely the strong point with his well directed fight scenes and good pacing. One of the standouts of hiring The Rock is that you're going to have awesome fight scenes. The Scorpion King's fight scenes are so awesome that I can watch this movie on repeat and never get sick of it. Its clear that they're extremely choreographed - its clear that extras are holding back waiting to fight - but they're still awesome, featuring an array of weapons (conventional and improvised) wielded by awesome beefcakes like Johnson, Michael Clarke Duncan, Ralf Moeller and Steven Brand. Some scenes feel completely staged - such as a pitchfork spear managing to land perfectly around Johnson's throat to pin him in place against a never-before-seen piece of wood - but its still awesome fun to watch. Characters often appear where they are needed, despite the implausibility. I can forgive all of this.The Scorpion King is a treat to look at - the visuals are honestly more convincing than some of the big budget fare these days, with a great attention to detail (such as digitally created civilians the size of ants rushing to the aid of a person crushed by a giant gong, despite not having any impact on the story). The sound editing is hit and miss - sometimes a sword will make a metal-on-sheath sound as it is pulled from a cloth scabbard, while in others the sound of metal on flesh is so believable it makes me flinch. Costumes are nice (especially the red guards) and production design is very impressive.The screenplay is nice and simple - Mathayus' brother is killed during a botched assassination and he seeks revenge. The extended edition reveals a prophecy played central part - I'm much happier without that. However, the dialogue and characters are cheesy and shallow. We never even learn half the main characters' names (Heslov goes by horse thief or my friend while Hu goes by Sorceress). There's some choice humour and some that doesn't land (there's no need to be concerned miss is lame even by 10 year old standards).On the acting front, the highlights include the gorgeous Kelly Hu as Cassandra, a lovable Bernard Hill as Philos and Michael Clarke Duncan as Nubian King Balthazar. What a gem this guy was - this is the film that introduced me to him. He's such a beast with his deep voice and bulging muscles, going toe-to-toe with Johnson in a brawl that starts because both men are so strong their swords shatter on impact. If you don't laugh at that you're made of stone. Brand has his moments as the antagonist Memnon, great from a physical standpoint even though he can't quite carry the serious moments. Grant Heslov drives me insane with his high-pitched voice and goofy sidekick persona.The Scorpion King is a great guilty pleasure. Its simple storyline stops it being goofy, and its awesome fight scenes between beefcake actors make it worth your while. Imagine Predator meets Gladiator with a pinch of Mortal Kombat, and you've got a fair idea. "}{"Title":"Aims low and hits the target","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With a whiff of 90s cheese still stubbornly clinging to its leather armor, 'The Scorpion king' is a film that wants nothing more than to hack, slash and quip its way to a good time. In that aim it more or less succeeds... assuming your expectations are right.Led by the always charismatic Dwayne The Rock Johnson, 'The Scorpion King' is an inoffensive sword and sorcery flick in the grand B-movie tradition of 'Conan The Barbarian', but shackled by political correctness, it hedges its bets on the sex and violence that made the latter special. As it stands, this is a moderately entertaining bit of fluff that rarely rises above and yet never falls below. A consummate time-waster, nothing more. "},{"Title":"Good enough","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a follow up from the Mummy movies. The Scorpion King never really shows up in the film. There is Dwayne Johnson who fights the evil dictator after his brothers are killed. Kelly Hu is soo hot as the sorceress who flees from Memnon the dictator when she is grabbed by the Rock. She loses her powers when she loses her virginity to the Rock but she still plays the game. They hook up with some rebels that are hiding at an oasis, including the late Michael Clarke Duncan. Such an early loss!!! The rebels organize around the Rock and Duncan. They attack the city where the bad guys are and end up winning when the Rock finally kills Memnon. All is then well with the ancient world. "},{"Title":"Camels are smarter.....","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In an ancient time, predating the pyramids, King Memnon is using the psychic powers of his sorceress Cassandra to for tell his great victories. In a last ditch effort to stop Memnon from taking over the world, the leaders of the remaining free tribes hire the assassin Mathayus to kill the sorceress. But Mathayus ends up getting much more than he bargained for. Now with the help of the trickster Arpid, tribal leader Balthazar and an unexpected ally, it's up to Mathayus to fulfill his destiny and become the great Scorpion King.....A silly spin off of an even sillier movie, The Scorpian King is by the numbers Conan piffle, but it does show that Dwayne Johnson had very good screen presence, even though the script is dire.Russell is a good director, and knows how to handle a high concept movie, but here he loses the plot.....and then some.So what we are left with is Johnson and the great film writer Grant Heslov walking around the desert, bickering, having fights, bickering some more, and chasing after the cut price Sean Pertwee.There isn't any urgency in the movie, the set pieces are lethargic, and Kelly Hu's hair is always in the wrong place.It's the Fast and the Furious of sword and sandals movies, and it just plods on and on, until the predictable finale.If your a fan of Johnson, forget this, and start with The Rundown, at least it's fun. "},{"Title":"The Scorpion King","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" From director Chuck Russell (The Mask, Eraser), this was the immediate spin off film made straight after The Mummy Returns, the film that introduced us to the title character, I suppose this one I had to watch as well. Basically, set in the days of the ancient Egyptians and pyramids, Memnon (Steven Brand) is the evil king who uses The Sorceress (X-Men 2's Kelly Hu) with her psychic powers to foretell his victories and take over the empire. The leaders of the free world have one last hope for freedom of the kingdom and to stop Memnon from taking over the world, that is sending mercenary assassin Mathayus (Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson) to kill the Sorceress and foil his plans. Meeting the Sorceress however Mathayus changed his plan and instead kidnaps her to make bargains or whatever, and he has trickster Arpid (True Lies actor Grant Heslov) and tribal leader Balthazar (The Green Mile's Michael Clarke Duncan) tagging along too. Obviously there are obstacles along the way, chases, battles and traps, but in the end Mathayus does manage to defeat the villain in the end, and fulfil his destiny becoming The Scorpion King. Also starring Bernard Hill as Philos, Peter Facinelli as Prince Takmet and Roger Rees as King Pheron. Johnson is fine as the lead character, and it is alright to see the character from The Mummy Returns good for the whole film, not just in the opening and later becoming a giant scorpion monster, the supporting cast are fine too, the story though could be a little bit fresher and original, it is almost same old same, cheesy and an only reasonably fun to watch action adventure fantasy. Okay! "},{"Title":"Pure Fun Entertainment","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" THE SCORPION KING is one of those films to watch at the end of a day filled with thinking, doing, and preoccupation with stress. Pop it in the DVD slot and sit back and let the silly magic work. Dwayne Johnson is now an accepted member of the Hollywood start squad but here he is simply the wrestler The Rock and it is entertaining to see the promise the guy showed in this first starring role. Yes the gigantic build on the man is impressive (this was made in the days before he learned about definition as opposed to bulk) - he is matched by the presence of massive Michael Clarke Duncan and Ralf Moeller! - but the surprise comes in the way he delivers the corny lines he is given the man has a comic bent, proved in later films but already present here. The story is pretty silly as one would expect from a 'committee team' product (Stephen Sommers, Jonathan Hales, William Osborne, and David Hayter), but that really matters very little. The fight sequences manage to be scary while being also funny, the colors of this ancient kingdom in the desert are beautiful, and the cast is peppered with some winsome people such as Kelly Hu, Grant Heslov, Steven Brand and Peter Facinelli. What makes this fast moving comic book-type epic work is the fact that it appears that everyone involved is having a great time with the material. Maybe that is why it is so fun to watch! Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Not near as good as Conan the Barbarian, but it does try. I guess it's the magic of Dino De Lauretis and his special sort of sleaze. Yeah. It has a special charm to it. The crew of this one, however, just doesn't have the same appeal and was something that I was hoping for the first time I saw this in theaters, but was deeply disappointed. ( And speaking of Conan, the ending is somewhat reminiscent of Conan's where the victor lurks over the kingdom by mountaintop. He did, however, knock his ass into a bowel of fire, which I guess the film theorizes is much more heroic than decapitation anyday. The only difference is that the Scorpion King is met w/ WAY MORE praise than Conan ever was because the Scorpion King never chopped off their master's head in front of him. Of course the masses weren't as brainwashed w/ the king's sorcery neither. More or less, this just happens to be a much more optimistic barbarian knock-off than Conan ever was.My favorite in-joke in this one, so far, was that the witch told the king that she had to remain a virgin in order for her powers to be intact. And she was lying thru her teeth too. That was just too cold! But about halfway into this, I was really skeptical of this chick's awesome. I mean her predictions were only half-right. However throughout half the flick, it makes it seem like she has an uncanny foresight, which is solely responsible for her lord's success. Then I'm asking myself, if she's THAT unreliable, why in the hell is he still king now? "},{"Title":"Not as bad as it might look","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Two words to describe this movie would be mindless action. There's no story or all that jazz and this movie isn't ashamed to get straight to the point without any delay and that is of course, the bashing and the thrashing. Even if you hate pro wrestling and its fake characters, you have to give some credit to the Rock for being a good actor and a good action star and that is undeniable. The action sequences are pretty good as are the fights, much better than any of the Mummy movies and this is on a different level. The plot is that basically there's a bad guy and the Rock has to defeat him and thats it. If you don't expect any revolutionary piece of cinema and just want some good entertainment plus some good ideas and decent fights, this movie will not disappoint you. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This spin off to the successful Mummy series takes a turn for the worse - why was this sort-of sequel necessary - to be only a The Rock vehicle (and not a good one at that)? Director Stephen Summers who made the first two Mummy films enjoyable, unfortunately relinquishes the directing reign for newcomer Chuck Russell, who doesn't do as good a job as Summers did. The acting in this film is also unmemorable - The Rock as Mathayus the Scorpion King does a so-so performance, with only Kelly Hu good (mostly because she is eye candy for the audience). Honestly, I'd rather see The Mummy 3 (but only if Brendan Fraser, Rachel Weisz, John Hannah, Arnold Vosloo, Oded Fehr return). An average 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good for what it was","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Obviously no research went into this movie for historical accuracy, the dialog was not believable, the acting was kind of poor (Kelly Hu's accent fluctuates between bad British and an American throughout the movie), and I really did not see the logic in getting an Asian woman to play a Middle Easterner. She really did not even pass for it. Someone who actually WAS either Arab or Persian would have done better in that role..or even Latina or Italian! But actually, in truth, the movie was a lot of fun. They had good action sequences and battles, the storyline was really not at all gritty and quite easy to follow, and the characters pretty likable. I don't think this movie really was trying to win any awards in the first place. Also, the part where The Rock goes into the harem and is surrounded by concubines reminded me a lot of the Castle Anthrax scene in Monty Python and the Holy Grail (Bad Zoot! Naughty, naughty, wicked Zoot! She must be spanked!).If you want to just sit down and relax, or have something to watch at a party, this is not a bad choice. "},{"Title":"Good Action Movie","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I am the sort of person who enjoys films that make me think about things like directing, cinematography, and that make me ask myself, What is the significance of the actions that scene? But I like a good movie where I am just along for the ride just as much as anyone else. The Scorpion King is one such movie. The Rock really breaks out in this film as a good action here, and his trademark eyebrow lift comes helps to provide for some comic relief and a certain sense of familiarity with the actor.Overall, it's not a great film, but it is a good movie, especially when you just want some entertainment that is fun and family safe. "}{"Title":"rubbish, but it's fun rubbish","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" SPOILERSHollywood has had this strange obsession with spin off films for quite a while now. With Elektra due soon in a new twist on Daredevil (2002), and a suggestion that the Halle Berry's character in the last James Bond film might get her own outing, these stories are regular. So it comes as no surprise that in 2002, Stephen Sommers, writer of both The Mummy (1999) and The Mummy Returns (2001) would create a film based on a subcharacter from the second mummy film. Using his normal style, Sommers has created a film, which by it's very right is a weak little affair, but whether the plot is rubbish or not, it's suitably entertaining to keep the audience happy.Set long ago before world barriers were properly formed, The Scorpion King tells of Mathayus (Dwayne The Rock Johnson) the first king of Egypt, who travels to a fortress to defeat the evil Memnon (Steven Brand). Encountering Memnon's sourceress (Kelly Hu), our hero makes friends as he slowly affects the history of the world.Not really coming as a surprise, yet another Sommers film has an abysmal script with countless awful lines. Whether it's coincidence or due to bad acting, the vast majority of these lines seem to belong to Mathayus himself. With some WWE trademark's being used at one point or another, the film has one or two nice little jokes inside it.All in all, this is just another of those typical films which really are dumb and really are rubbish, but ultimately are incredibly enjoyable. If you want a clever film which gets you to think, then The Scorpion King is not the sort of film you'd want to see. For a quiet night in though, it's a fun film worthy of a laugh. "},{"Title":"Born to be king?","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ho Hum.... Victor Mature coulda done this, Charlton Heston too... and Schwarzenneger.... Dwayne Johnson(aka The Rock)acts better in the wrestling ring... that being said, it WAS entertaining... and Kelly Hu is simply gorgeous, especially in some of the outfits she wears(or doesn't)...It's worth watching, just to see Miss Hu, and also to get a preview of the Eyebrow in his first major role... I suppose if one were to compare Conan the Barbarian with The Scorpion King, probably Scorpion King would win out, but only because of modern special effects.... I can hardly wait for the Rocks next movie... NOT! But I'd sure like to see more of Kelly Hu on screen....Mlionfire "},{"Title":"Old Fashioned Fun","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Do you want a good movie?  One that will make you laugh, but hasgreat action adventure scenes?  Do you want to look at goodlooking people in little clothing?  Do you like historical pieces thattake you somewhere else for a short bit of time i.e., while you'rewatching the movie?  Well, this could be the movie for you. Granted, there are points in this movie where you are laughing atthe silly comments coming from somebody's mouth and theywere to be serious...but hey, mistakes can be funny too.  Mypersonal favorite is where Duncan's character produces a lineparaphrasing here Will you stand alone before the fury of yourenemies?  I don't think that's a spoiler, that was in many teasertrailers  I thought I would howl with laughter.  My husband and Iwill quote that line often out of the blue at home just to watch theother crack up with the knowledge of the scene.  Very funny.  I likethe Rock in this one.  This was his vehicle, and he did it well.   "},{"Title":"Best Comedy of 2002!","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well worth the rent!This has to be, hands down, the best comedy produced during 2002.Ideal for a lazy Sunday evening. This is what I sincerely recommend join some friends (the more, the merrier), grab some snacks and enjoy! All the cliches present in really bad action movies are there. Hilarious fun from beginning to end.But, then again, I you want to watch a movie, stay away from anything in which the main star is someone known as The Rock. Is that too much to ask, people? "},{"Title":"An action star with PLUCKED EYEBROWS?????","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am very humbly pleading this from the very bottom of my heart. Never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever make another Scorpion King movie. If I were to write all my complaints with this I wouldn't get off the computer before next Tuesday. Just as a brief summary, The Rock gives maybe one of the worst acting performances I have ever seen, and I saw 2 of the Slumber Party Massacre movies!!! Someone should've told him that there's more to being an action hero besides making angry faces. Maybe if someone had warned him of this, he wouldn't have spent all 2 hours of the movie trying to look intimidating and angry. The problem is that he looks like he has horrible cramps, not attitude! If The Rock was playing a hospitalized patient with the worst case of kidney stones ever discovered, his facial expressions would not only work better, they would deserve an award. But from what I gathered from the insignificant plot, The Scorpion King was not suffering from kidney stones. Even as a fantasy action movie with nothing more to offer but sword fights and the mandatory half naked woman, this movie is still miles behind KULL THE CONQUEROR, which I'm now convinced was a masterpiece for it's genre.And news to The Rock, if you want to be an intimidating and masculine action star, STOP PLUCKING YOUR EYEBROWS!!! "},{"Title":"Good movie for any action fan","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was loaned to me by a friend who didn't think too highly of it herself, but I really liked it.  Any fan of action movies in general should give this one a chance.  I found a lot of the fighting to be pretty good, especially for a Hollywood movie.  The movie opens with a fight scene that I thought was pretty high grade.  The writing really isn't that great, but the movie keeps moving along at a pretty good pace.  I don't think that it detracts too much from the overall experience.  I did find the included sidekick/comic relief character to be really annoying, though, not to mention unnecessary.  From what I've seen of him, the Rock can do comedy.  Letting him take care of comic relief himself would also have served to give a little more depth to his character, who is pretty one-dimensional, but he does have a few funny moments in which to shine.  This movie doesn't try to take itself too seriously, and it's all the better for it.  I think that it pretty successfully maintains a fairly light-hearted atmosphere without descending into self parody.   "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Rock is one of the last of a legion of fierce warriors who is hired to kid nap a sorceror from an evil army that is destroying his homeland.The Rock has made a good premire in the world of film. Of course he isn't one of the pro's like Pacino or even Arnold Schwarzenegger, so don't judge him and compare him to one of the Big timers. The action is well choreographed and if any thing it is the script that needs complaining about. This is a story that has been recycled time and time again but is still fun to watch.This was an overall, Pretty Good movie. The Rock only needs to start developing his skill as an actor for the future. His film, which at this time he is now filming, sounds quite good because of all the star power. Then again, look at what happened to Gigli...Scorpion King scores ** 1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"TRUE ENOUGH TO HISTORY TO INSPIRE ARCHAEOLOGISTS","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, indeed.  Several archaeological journals - and the New York Times - have commented on elements of the movie that are quite accurate.  Of course the costumes have been redone, Hollywood style, but there are many, many truthful elements to the film.Sure, some of it is out of historical order, and there are delicious little anachronisms that any student of prehistory will enjoy picking out.But the basic theme, of the Akkadian connection to Abydos - and the importance of the Scorpion King (however he was) to pre-dynastic Egypt - is quite compelling.Done in old style, quasi-B movie mode (which works - because this is the stuff of B movies), the film takes advantage of exotic locations, exotic-seeming locations and studio backlots to tell an old story with very modern seeming characters.  Kids'll love it, and we adults can think about lots of historical connections as we watch.Dwayne Johnson (The Rock) is of course supreme.  This is chick-flick eye candy at every turn.  And the leading lady, in my view, is one of the hottest girls to appear recently in cin-ah-mah.Oh, and if you're into Cin Ah Mah - skip this one.  This one is for us entertainment-seeking, over-the-top-enjoying, Hollywood/Babylon-smitten. "},{"Title":"Almost bad enough to be good...almost","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First off, this movie is bad, really bad.  Generic actions sequences, campy attempts at humor, generic effects and a yawn of a story.Also, the backgrounds are very obviously hollywood sets, and the costumes are cheesy and poorly done.  For instance, the wizard princess or whatever is kidnapped naked while taking a bath.  Along the way she grabs a rag off a clothesline to cover herself up, some time later that rag inexplicably becomes a low cut sexy rag dress with high cut slits on the side that covers her oh so perfectly....ok.Other cheesy things being the amazing mix of ethnicities in an ancient mesopotamian kingdom (british, american, black, asian, hispanic, and arabic(almost forgot)).  I mean, the main villain is british, one of the captains of his troops is Cuban (the dude who gets stabbed at the banquet), his lackey is american and that magic princess is asian.The thing is, this movie is so bad....its almost good...almost.  This movie was right on the edge and went to neither side.  An example of a movie so poorly made that it is good is the cult classic, Army of Darkness.  The makers of that movie didn't care how bad it looked, and the movie is hilarious for it.  Too bad this movie didn't go that route all the way.... "},{"Title":"Not good but well worthwhile","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  To my own surprise, I actually enjoyed this one.I did not like the Mummy-movies at all so my expectations on the Scorpion King were rather low.But it turned out to be really amusing while of course not being a good movie by common terms. Popcorn-movie at it's best is what I am saying.Living in Europe I did not know The Rock, in fact the only one I really had seen before was Michael Clarke Duncan (alright, and Ralf Moeller) so maybe I was not prejudiced to an acting wrestler.While it is true that there are many plot holes and sometimes they overdid scenes I definitely found it to be good fun and on a cold rainy day I would possibly see it again. "}{"Title":"Verbally appropriate","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I love to watch action/adventure/fantasy movies.  When I finished watching this, I was momentarily speechless.  Not because of the action and the special effects which were done well; but because I actually instantly realized I watched a whole movie that had no vulgar vocabulary.  This is a movie that my children can watch with fascination without learning to use swear words.  Kudos to the writers and to Rock himself for making this possible.   "},{"Title":"Don't miss the audio commentary","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented the movie and being a bonus-material-junkie, I watched it with the audio commentary with both director and the Rock. After hearing the Rock I went out and bought the damn thing, he is hilarious! Don't miss when his mom calls him up.The movie is a classic action-adventure movie with a comic relief. Great looking women and sexy muscular men. Bad vs good, no surprises in the script but good use of special effects. Instead of letting the CG effects take over the movie are they there merely to support the story and make it more interesting.It's not an Oscar kind of flick but I enjoy it a lot. I can't give it a higher rating than a 7 because I'm very picky when it comes to movies but that is DAMN good for this kind of movie. "},{"Title":"Solid actioner which is fun to watch","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is a throwback of sorts to the Big Loud Action Movies of the 80s; specifically, the Big Loud Sword & Sorcery Movies of the 80s.  While this may sound like damning it with faint praise, I find this to be a good thing -- its a solid action film which doesn't try to be more than it is.  This is not like the Mega-Macho late 90s Bruckheimer action movies (such as The Rock, Con Air, et al.) in so far as this one takes itself somewhat seriously and is not constantly winking at the audience in a bout of severe irony.  The film is enjoyable and fun, with tons of (mostly) bloodless action, some funny moments, and a decent story for this kind of entertainment.  The Rock plays the hero very well and has all the makings of an action star if he ever wanted to do this full time. Think of this as an update to Conan The Destroyer.  If you liked that little gem, you should check this one out! "},{"Title":"Where's the script ?","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When my best friend bought an all new home-cinema system, I was looking for big action movie to test it. So we went to the DVD machine, and one of the available movies was The Scorpion King. Ok, I remembered The Mummy and thought Yeah, it was not to bad. Scorpion King is from same producers. Let's give it a try !.What a mistake. No script, no acting, no nothing. When there is some humor, it's very difficult to say if its wanted or not. The bad guy is ridiculous, the good guy too. And the other characters ! Amazing, they're all inconsistents.I give it a 3, because the sun is high in the sky and my heart is full of compassion. "},{"Title":"If You Smell What The Rock Is Cooking!","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Memnon(Steven Brand) is using the psychic powers of his sorceress Cassandra(Kelly Hu) to foretell his great victories. In a last ditch effort to stop Memnon from taking over the world, the leaders of the remaining free tribes hire the assassin Mathayus(The Rock) to kill the sorceress. But Mathayus chooses not to kill Cassandra. Now with the help of the trixter Arpid(Grant Heslov)and a tribal leader named Balthazar(Michael Clarke Duncan) who is an unexpected ally and Cassandra it's up to Mathayus to defeat Memnon and  to fulfill his destiny and become the great Scorpion King.Also starring is Bernard Hill, Peter Facinelli and Roger Rees.Grant Heslov is a riot as the sidekickDecent Script but Director Chuck Russell makes the best of it and The Rock gives a solid performance in his first leading role.Some really cool action scenes, While The Scorpion King is not the best action movie you can see, it's better then most over the past few years.The Rock who is the most electrifying  man in sports entertainment shows that if he picks the right roles he will be the most electrifying man in Hollywood.Hollywood is much in need for a new action hero.Sly is my favorite but he's pushing 60, Arnold Schwarzenegger is also pushing 60, Kurt Russell is in his 50's and Bruce Willis and Mel Gibson are both nearing 50.As much as i like them they are too old for these movies now whereas The Rock will be 31 this year he's young and the very much needed new blood.The Rock shows his talents on the big screen, is there anything this man can't do?He's one the biggest names is WWE history, he can sing, play guitar and act, and can hype the crowd like no other can.While most Wrestlers that tried to act pretty much failed with box office flops The Rock had a huge hit with The Scorpion King and looks like he might be the real deal.Only other Wrestler to really do much of anything is Stone Cold Steve Austin with guest appearances on Nash Bridges.I give The Scorpion King 7/10 "},{"Title":"ROCKY MIAVIA CANT ACT.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Rocky Miavia can't act he can't wrestle. The proof is wrestlemania 13 he had to pull the tights to beat a guy called the Sultan. Now he is a movie star. Give me a break. This movie is so bad his wrestlemania opponent the Sultan would say this movie is bad. That's a good name for him though. Rocky Miavia The guy who can't wrestle or act period. "},{"Title":"This is not exactly the best movie in the world but ...","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Scorpion King is not exactly the best movie in the world but have a good scenes of action is reasonable fun and good to watch. Don't expected a sequel of the Mummy, this movie is more like Connan in the Desert, than the Mummy. However, it's a good movie to see, but i advise you to watch in the cable TV. "},{"Title":"learn the difference between good and entertaining","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm just gonna say that, as an action film, this movie is pretty kick ass. It was very entertaining. Notice that I didn't say it's good. There's a difference between the two. This movie is definitely entertaining, though. The Rock establishes himself as a believeable action lead and shows he has career in movies if he decides to hang up the wrestling boots. He was about as good as you could ask for in this movie. And, on that note... if ya SSSSMMMMEELLLLLLL... what the Rock... is cookin. "},{"Title":"The 2nd best Conan movie ever!!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Watching The Scorpion King, I didn't really think an awful lot about the two Mummy films; I was thinking Conan the Barbarian (Howard's version, not the Schwarzenegger movies) - and this film struck me as the second closest film to the true Conan feel I have seen to date. The other film, the classiest Conan film ever, is of course Ridley Scott's Gladiator... The Rock is a great action hero and the fight scenes are expertly staged. Chuck Russell directs with the same energy he used for The Blob and Elm Street 3. And Kelly Hu is the most gorgeous film star on the face of the earth! Critics have panned this movie almost non-stop saying the acting is poor, the story is weak, and their is little connection with The Mummy films. Forget all that (except the tenuous connections to The Mummy Returns) - the film is inspired, entertaining, fast-paced and overall great fun. I missed it at the cinema but the DVD is packed full of great extras which took me an extra 2 hours just to browse through. Give it a go! Especially if you like Conan (and especially the Conan from Marvel's Savage Sword comic of the 70s).  "},{"Title":"The King of pain!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Painful to watch, to think about, to remember, to believe you bought the DVD of etc.... Stick with the Mummy and the Mummy Returns - this SK inflicts pain on everyone he meets but none more than the audience. This rock guy should pursue a career crushing cans and lifting heavy objects but acting is berry, berry bad for the rock.  To say his face looks like it was squeezed out of a tube should describe his leading man appeal. I couldn't stand this movie and I love movies.  It has no flow and it has no real story.  It's a bad one folks.  Fold your socks and clean the lint trap - way more fun. Bye bye. "}{"Title":"this may have some spoilers but read it anyway","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  THIS MAY HAVE A SPOILER. so you are warned.I think this movie was great. But they should have had a few good nude scenes of the mistress. She looked really good. And Scorpion King should have had on the Bracelet of Anubise that was seen in The Mummy Returns. I just wish they'd actually come out with another Mummy movie with the original cast from The Mummy Returns. I just hope if they do , they make it good and better than the 2nd. Even though The 2nd one was good too.  "},{"Title":"if you want cheap killing, here it is","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie right after watching one much better so maybe that has something to do with my opinion that it was knee-deep in nothing. Acting--what acting? Historical accuracy--give out two cities, come on! I'd say one of the only interesting things in the movie was that it made no effort to try and be a great prequal.  Knowing Hollywood if it makes more than a million profit there'll be a sequal but if you've seen the Mummy Returns, it's sort of pointless. The action was more or less good, but it seemed a little pointless at times, i mean i kept thinking wait what's the plot again? The characters would have been at least halfway believable if they didn't go flying around in catapults and survive massive fights and elements with no more than a little scrach. My advice, stick to guns unless you commit to a real fantasy.  "},{"Title":"Last of the Akkadians","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A fanciful, sometimes cute swords and girls story of events of long, long ago. Now, this might appeal to you, if you like (poorly choreographed), sword fighting and scantily clad warriorettes, (poorly scantily clad, too), but if that doesn't 'rock' you, then I suggest that you wait till it comes to television, at which time, 'perhaps', it can be seen with  one particular scant re-editing.When the spin and hype wears off this one, it might remain buried on video store shelves longer than King Tut was buried in his tomb.   "},{"Title":"Where's Jackie Chan when you need him?","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADThis is a Jackie Chan movie without Jackie.  Also without all the mugging and witty reparte'.  I did think the fight sequences (there are plenty) were done well.  It's definitely not a thinking person's flick, but I still had fun watching it.  I'm not much of a Rock fan, but Kelly Hu is certainly easy on the eyes, and it was a ball figuring out how she was going to keep strategic parts of her body covered.The Scorpion King seemed to be a pretty decent guy in this movie, so I have no clue as to how he became a baddie for Mummy 2.  There was very little tie-in to the Mummy movie as I remember it.  Many viewers complained about the lack of a plot, but the reason is that they edited out a lot of dialog pertaining to the legend behind how someone gets to be the king during this time.  Indeed, a lot of the plot for this movie got left on the cutting room floor, as is demonstrated in the alternate scenes section on the DVD.I recommend this to anybody looking for a no-brainer movie with some fun scenes. "},{"Title":"Conan the Next Generation","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Conan, without Arnold Schwarzenegger or James Earl Jones. With a bit of the Punk Huns meet the Arabs & Egyptians added. There must have been a sale at a surplus costume shop from assorted old movies from all times as well.Not bad if you're 14 and missed the original Conan, but wait till it's on free TV.Maybe if they had added Rip Torn from Beastmaster it would have helped.Don't be fooled, NOTHING to do with the Scorpion King from Mummy 2!!!!! (Except The Rock.)  "},{"Title":"Good action movie","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The problem with the Hollywood studio system is that movies are so tightly bound to the initial script, and very little on-set creativity is allowed.  Sometimes this is ok, but usually it's placing far too much trust in the scriptwriter - trust that few scriptwriters deserve, from experience.  The Scorpion King is a good example of this - a movie that is in many respects well made, but shackled by a lame cheesy script.  But hey, it's a Hollywood action movie... if you go in expecting anything else then you're only suckering yourself.The flaws in the script are numerous, but best represented by the pointless inclusion of an annoying comedy sidekick and a cute street urchin.  These feel like rejects from a Disney movie, and really had no place in this film.  Maybe they're what got the movie its PG-13 rating, which I think was actually a poor decision.  Scorpion King is a very violent film - people are slaughtered in the hundreds, and 90% of the killings are executed by the good guys.  True, you may not see any blood, but the cabbage slicing sound effects fill the role just as well.But violence is rather unavoidable in an action movie, which is what the movie primarily is.  And the action is actually very good by Hollywood standards.  The influence of Hong Kong choreography and camerawork is clearly felt, though the action is still dominated by American big muscles and testosterone in the end.  Well staged and filmed though, and quite satisfying.The movie also scores well on production values - the costumes and sets are all very evocative of the time and place in which the movie is set (though some of the CGI used to create certain scenes could have been better).  It's a good looking movie, and not just the scenes with Kelly Hu.Overall verdict, not one to watch over and over, but a pretty good popcorn experience. "},{"Title":"I'm so sorry I missed this on a big screen!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What a fun movie! I just bought the DVD and really regret not seeing it earlier. Great sets, solid acting, good costumes, lots of animals (okay, some of those animals were a long way from home but it is just a movie.) If you liked the original Conan books, this movie will please you. I was particularly impressed by the strong women characters, something often neglected in sword and sorcery genre. "},{"Title":"nice little fun movie","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Though I count myself a filmcritic, or hard to please viewer,this movie charmed me from the beginning.Why? well... It doesn't have bloody fight scenes like conan, excalibur... no largebattles like braveheart, pretty standard storyline with ... the hero, thebeautiful woman (who of course will fall in love with the hero) the (not so) funny sidekick -he has his moments ... but not every scene he's inand, yes, the scientist... and the evil archvillain...did I mention at times lame cgi graphics (though the first scene with the fire ants I found more convincing that the scarab scene from mummy 1 and mummy 2) Did I mention a PG rating? (I didn't check, it has no blood and a kid that doens't die so it MUST have a PG raring)then why?Because it's fun... it's one of those feel good movies, conan was quite grimm, dark, sad ... you didn't feel better when he conquered evil at the end of the movie... so did braveheart had a sad depressing ending.AND it's not that bad, the Rock obviously knows he can't act, so he uses it to his advantage... he takes his character a little over the top.chuck russel stays far away from glorifing the rock (or his character), like giving him godlike appearences or making him somekind of messias-so the movie scores low on the irritation barSome scenes are very unrealistic, but brought with the right amount of humour to make them work... so you won't mind a little less realism, but they keep far away from stretching our (the viewers) goodwill to turn this movie in another hercules or xena (thank god for that)It's like one of those movies where everyone had a great time while shooting it and that shows on screen... so grab your bag of pop-corn, forget the more intellectual movies, these kind of movies don't need a twisted, unpredictable plot. So what if not all the cgi effects ware credible (at least they are more credible then most used in mummy 2!) So what if the main character can't act and the beautiful maiden in distress only has to be beautiful (and my god she is ...) So what it has a kid in it (hat least he's no macaulay culkin)It has a muscleboy for hero and well choreographed action sceneslaced with a lot of humour (the first scenes were even reminiscent of jackie chan) That's all these films needso sit back and enjoy, it isn't meant to puzzle you, it's pure entertainment!  "},{"Title":"Hollywood Crap","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well what can I say about this movie?. It was a big disappointment. It started nice but soon everything that i dont like in movies appeared. Why do they always have to put a child part in the movie?. You always know how its going to end then. If the director wants to do a child movie, do a disney movie or a comedy. I want to see action and nothing else when I rent this kind of movies.The acting in the movie is okay but nothing more(no oscar winners here -) ). Well the ending was just like I thought it would be(ridiculous). If you want to see movies of these kinds you should watch Conan the Barbarian or Conan the Destroyer. The acting in those movies are not greater than this but they are more entertaining. 4/10  "},{"Title":"Grade C for Cheesy","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Were we disappointed.  We were expecting the story to be the long version of the brief Scorpion King description presented in the second Mummy movie and instead we were served typical bad Hollywood prehistoric tripe.Very difficult to take serious or even light-heartedly and the only reason we watched it to the end was because there was plenty of material to at which joke and poke fun.Look, why oh why is it that whenever Hollywood wants to show some sort of pre-technological society there is a rope bridge in there somewhere?  Well Scorpion King has one and it goes NOWHERE!  That's right folks, to create the 'ancient mood' the makers of this film made a rope bridge that only crosses the street, but hey, it sure gives you that 'out of the can' primitive feel.I'd be real upset if I paid to watch this in the theater.  "}{"Title":"A good movie.","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is a memorable movie to say the least. It has a very unique storyline that you can stay interested in throughout the movie. Strong performances from The Rock, Kelly Hu, Michael Clark Duncan, and Grant Heslov make this movie even more enjoyable. It's really hard not to give this movie a pretty good rating because, hey it's pretty good. Overall 6.2 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"What are you people on?","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's really sad to me that people look at this movie as entertainment. I recently read a review that stated that Dwayne's acting is Awesome and so realistic! What are you people on? The acting by Dwayne was everything BUT realistic. I liked both of the Mummy movies, but this one makes me want to shoot myself for ever liking this series! There is virtually no plot of interest. Scorpion king... he is brutal, and mean and OH YEH! HE CAN'T ACT! I'm sorry but this is the reason that the overall rating of this movie is soo far below that of first two. Wrestling is wrestling. It is fake and not half-bad, but people know it's wrestling. They know that it's stupid and dumb and entertaining and that you don't have to know how to act to get a job on WWE, but in a serious role in a movie where you need to know how to act and not just give stupid looks to make you brain-dead fans shout and scream go dwayne. Between you and me, stick to the WWE because you're certainly not ready for hollywood and I will be damned if I have to sit through another mummy movie starring The Rock. THE SCORPION KING RATED PG-13 for Scenes of action/violece and partial nudity. ACTING * 1/2 PLOT ** ACTION **1/2 ENTERTAINMENT 1/2* OVERALL * 1/2 "},{"Title":"Better than imagined, but that doesn't say much.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers.The soundtrack of The Scorpion King was composed by John Debney.  It had some nice themes, and even a piece of music that sounded like it could rival John Williams' Duel of the Fates.  The music even added in some great hard rock themes that blended well with orchestra.Why do I mention this first?  It always irritates me when a deserving composer is cheated of his music.  This movie's soundtrack contains nothing of what is in the movie.  I hate that.Yes, the music was good, but on to other things.  This movie is the prequel to the Mummy series which were such a success.  I must say it was a nice addition, since it didn't completely destroy the series' plot.  It showed Mathayus' coming of power quite nicely, but failed to see him for what he truly was.We see him as a bloodthirsty tyrant in The Mummy Returns, yet he is nothing like this in The Scorpion King.  Instead, he is a totally different character (not unlike Mission  Impossible's Ethan Hunt).  He aids a young boy, falls in love with a sorceress, cares for his brother, and wants to do the right thing.  Like I said, a total contrast.  I suppose the creators of this movie just couldn't make Mathayus be a bad guy.For most of the movie we see plenty of action sequences.  In fact, I think that's all the movie was, really.  Just there to show us the Rock's brawn.  It failed to deliver a decent plot or good character development (although one character is a great comic relief).  The action sequences were nicely done, but we all know that one man against a hundred foes is likely to fail.  The Scorpion King is just like any of those other movies that gives us a hero who can withstand anything.  In fact, he takes an arrow in his bare back toward the end and keeps on fighting.I'd love to go on about this movie, but there's not much more to say considering how shallow it was.  I will say that I was extremely skeptical before I saw it, but a little impressed when I did see it.  It may or may not be worth your time.  It just depends on how much you like the wrestling/male-soap-opera industry, I suppose. "},{"Title":"Should've been The Pathetic Acting King","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sorry, I'm still in mental and emotional pain after watching that horrfic prequel to the new Mummy Movies called The Scorpian King. This sad attempt to cash in on the franchise has left me feeling that the Mummy and the movies should be buried back up in one of the tombs in the Valley of the Kings in Egypt. What a terrible actor Dwayne Johnson (aka the Rock) really is. They should refer to him as The Dud. Hulk Hogan would have been a better choice to play the king..at least he'd entertain me with his bantering. My first question is, when and where did this take place? For a while I thought they were in Egypt or somewhere in the general geographic area? Then I wondered why everyone resembled white anglo-saxons? Where they in the Germanic regions (seeing that there was way too much vegetation and trees that were not indiginous to the region? Then I was wondering why there was such an ecletic arrangement of costumes, you had viking wannabees, Aztec Indian attire, dispondant poor European, and my personal favorite, the goons were all dressed like the bad guys in Indiana Jones and the temple of doom, come to think of it, those were the same guys from that movie? This movie was extremely painful to watch, with all the predictable plot points, one line gags and typical climatic ending that was so far fetched that I found myself verbally shouting my displeasure in this waste of film. I guess they had to find someone just as pathetic to play the nemesis to the Rock by picking an a British Actor (who had a British accent) to play the evil King. I loved the fact that the evil King sported a huge Mullet...See this proves that this Redneck hairstyle was popular over 3000 years ago. The goofy sidekick was deserving of a death depicted by the vision of the overly beautfied sorceress, who's acting was as transparent as her visions. Ok, she did have one redeeming quality..the less clothes she wore, the better. By far this film is a complete waste of time to watch, non entertaining, and a waste of money to be sent renting it. If any Movie Producer reads this comment, please do me a favor...DON'T CAST THE ROCK IN ANYTHING ELSE. And if you're one of those die hard wrestling fans that feels that the Rock is truly the King, your just as pathetic as he.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  'The Mummy' was vastly better than my low expectations and a whole lot of fun, 'The Mummy Returns' kind of sucked but the last 45 minutes was almost as good as the original movie. From the preview footage of 'Scorpion King' I'd expected it to be at least an enjoyable barbarian romp and was very disappointed. It's not so much a bad movie as just highly predictable like Lara Croft from 'Tomb Raider', the Scorpion King is an invincible superhero who always wins so there's no tension whatsoever in the movie; I mean, seriously, did you _ever_ think at any point during the course of the movie that he wouldn't win the day and get the girl?It's my considered opinion that people who write this kind of movie should be forced to watch the Indiana Jones trilogy at least a couple of dozen times first so that they know how to write it properly; it's much easier to empathise with a character who's portrayed as human, who gets hurt and loses at times than with a superhero who just has to turn up to win. And they obviously _have_ watched 'Temple of Doom' at least once since they ripped off one of the jokey moments from that movie.Still, the movie has its moments and Kelly Hu is cute, it's just nowhere near as much fun as it should have been; as someone else said, throughout the movie I felt as though I was watching a Xena/Hercules episode with higher production values and a weaker script. If you're 12 you'll probably enjoy it, if not, do yourself a favor and rent the Indiana Jones trilogy instead. "},{"Title":"Come on people, what did you expect?","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Some people have panned this movie for everything from poor acting to bad writing, but, come one, what did you really expect?  I knew from the trailer that this wasn't going to be a classic.  But, since The Rock is funny, it had to be entertaining (the underlying point of all cinema, right?).  And it was.  I think The Rock has the potential to be a fantastic movie star.  He's funny and sexy and can at least deliver his lines.  The writing in this was the problem.  It's hard to be profound when the lines are trite and hacked (something that hurt all the performances, not just The Rock's).  But, all in all, this movie has great action scenes, good one-liners and a generally good group of actors.  If you want deep meaning and an emotionally moving storyline, rent Ghandi.  If you just want fun, rent The Scorpion King.  An 8 out of 10 for fun. "},{"Title":"A Wrestler Who Can Act???  What's this world coming to?","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm comin' right out with it  When the Scorpion King was featured in the Mummy I just knew I would hate it.  I've never like movies where a well-known actor has had the lead role.  Having said that, I've liked many where they were in the film; The Princess Bride, Predator, and others.  However, most of them stink when the wrestler wants to hog the lead role in a film that might have been, otherwise, pretty good.  Television shows included.  Now, The Scorpion King was different, to say the least.  The Rock even had some 'Schwartzenagger-esque' comments and one-liners that did nothing for the movie, but coming from him, somehow, they were okay.  He's got real acting talent; I'd say.  Hell, at least as much as Arnold (and I like a lot of his movies for their genre).  The Rock even holds a lot over actors like Segal, Van Damme, that I can think of, right now.  He even toned down some of his wrestling cockiness for this role (though, not much).  I will definately watch any other movie he makes, now.  And there's hope for wrestlers after getting their noggins bashed in many times.What worked  The special effects were quite cool and not over-used where it could be helped.  I've never heard of the lead female actress, either, but she was good, too.  In fact, all the performances were good for the genre... though, like one other comment was made, could have been better.  It had it's share of cheese filling, but it was a fun movie to watch and I'm sure I'll buy it for the fighting sequences, alone.What didn't work  Which brings me to one of the things that didn't really 'jive' with me.  The lead antagonist role.  By visual comparison, there was no way that guy could have matched with The Rock, even by physique.  Not that brawn and muscle should always prevail, but this guy (for half of the movie) I was sure he was Billy Ray Cyrus.  He isn't, of course, but he just didn't seem like a formidable foe for this viewer.  Sure, he could have skills, but so did the Acadian (Sp.?) if not more so as an assasin trained for life.***Spoiler*** - One would know from the beginning of the movie that the little twerp was no match for The Rock's character.  But, I'm sure the movie wasn't really trying to hide the final outcome.  ***Spoiler Over***!!!I give this one 7/10 - Definately could have been better, but I'm glad it was as good as it was.  A MUST SEE!!  For action fans.thank you "},{"Title":"Pretty Stupid","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King was one of the worst prequels out there, actingis terrible, story is boring and the fight scenes are over-done. I wasdissapointed, The Mummy and The Mummy Returns were greatmovies that had great acting, and an interesting story. But it alsohad that Indiana Jones feel to it, nothing lie that is present here(exept maybe when The Rock uses a rolling gong as a shieldfrom Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom).One thing that made me laugh was the movies soundtrack, comeon, heavy metal music only made the movie even MORE  unbearable to watch.5*'s/10*'s "},{"Title":"Very interesting action film.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't expect a whole lot from this movie when I rented it yesterday.  I am not a fan of wrestling.I was pleasantly surprised by the action sequences and the humor in this movie.  The most awesome highlights were the special effects.  I would recommend this movie to anyone that liked any the first Conan movie.  The film contains similar period fighting but is much less graphic (sexually and violence) that Conan.  A Great watch for children 15 and older. "},{"Title":"Not the PreQuel I was expecting.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I purchased this DVD with the expectation that it would be of the caliber of the Mummy movies - and being a prequel thereto (the history of the Scorpion King himself).  Not!  If you like swordfights, this movie is for you.  And I don't mind a good swordfight, but I expected this film to have more of the making of the Scorpion King.  The only thing Scorpion related to him getting the Scorpion-poison-laced arrow in his leg.  OK, so what? I think they could have played the scorpioon thing up a little better or differently to make a better association.  They called him the Scorpion King only at the end.  Why?  Because of the poisoned arrow?  Please! I gave this a '3' rating since it did not hold up to my expectations - I didn't think I was purchasing a Swashbuckler.  And the Rock music playing during the swordfights was inappropriate.  I suspect that there will be a sequel that fills in the gap to the Mummy series, as this one didn't do those movies justice.  If so, to be sure, I will rent that one first before buying it. "}{"Title":"All action and barely any dialogue","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are looking for a dialogue-heavy movie, try watching something else. If not, sit down and get ready to watch a movie filled with action and lots of sword fights. The Scorpion King basically follows this formula throughout the movie sword fight... dialogue... sword fight... sword fight... dialogue... sword fight. This is okay with me! The fights are well choreographed and shot at attractive angles. For those wary of gore have no fear. In this movie you hear most of the fatal blows, instead of seeing them and the gore that would ensue. The Rock has a genuine screen presence and I hope he gets the chance to play action-hero in some more movies. He really held his own amongst more seasoned actors. The Scorpion King is very different from the Mummy movies, but it still manages to be an entertaining venture. "},{"Title":"To all you guys who think this movie sucked...","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What is the point of any movie?  To entertain!  Why do you think celebrities are called entertainers?  For chrissakes people, if you hate the movie sooooo much, why bother letting the world know?  This is 12-year-old attitude for freaking sakes (and I honestly think most of you are older than that)!  Not only is it offensive to certain people to read, it's pointless to even write.  Rock is new to acting, what should anyone expect?  If you truly think he sucked, fine.  It wasn't meant to be taken seriously, which is why they had all this stuff like firing 3 arrows at once that sent guys through walls, dumb one-liners, chinese powder, etc etc etc.  Grow up, people!  Give movies credit when they deserve it.  Scorpion King does and you know it.  Thanks for your time. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch low quality film.","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  (spoilers?)In other words, leave your brain at the door type movie. Certainly was fun to watch.  Especially Kelly Hu.  Having fun half naked throughout the film.  Sure what guy wouldn't enjoy that? ALthough I thought the action was a tad toned down.  At times I thought I turned on Waterworld by mistake.  Right down to the idiot inventor.I was disappointed that the character doesn't live up to the name of the movie.  The Scorpion King has nothing to do with scorpions.  Which he doesn't even like.  Perhaps they were talking about Memnon.  You used scorpions.And whats up with that dvd case?  Has these two worthless locking tabs on them.  Utterly silly.5/10Quality 3/10 Entertainment 9/10 Replayable 9/10 "},{"Title":"Buzz Lightyear saves the world from a not-nice man!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, this one won't win many Oscars... but it's fun, has some witty wisecracks in it, and of course Kelly Hu wearing practically nothing has to count for something on the watchability scale.  -)  This is one of those movies where you know what you're going to get before the curtain goes up -- the only question is how well did they do it?  In this case, fairly well.  They did it up with special effects, dramatic scoring, nicely choreographed fight scenes, etc., but never quite took their tongues out of their cheeks entirely.  6/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Hard-hitting action with little or no brains","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  What good is there to say about this movie? There's little one can expect from a professional wrestler in his first major film debut. Yet, for all this film is worth, it is salvaged somewhat by its hardhitting action scenes, reminiscent of Kull the Conqueror.This movie sports lots of mistakes. Right from the opening scene I knew it would be difficult to treat this film seriously. A bow that fires three or four arrows at once with unerring accuracy? Arrows that send their targets flying through walls? Chinese gunpowder, makeshift telescopes, and weapons made of steel existing in a time long before the pyramids were built?Almost every fight scene sports heavy-metal rock music wailing in the background....not very realistic can you say? I tell you people, this film reeks of Kull the Conqueror which is no better. Compare the two and you should find many alarming similiarities.But what is worst of all is the fact that I immediately noticed two rip-offs from other blockbusters. The scene of the Rock being catapulted out a window is re-hashed from Kevin Costner's Robin Hood, isn't it? Never mind that, here's another, even worse one the scene of the Rock escaping arrows by using a large gong as a shield is a direct ripoff from Harrison Ford's Temple of Doom.Just like Alien Resurrection which disgraced the entire, distinguished Alien series, The Scorpion King disgraces the whole Mummy series. Avoid it at all costs.My rating 5/10. Hard-hitting, trashy action with no brains. "},{"Title":"The new and improved 'Conan'","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not bad ! Since the movie is a vehicle for wrestling superstar The Rock and promotions for it were squeezing 'the Mummy' into every sentence (they forgot to mention it did not have a Mummy-like budget) I thought this would be a disaster. However it's got a lot going for it. Good action, reasonable CGI, Steven Brand is impressive as the evil king Memnon and The Rock at least does better than Schwarzenegger did in Conan ! flaws ? Well there's not much of a script and they could have left out the obligated side-kick for once.If you're looking for 90 minutes of pure entertainment,nothing more nothing less, you've found it. "},{"Title":"Not Great, Too Funny, Arnold-like movie","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this movie at premiere at my local Movie-Theater and I had the time of my life. The actors delivered their lines in such a way, that I could not stop laughing, it was just to funny sometimes. Arnold Schwarzenegger could have played the part of the Scorpion King if he had been 15-20 years younger. Scorpion King reminds of Arnold's first movie Hercules in New York they are both of the same poor quality and its my opinion , that they both only should be viewed and released on VHS/DVD.  "},{"Title":"I definitely can smell what The Rock is cookin'!!!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  SPOILERSWhile I rarely ever watch the WWF, I like The Rock and find him to be a very charismatic performer and I loved him in this movie.  He stars in a prequel/spinoff of The Mummy Returns and makes you BELIEVE that he is Schwarzenegger's successor as an action hero.  Michael Clarke Duncan was enjoyable as, I supposed you could say, his Little John to The Rock's Robin Hood.  In addition to to these two is Kelly Hu as an absolutely HOT magician, a bunch of Amazonion babes, a goofy but funny sidekick, a mischievous kid and scientist who rebel against the delightfully vicious Memnon.  This was a good, dumb popcorn flick.  The only thing missing was a more thorough look at how the Scorpion King goes from a promising king to an evil man who makes a pact with the dark god Anubis. "},{"Title":"Real Disappointing","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was really a bit disappointed after watching this movie.A lot of people think the Rock did well in the movie,but I am not a Rock fan and i don't think he is a good actor.The story almost has nothing to do with the Mummy and the Mummy Return. "},{"Title":"What can you expect from a wrestler?","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Scorpion King was as I expected, and I had very low expectations for this movie.A wrestler in the leading role is not promising, and the acting by The Rock wasn't impressive. It was supposed to have been an action adventure movie with some comedy stuff, but it failed to be funny and the complete story was poor.Some scenes in the movie were completely stolen from other movies. One of them was where Mathayus was fired from the catapult, it has been seen in Robin Hood Prince of Thieves. Another scene was a copy of the Hong Kong-scene in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom where Indy uses the gong as a shield.I would also like to criticise the use of censorship in this movie. In a movie like this you would expect to see blood, but I didn't see blood even once. It's not that I'm blood thirsty but the movie shouldn't be censored in this way, it's a step backwards for the American film industry. Hollywood could learn a little from the Europeans at this subject or American movies from the 80's.Scorpion King is not a good movie in any way, but there are worse movies on the market, I will rate Scorpion King 4/10.  "}{"Title":"Mummy and Mummy 2, they were stupid and entertaining. This was just stupid. Walked out.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First 5 minutes were like a rock video, then it got worse. It calmed down a bit, he churned out a few Schwarzenneggeresque lines, did some super-human feats, stopped being super-human at other times. I know it wasn't supposed to be believable, but it should have been consistent. There didn't seem to be any continuity. My date couldn't take any more. We left. I liked Mummy and Mummy 2, they were stupid and entertaining. This was just stupid. "},{"Title":"What did you expect?","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a wrestling fan, then you would probably like this movie.  If you aren't, then you'd probably have to be a woman that thinks the Rock is good looking, to like this movie.  I am a huge Rock fan, and wasn't really expecting much going in.  So when I came out, I was actually satisfied.  The Rock didn't make a fool of himself, the action was cool, there were some nice women, and some jokes.  The perfect movie formula for a man wanting to kick back and be entertained. The Rock has definitely succeeded in making the best movie ever for a wrestler.  I was also a big Hogan fan, but his movies were brutal.If you don't want to think much, and just be entertained, watch this movie.  If you're expecting a movie that provokes thought, and emotion.....don't. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Overhyped crap","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Another example of summer film hype. This movie isnt even related to the Mummie Returns,even that film sucked to. Spend your money on something decent this summer like time machine. And tell the makers of these sorry would be sequel movies were not going to take it. "},{"Title":"Definitely not Shakespeare, but this film does possess its moments.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Just remember you are not watching Shakespearean actors bringing to life a great piece of literature and you won't be too disappointed!  Although this movie does drag a bit and is way over the top, The Scorpion King still is a fun movie for filmgoers who don't want to think too much.  However, I was amazed that some real places and names were used.  For instance, the villain Memnon is actually the name of an ancient Egyptian statue and a character in The Iliad.  The setting of Gomorrah is one of the most wicked cities mentioned in the Bible. Finally, many of the other names, settings, and even some of the costumes and actions of the characters are historically accurate, so somebody did their homework.  In some ways, the movie reminded me a little bit of The Epic of Gilgamesh, an ancient piece of literature where the hero and villains are way over the top.  However, the film's directors and producers do need to know that they did not have bikini wax in ancient times! "},{"Title":"I smell what The Rock is cooking and it smells like CRAP!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Formulaic, cliched, Hollywood crap.  I'm not saying that everything that Hollywood churns out lacks creativity.  But The Scorpian King, like the Mummy movies, is a prime example of a major studio realizing that they can get away with producing a movie that doesn't require too much brain power but is nonetheless sure to make big bucks.  Here is the recipe for success when it comes to a movie like this 1 supposedly charismatic wrestler - whose cast because of his physique and pathetically annoying facial expressions, rather than for his acting ability; a handful of over extravagant fight scenes that incorporate cartoonish sound effects; 1 great looking, barely dressed actress - just in case the testosterone induced fight scenes aren't enough to attract the male demographic; oh and lets not forget the numerous one-liners left over from Brendan Fraser's Mummy dialogue. It may be a little silly to point out historical inaccuracies of a movie aimed at fans of wrestling and Zena Warrior Princess.  But c'mon people this movie incorporates gun powder and a dessert that is more ethnically diverse than New York City.  How about the scene where The Rock is oogled at by supermodel/prostitutes - sorry guys, but I don't think they had silicone back then.  I also seriously wonder if I'm the only one who spotted the shameless theft from Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom where The rock escapes arrows by running behind a rolling gong.  The only difference between this scene and the one in Temple was that Indy was escaping machine gun fire.The movie seems like it ends quite abruptly and I felt deprived of a climactic battle between the rebels and the army of the fascist villain.Maybe I should have just been satisfied with The rock raising his signature eyebrow just before he laid the smack "},{"Title":"Grade A-","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I like action films a lot.  Explosions, gunfire, they excite me in movies.  But adventure films don't really do anything for me.  The lack of freshness is very blatant to me in most adventure films.  I saw The Mummy and The Mummy Returns and was not impressed by their mediocrity.  I had to be dragged to see The Scorpion King.  I was definately suprised.  The Rock proved himself to be more than just  big macho wrestler, but also a bona fide action star with potential.  While he is obviously not going to be up for any Oscars, and neither will his film, but I enjoyed his performance, as well as the performances of all the other actors.  This film provided enough action to tide me over for an hour and a half, and I enjoyed it.  i reccomend it to action fans and just anybody looking for a good time. "},{"Title":"a non-stop fight scene","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie is a NON-STOP Fight scene. I remember thinking to myself that I was going to go get some popcorn and a coke just as soon as the movie slowed down.........well, it never did. However I wasn't pleased with the crunchy guitar music in the back ground(in fact it gets annoying after awhile). there isn't much story here either(but i wasn't expecting much of one). but this movie advertised itself as a non-stop action adventure -- and by the standards set by similar movies (Conan,Beastmaster,ECT,ECT...) Its a good movie(but lets face it Ancient Barbarian/Fantasy movies are not/nor never have been Hollywood's strong suit) the special effects are just okay,the acting is 2 steps away from aweful, however the movie's female hot body co-star is nice to look at,and the action stunts make this film fun to watch. I give this film 5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Absolutely no brain power required!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow! What a movie! All action! No plot! Okay acting! This all spells The Scorpion King, the story of the Scorpion King that appeared in The Mummy Returns. It is before the pyramids, and there is Chinese gunpowder! Where does that come from? I have to say, this film historically is totally inaccurate, but who cares? We don't want a great thinking movie like A Beautiful Mind. As long as it has extreme action, we're all going to see it! The action in this film is really good. It made the movie worth seeing if you could turn off your brain. It was also campy too. It was so enjoyable. I saw it with my friends after two minutes, we turned it into an episode of Mystery Science Theatre 3000. Making fun of the movie made it also worth watching. Making up jokes about the main character who is an Acadian and pretending he was a Canadian, jokes about the unrealistic situations and action, saying the villan looked like Russel Crowe, and much much more! I give it a 6.5 out of 10 which is probably the best this film will ever be rated.     "},{"Title":"Worthy Prequel to the Mummy Movies!!!","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a worthy prequel to the 2 Mummy Movies.The Rock plays very convincing for a beginner, and i think he can be the next Arnold Schwarzenegger, if he gets the right parts (like the rumor of him playing Conn, the son of Conan)This movie is perfect to watch with your girlfriend.  (Shantell, I Love You!!!!!!)there is only one thing which bothers me a small bit.Why is this movie called the Scorpion King??As i understand from The Mummy Returns, the rock won't become the Scorpion King untill he makes a pact with Anubis.I sure hope there will be a sequel, in which you see his complete story. I wouldn't mind if the sequel would become a bit darker than this one.Otherwise, I can recommend this movie to everyone.  "},{"Title":"Cool, action-filled and simple","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is another action movie that follows the guidelines for a Hollywood action flick. Hot chicks, quick (and few) lines, special effects and simple humor. To me, it succeeds at being a good movie, even though it doesnt bring anything new to the table. It won't be a remembered movie but still it is enjoyable to watch, thanks to The Rock, who is cool as always, also thanks to the good action and the hot females in this one especially Kelly Hu. She is crazy hot. Watch this if you're 11 to 35 and a male. "}{"Title":"Disappointing plot, (under) average acting, though amusing (5/10)","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is to be seen as a sideway of the plot of The Mummy Returns. It's about an Akkadian guy (the Rock) who saved rebellions from the evil ruler Memnon. When you hear this story you could think it´s a very interesting plot, but as you see the movie, you learn that there's really nothing really more about this story then the facts above. I'm sorry, but that's just not enough to make a good movie! The biggest disappointment about the movie came when I found out how he gets to be called the Scorpion King he gets hit with scorpion venom, and he survives. He gets called a scorpion king just for surviving the venom (and have scorpion's blood flooding in his body for the rest of his life). Again it's just too simple man! The acting in this movie isn't very good either The Rock doesn't speak very much in the movie, and we can all see why he just can't act. The rest of the actor's performances is nothing more then average. So, we have a really disappointing story outline plus we have bad to average acting. But why though did I enjoy myself watching the movie? Yes, I was entertained and I did have enough fun watching the movie. Well, I think it's because it is a entertaining movie It has many good action, much humor and some good pictures. So, in sum, if you just see The Scorpion King as an entertaining movie, you could have a fun evening. But don't&#133;and really don't expect to see a movie with good acting, a good plot and unpredictability. As to be entertained is just not enough for a movie to get a good grade from me, I give this movie a 5 out of 10. It could as well be a 4, but as I told, I was amused, and that's worth something&#133;&#133;but not everything. "},{"Title":"Just A Fun and Simple Action/Adventure Movie","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie isn't going to revolutionize the film industry...nor does it try to.  It's simply a fun and simple movie, easy to get into but nothing that's going to make you think too much (or at all?), with good action scenes and a decent story.  It tries to do these things and succeeds.  It won't be remembered too much in years to come as anything other than The Rock's first major starring role, but that's ok.This probably could have been a standout, but unfortunately there are a couple of things that keep it in the mediocre range.  For one, the story and characters are just a little too bland or cliched.  I've heard it compared to Conan The Barbarian, and while I don't necessarily think it's the most accurate comparison, I do think that this movie doesn't do anything story-wise that hasn't been done before.  The fight scenes are the same way. In the post-Matrix and Jackie Chan world, for a fight scene to really stick out it has to be awe-inspiring, with creativity and acrobatic theatrics. This has neither, but instead just good ol' fashioned butt-kicking.  It makes the fight scenes a little forgettable, though.I can't fault The Rock for his performance.  Sure, he doesn't blow you away with his acting ability, but with the script he was given, he wasn't asked to, either.  He has potential far beyond what's displayed in this film, although his ability to draw people into the theaters should now be easily seen.  With just an unknown in the starring role, this is a $40 million movie tops...even with the Mummy franchise label on it.  If it hadn't faced tough competition from Spider-Man and Episode 2 late in its run, this probably would easily exceed 100 million in the box office.  It may get there anyway.  But back to the movie itself...Basically it's just an average, fun action movie.  It's entertaining enough to keep your attention and serves its main purpose, which we all pretty much realize is to introduce Hollywood's Next Big Thing (The Rock).  He's set to become the type of action star we haven't seen since Sly and Arnold faded away in the genre towards the mid-late 90's.  This is a noteworthy movie for that, and good enough to see at least once.  Don't expect to be blown away, but it's worthwhile to rent or catch on cable.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I originally wanted to see Blade II at my local theater, but they weren't showing it anymore. In its place was The Scorpion King. I reluctantly agreed to go at first, but now I'm glad I did. From the first minute to the last, it was nonstop entertainment.Unlike Arnold and Van Damme, the Rock doesn't pretend to be funny. It's all the weird people and things around him that make the scenes funny, witty, and entertaining. The fire ant scene was hilarious and reminded me of the antics in the later Evil Dead movies.The climax of the film with three different things going on at once is top-notch. I wish Spiderman had as climactic a scene as this.I was not a Rock fan before I saw this movie, but now I see how guys and girls would like this man. I could easily see him as the new Arnold, Van Damme, Segal, etc. Hell, we need a new action superhero! "},{"Title":"Original, I think. Not as unique as other S&S movies, but I loved it","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't expect anything from this movie, despite all the hype it had. Since I expected nothing, I hoped I would not be let down by anything. However before I saw the movie I saw the soundtrack available to buy, and as I looked to see who composed the score I recieved a shock. There WAS no composer on the soundtrack, only today's hit heavy metal and rap songs. I had seen the preview for the movie on The Mummy Returns, and was excited about it ever since. When I saw the soundtrack all my hopes were dashed. I kept thinking Please don't pull 'A Knight's Tale' on me. Well the movie finally came out and I went to see it. I kept praying that they wouldn't pull the crazy Knight's Tale on me, and I was not disappointed with that, rather pleased. The score was amazing, and I wonder, why did the soundtrack execs choose not to have any of it on CD?But enough about that, let's move on to other aspects.The acting was so-so, but the Rock clearly took the taco on good acting. I wouldn't nominate him for an Oscar or anything, but he was still good. Better than some of the reviews believe. The movie reminded me of Braveheart in its storyline for some reason. I'm not quite sure why, perhaps that it was supposed to have tragically ended with the hero dying. Thankfully it was not so tragic. I found Matthaius's sidekick absolutely hilarious. His voice reminded me of Hank Azaria in The Mummy, which he also used the same voice in Anastasia. The scorcoress really stole the show next to The Rock. I loved her acting. I was rather confused as to how they would present the Scorpion King's storyline from the Mummy Returns, and was disappointed a little that it had no relevance to it. Overall though, plot-wise, score-wise, acting-wise, set-wise, I loved it.As I said in a previous review, the first S&S movie I ever saw was Red Sonja, and I loved it. This one blew it away. "},{"Title":"are such movies still made?","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's been a while since I've seen a movie which was so utterly pants. It really is an all-cliche extravaganza. The all-muscles no-brains hero (come on!! who calls himself the Rock??) is first gravely hurt by the bad guys, vows revenge and in the end gets the girl and kills the baddies. It's amazing that such shallow movies are still made...   "},{"Title":"watchable","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Scorpion King is quite a watchable movie. The characters are shallow but generally likeable, and perform an acceptable level of acting. There is non-stop action without gore. It is a sort of prequel to Mummy-2 and is supposed to explain partly the origin of the Scorpion King (played by the rock) who is the villain in Mummy-2. The Rock gives a reasonable acting performance in this movie.***spoilers*** The story line is quite sketchy and in my opinion does little to explain what a scorpion has anything to do with the Rock's character(Mathayus) who ultimately becomes king of Gomorrah after killing the villainous Memnon. The violence is well presented without any gore, which makes it more acceptable to young viewers. There is an interesting mix of characters - British, American, Chinese, Black, Mediterranean, Arab ... all roaming  ancient Egypt before the time of the pyramids. But such unrealisms dont affect the flow of the movie, with main emphasis  on sorcessors and sword-flick. In my opinion this movie is somewhat better that Mummy-2 which relied too heavily on CGI effects and no character development. ********************rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"The Rock's Conan","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While watching this nonstop action film, starring world famous wrestler The Rock, one can't help but think of the parallels to Arnold Swarzenegger as Conan. The Rock is a capable, charismatic leading man for this genre. Like Arnold, though, he is at his weakest when speaking lines of dialogue of more than five words at a time. As for the movie, the plot is paper thin. It's little more than an excuse for nonstop fighting, an occasional joke, and beautiful women, aka Baywatch. Although surprisingly violent, it cuts away from what would be a plethora of gore and a flood of blood if the movie strived for any realism at all, which much like the World Wrestling Federation, it doesn't. Rock has the stuff to be the next action superstar, but he's going to have to do two things first. He needs to find a vehicle that will make his cartoony persona more dark, much the same way Arnold was able to add a dark edge in Terminator. Plus, how can you take anyone seriously that calls himself The Rock - he needs to find a leading actor type name and fast. Or he will be stuck between a rock and hard place finding movies beyond The Scorpion King 1 through 100. Overall, I enjoyed this movie, despite its lack of a plot or spectacular special effects, for what it was, which speaks volumes for the Rock's ability to carry a film. However, my 11 year old daughter was bored. "},{"Title":"Make it a TV series","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sometimes I wonder what kinda movies are made and get into theaters. Sometimes I figure out (often too late) it wasn`t worth watching and paying so much money for a ticket. This movie is one of those where I hated myself for buying a ticket. I compare it with those Xena or Hercules TV Series where at least you don`t have to pay for. All right the special effects were nice and OK but how about the acting ? Horrible, does wrestling automatically qualify you as an actor or even worse do you think it`ll make you a good one ? Even Dolph Lundgren, Jean Claude van Damme or Michael Dudikoff are better actors than The Rock and they often suffer through a plot that is much worse than this one. Story was OK but it ended how it probably had to end when the invincible enemy is defeated by your ordinary shot with a bow. Great and noble end. At least I had a lot to laugh about when I saw it. "},{"Title":"The Action is Good","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was non-stop action from start to finish.- I arrived at the movies a few minutes late, and I just did get in my seat just in time for the last set of previews was over, - I thought to myself that I'd go back to the consession stand and get a Coke to drink after the moive settles and slows down, ---well I never got to drink anything because this movie never slowed down. After the opening sequence when the Rock Rescues his brother from a being held hostage, I thought to myself, that there is no way this film is going to keep up at this pace-- but it did. This movie runs at Full speed until its over, and Kelly Hu is a HOTTIE!! however this movie suffers from a terrible retro-70's style rock n roll music score that just doesn't fit. The acting is horrible (I expected that before I seen it). The story is better than I expected it to be,Despite the fact that this movie's action scenes runs full throttle all the way through, to my surprise a decent story about love and revenge does develope. I give this film 5 out of 10 stars- It's not perfect but it's worth watching, I enjoyed it "},{"Title":"If only there were a team of people to stop movies like this from being green-lit","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I never had expectations for this film. I knew the plot wouldn't really matter, and in that case I was right, but it doesn't end there. This is one of those films created solely to make money, and still I can't understand how it would earn enough to make a profit, because aside from kids that don't know any better and that are willing to see their `Rock' on screen, why would anyone pay to sit through this? The jokes aren't funny and the actors know it, the action is second rate as are all the other elements that make for a good action/adventure film. Slap together some second hand sets, lame costume design and shallow characters and you have your self a boring time at the movies.The Rock has enough presence to carry a film this big; the thing is it's all an illusion, perhaps suiting the dessert setting. Watch as what you believe is plot and character development; vanish before your very eyes. The dialogue, like photocopies, just gets worse and worse with every line. How and why people go see this I cannot understand. Tell me what entertained you? Please!! E-mail me and tell me what exactly you got as a form of enjoyment from this film.Is there really a need to explain the story? I don't even think I can remember it properly, and in fact why should I if they don't even apply enough effort in attempting to create one. Anyhow, The Rock plays Mathayus, an Arkadian (like it matters), who has been trained to be a serious bad-ass, and now must go after Memnon (the villain, like that matters), a bad guy who's invading all sorts of territories. Along the way The Rock meets a handful of silly characters; most noticeably is former Academy Award Nominee Michael Clarke Duncan. It's a shame his size limits him to roles like this one, for though I'm sure his pay was fine, he'd prefer to be doing something else.As far as effects and action goes this film has plenty, but again it is second rate. You have seen it all before and then some, and to top it all off you have seen it done better. The love interest in this movie is played by Kelly Hu who has been on the cover of every magazine these past months, and unfortunately doesn't really impress me in this film even if she is barely clothed in the slim 94 minutes of this film. Actually the run time is a plus, but believe it or not, it actually felt longer and I checked my watch 4 times before it was over.I somehow feel I always pick on the story or script when a movie goes sour like this, and most of the times I'm right, because after all that is the basis for 90% of most films (just took that percentage for example so don't hold me to it, but I'm pretty sure it's ballpark). In this case it would be fair to say that it was an ensemble of reasons, no one was really doing there best from the beginning. The actors are all fairly new to the screen and just don't all have the experience to know better than the performance they are giving. The director, Chuck Russell, has delivered crap like Eraser (starring past action-hero Arnold) and Bless This Child. I loved `The Mask' (also directed by Russell), where you can see quality in that film, from the look and feel of the sets and make-up and effects, to a pretty funny and off-beat story. In `The Scorpion King' you just don't have those elements coming together.If only there were a team of people to stop movies like this from being green-lit (I hope I don't have to use that line for my `Minority Report' review). So what I suggest is watch something else. If it's within the genre, just rent `Indiana Jones' films, or better yet, spend your bucks on something different like `Y Tu Mama Tambien'. Unfortunately the damage has been done; Scorpion King is America's number one movie. We'll have to put up with a sequel.  "}{"Title":"Average","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Average Action yarn... not the movie of the year... not bad but not great either (yawn) "},{"Title":"Reminds me of Conan The Barbarian - That's a Good Thing!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Rock has a gorgeous body and can swing a sword like Schwarzneggar in his prime. Plot? Dialogue? Unbelievable coincidences? Who Cares? I went to see Scorpion King for fun, and left satisfied and pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed it. Kelly Hu is the female lead, I remember her from the TV show Martial Law with Sammo Hung. She is equally gorgeous, she really can act, and she knows her kung fu. The Rock has a great sense of humor and it shows. He rides a camel - which makes lots of sense in the desert - and makes it look easy.This film has everything needed for a satisfying sword-and-sorcery movie funny sidekick, wisecracking relation whose demise provides motivation, cute little kids, sexy heroine with revealing wardrobe, evil tyrant, crackpot inventor, brave rebels, smart and loyal animal that also provides a few laughs, sandstorms, snakes, scorpions, The Rock's rippling muscles, The Rock's glistening chest, The Rock's cool long hairdo, The Rock fighting with sword, bow and arrow, knives, and fists, and of course the Rock's still-glistening and well-muscled chest! I really don't care whether any of the dialogue makes sense as long as I can look at The Rock with his shirt off!I give the movie a 7, but The Rock's physique is a ten! Dear Hubby went along, and he gave the movie a 4 but Kelly Hu's physique a ten! Recommended for those times when you just HAVE to see half-naked people pummeling each other! "},{"Title":"Strong action, weak dialogue","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After finally getting to watch Scorpion King, I was not too disappointed with the movie. Nice flashy martial sequences. A swash buckling hero weaving a heavy weapon like a wand in one instant and double left footed in the next instant. Well you can't blame them if they were employing wrestling moves with oversized implements in their hands.Had to admit that although there was not many(actually closer to none) huge blue screen instances where you can watch impressive hordes sweep over the landscape like in the Mummy Returns, this movie was a rather nicely timed tight package. I barely noticed the 90 or more minutes flowing past.The Rock did indeed cut a fine figure but was kind of disappointed that he was not given more impressive dialogue. From the interview on David Letterman's The Rock was a rather well-spoken, intelligent and humorous individual. So I had different expectations. More rage and testosterone filled ranting from his arcadian character would have been better but instead there were nothing more than muted words of wisdom? Ah the eye candy, Kelly Hu who you say? I have to admit that I was most attentive from the point The Rock intruded during her bath. Was it was wishful thinking to actually to have more glimpses of her flesh (For shame !). Again her character like all of the others were sadly underplayed. Poor Michael Clarke Duncan and the unfunny horse thief.Overall this was an entertaining movie to watch and then not analyze too much about. Flaws were aplenty but was a great vehicle for the people's champion. Would I recommend this movie to others? Well if they are out for a nice evening no brainer movie filled with action...yes. If they are the finicky ones that prefer the airy fairy and hate everything involved with wrestling and its colourful characters...nah. "},{"Title":"The Scorpion King (2002) - ** (out of ****)","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  PLOT Mathayus (The Rock) AKA the Scorpion King is an assassin who is hired to stop the evil warrior king Memnon (Steven Brand).  The reason Memnon is unstoppable is because of the powers his sorceress named Cassandra (Kelly Hu) has.  Mathayus is supposed to kill Cassandra, but since she hates Memnon and wants to help Mathayus, she tags along with him.  So, along with some accomplices, they set out to kill Memnon.MY TAKE The Mummy and The Mummy Returns might not have been perfect, but they did offer fun Indiana Jones style action.  The Scorpion King is a boring mess.  It's painfully predictable, and doesn't generate an ounce of tension.  The Rock is fine for the role, but he should probably stick to the wrestling ring.  Kelly Hu isn't given much to do except to look pretty, and to become a possible love interest for Mathayus.  And the villain, played by Steven Brand, wasn't very menacing at all.  Obviously only made to make money, The Scorpion King is mediocre at best. "},{"Title":"The Ancient World is Back!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  With The Rock's character being called an Akkadian, and having a movie set during the time of Sodom and Gomorrah, makes you think that this movie is a missing page out of the Dead Sea Scrolls. I loved this movie even more then Star Wars or Conan the Barbarion. Heres a bit of Fun Facts, The Akkadian's lived in ancient Mesopatima and was one of the first cities to have existed.  The Akkadian's were a Semitic people that conquered the Sumerian's under the leadership of Akkadian Ruler  Sargon of Akkad.   "},{"Title":"An entertaining movie reminiscent of the films 'Adventures of Sinbad'","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The film has been well received in the box office despite the negative remarks made by film critics. The film plot is nothing unusual and can be compared to films like the Adventures of Sinbad and the Mummy with modern humor thrown in. There is plenty of action and sword fighting so the movie doesnt have many dull moments. Acting and set is fairly lavish although the make up of people does sometimes look a tad too good after battling in enemy territory. The aim of the film is to entertain which it does. A lighthearted swashbuckling movie. "},{"Title":"not what i thought","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  the movie sux compared to the Mummy 2 and it has nothing familior to what it said about the legend of the scorpion king in the mummy. I pesonaly thought the movie would be based on the legend of how he got bit by a  scorpion in the desert and how he defeated the enemy army with the help of non humans so if they have done this it would be much more interesting than this love story "},{"Title":"I am glad they did not name it Mummy III","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If I was expecting something of this movie , it was definately somehow related to the previous two movies about the mummy. Nothing of that, and I must say I am dissapointed in many ways. The story is thin, leaves it of course open to come up with Scorpion King II and the acting is mainly bad. WWF in ancient times, thanks, but I have had enough of WWF, UFC and other people who think fighting is more fun than kissing. If they really think about having another sequel, I will consider not watching it, or maybe just to give it a very low vote -) I should have known. If Hollywood thinks that something is good , they sue come up with number 2,3,4, etc. In most cases they should have made only 1 or maximum two. The same with the stories about the Mummy.  "},{"Title":"What I Thought Of This Movie","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Now honestly I thought this movie would be really lame. But it was quit a good film. Had a lot of action and good stunts. There was some sappy lines but that dosn't really matter in a action movie. Of course The Rock was a little stupid, but i guess he's better than Arnold now. This movie deserves a B "},{"Title":"Unbelievable, Breath Taking Action","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  At first, I thought this is a kind of movie that would go wrong since it is starred by The Rock. But after seeing it myself, I can't imagine other stars who would do it quite well. Van Damme, Schwarzeneger or Sly definitely not proper to play that Maythayus character because they're considered too plain for this character. The Rock has surprisingly brought up the character quite well and surely rocked the movie. The story itself is not too special. A story of revenge of tribes which were destroyed by the evil king, Memnon. The real strength of his power actually was a sorcerer who can foretell the result of Memnon's army attack. Maythayus were paid to kill the sorcerer and something happened on his way of killing this drop-dead beautiful sorcerer.Kelly Hu was playing the beautiful Sorcerer and yes, she was magnificently giving the beauty in this movie. You can't imagine what this movie would like if there were no touch of her beauty in this movie. Nothing special on acting of any of the stars playing in this movie, but that's OK. People may find this movie thrilling, from the very beginning until the end of it. A nonstop action from our Wrestling Champion. "}{"Title":"The Rock is not worthy to clean Conan's Jockstrap","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Pathetic, I weep for a country that make's this the number 1 movie for 2 weeks sraight!!  Much of the movie was swiped from Conan, such as the funny little thief.  Rock's acting was weak and his teeth are waaaaay too white for a barbarian type swordsman.  The movie did not make me care one bit for the main characters.  Thank God a friend bought my ticket or I might have strung myself from my shower curtain for wasting the money!!  "},{"Title":"Very good for what it is.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you want to spend 90 minutes with your brain shut off, watching near non-stop action, then this is your movie!This movie suceeds because it never pretends to be anything other than what it is A summer popcorn flick heavy on the action and comedy, lite on plot line and story(and costume for a certain sorceress!).This movie also suceeds in it's intentions to make The Rock into a bankable action hero. While he'll never win any Oscars for his acting ability, he is certainly more than adequate for this type of movie, and the sheer fact that you can understand what he is saying gives him far more range than the likes of Arnie or Van Damme will ever have. One other point watching Kelly Hu as the Sorceress left me with one very important question At what point would any less clothing on a person be considered naked? I know times have changed when I remember how racy I thought the costumes were in Flash Gordon (mind you, I was ten when I first saw it), but they were postiviely chaste in comparison to Kelly's ancient version of pasties and a g-string!To sum up If you want a movie which provokes deep thought, go rent Memento. If you want to see The Rock beat the living snot out of some nasty people, go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Good fun - escapist action movie","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Taken as an action movie with little or no basis in historical facts then this movie works excellently. Of course there are massive plot holes ( how would you see in a sand storm then ? ) but this is far far more enjoyable than The Mummy Returns and almost makes up for the dire CGI at the end of that.The Rock is excellent and I wished more had been made of his character in the previous movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Movie...Just don't expect anything amazing.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a good movie.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.  The action scenes kept you on your toes, and the comedy eased the movie.  Come one however, its the Rock, so if you are expecting lush dialog then you are going to be disappointed. The computer effects are very good, giving the impressions of a huge castle fortress set built to enormous armies of soldiers!  Despite the killing, it is great for younger audiences who might more appreciate the rebellious tenacity of the Rock in this movie; who (believes) knows nothing can stop him.A good movie and recommended.  However, if you are expecting anything special then watch it matinée, or you will be disappointed with your money loss. "},{"Title":"Puts The Mummy series to shame","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD... did I mention BAD!?The acting in this is really BAD! The story is really BAD! The action is non-stop & would only be found entertaining by an eleven year old.Sadly, most people will only see this because of THE ROCK... let me tell you... he is more like a pebble.3.5/10! "},{"Title":"Missing epic scenes","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I had to see this, just to see what is being done in the Sword & Sorcery genre these days, and because I loved the Mummy I & II. I think this movie had a lot of potential which it just did not live up to. (The movies I compare it to are Conan and the Mummys.) First of all, I didn't like the soundtrack, as it was too modern. I think a more ancient-style soundtrack, like in Conan, would have better served the mood. Not weak, just orchestral rather than electric guitars. Secondly, I think that in a series that previously had so much focus on magic, this movie was sadly lacking in magical events (spells, creatures, weapons, etc.). Although parts took place in a desert, there were not really any Egyptian-style cultural ties, which I missed. Finally, and most disappointingly, there was a lack of the kind of epic scale that could have made the story seem more important. Although Memnon is played as a kind of Alexander or Attila, we never see more than a few dozen soldiers. Did they not have the budget to even have one scene like the battle flashback in the Mummy II (or the one in Fellowship of the Ring)? The villain doesn't seem very threatening without an army, and the refugees don't garner much pity since we don't see much of the misery we assume has been inflicted on them. Much of what I was expecting to see in this film simply wasn't there. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie had a lot of action that was a very good distraction from the corny dialog and poor character development.  It reminded me of the kid show He-Man, with less makeup.  Those that went for the teaser of Cassandra getting out of the pool got what they paid for. "},{"Title":"Best Bond remake in years!","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was a blast. It's the first time I've seen Live and Let Die remade as a Bronze Age sword & sandal epic, but hey, it's all in good fun. Dwayne is fun to watch, Kelly is delicious, and the heavy is forgettable, but sufficiently evil for the genre. This film was everything the D&D movie should have been and failed to achieve. It is, of course, crying out for another sequel that will link up some plot threads with The Mummy Returns, but you know, that just means more Dwayne for us, and that's not a bad thing. That's a *good* thing. "},{"Title":"lots of action","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"      Over the years, a variety of professional wrestlers have tried to take their background in sports-entertainment and transfer it to a success in Hollywood.  Some have failed, Hulk Hogan for one, and some have succeeded, Roddy Piper springs to mind with a whole list of B-Movies to his name.  Dwayne The Rock Johnson shows in this starring movie that he does have the potential to cross over to the big screen.      The Scorpion King is a prequel loosely based on The Mummy Returns and details the background of the character that The Rock played for approximately five minutes in the previous movie.  In this one, Rock plays the remaining member of a band of assassins named Mathayus.  He has been hired by a council of tribes to kill the sorcerer that aids the evil King Memnon in his devastation of the free tribes.         In Mathayus' first attempt to kill the sorcerer he discovers that his target is a beautiful sorceress named Cassandra, played by Kelly Hu. Mathayus is betrayed in this attempt and finds himself captured.  He is quite surprised to find that Cassandra saves his life before Memnon can have him executed.  On the down side he is left buried side by side with a horse thief named Arpid, Grant Heslov portraying a similar character to the one he had in True Lies, to be eaten alive by fire ants.        After their escape the two journey to Memnon's kingdom of Gamora and once again Rock launches his attempt to kill Cassandra.  Unfortunately this time he befriends a young thief and finds himself having to rescue the boy before he is able to kill either Cassandra or Memnon.  Now with the palace guard after him, he inadvertently stumbles into Cassandra's dressing chamber and is able to escape from the kingdom. Memnon sends a troop of ten after the escapees only to have a token of their bodies returned by the assassin.  At that point he decides to start his attack against the final kingdom regardless if he has rescued his sorceress.  What he doesn't know is that Mathayus was infected with scorpion poison and only Cassandra's magic was able to save our hero. Meanwhile Mathayus, Arpid, and Cassandra stumble onto an encampment of rebels led by the gigantic Balthazar, Michael Clark Duncan.  After the two warriors have the obligatory battle they find a certain respect for each other and begin plotting their midnight raid against Memnon. Under cover of darkness Methayus leads his men into Memnon's castle and begins a final battle to the death with the evil King.          This movie probably will not appeal to everyone but it will have a wide cross-section of fans that do enjoy it.  Wrestling fans immediately leap to mind, as do fans of Sword & Sorcery tales in the style of Ah-nuld's Conan movies, and strangely the amount of women who have found The Rock to be one of People Magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People. That being said, is this a good movie   Does it entertain?  Yes.  Did it have the requisite amount of fights for an action movie?  Yes.  Was the choreography of the fights entertaining?  Yes . Were the sword fights impressive to watch?  Yes.  Did this have the requisite amount of humorous comments for an action/adventure movie?  Yes.  Did The Rock handle is lines well?  Yes.  I am going to have to say that it was a good movie, but it wasn't a great movie.      The plot was...light is probably the best word.  There was really nothing ground breaking to it and at best it was serviceable.  The character development really wasn't there but the movie really didn't care about those and that's why it succeeded.       Dwayne The Rock Johnson handled everything well enough.  His mastery of the dialogue and timing of the comic lines has long been evident in the way that he can rouse a crowd in wrestling and it carries over well here.  He has the imposing size to be believable in the action scenes. He does show the potential to be a good action star and possibly better if he is able to get more impressive scripts handed his way.         "},{"Title":"This was funny...but it wasn't supposed to be","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I cannot remember laughing so hard at a film in all of my life.  Of course, when I look back upon The Scorpion King, I realize it wasn't supposed to be a comedy.  This movie was really a joke; the only aspect of the film which saves it from being a complete failure is the special effects.  The Rock's performance is laughable...now we know why he was only in the Mummy Return's for two minutes.  Honestly, he makes Arnold Schwarzeneggar look like Al Pacino.  The story line is thin.  You could eat Alphabet soup and spit out better lines than, Live free, die well.  I almost left the theatre when the Rock performed his first WWF move, and I wish I did, since that was only a minute or so into the film.  If you want to see a film in this genre I would recommend Conan the Barbarian.  The story is better, the fight scenes are better, and Arnold is much bigger. "}{"Title":"not what i had expected","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i thought this was a great movie but something was missing i wonder what it was   o yea thats right, Imhotep  Rick and Evy maybe.i loved the mummy and the mummy returns i liked the scorpion king too but it didnt seem to connect with the first 2 films. it just wasnt the same without the characters from the first 2.i was disappointed about the characters but i liked the scorpion king anyway. "},{"Title":"A standard one yet extremely entertaining.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is a lot better than you expect featuring DwayneJohnson a.k.a The Rock as yet again The Scorpion King in a wildlyentertaining movie.  Each actor plays his role well exspeciallyMichael Clarke Duncan.  The Scorpion King is a movie you wouldgladly see in theatres. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie is predictable, cheesy, and boring.  It has some very funny parts, though.  My husband and I had to bite our tongues so we wouldn't laugh out loud in the theatre during the manlier parts of the film.  This gives testosterone a bad name.  The Rock is hot, though, so I was able to sit through it.   "},{"Title":"Respectable action vehicle for launching The Rock's film career","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This by-the-book sword and sorcereress adventure finds Dwayne The Rock Johnson leading a rag-tag band of rebels that includes the kid, the funny sidekick, and the enemy turned friend., against an evil war lord. While lacking the graphic tension of a Conan film or the campy tongue and cheek of Xena, this was a respectable action vehicle for launching  The Rock's film career. Better looking than Arnold and certainly more eloquent, Dwayne Johnson definitely has screen presence and is rather likeable. I expect to see more of him as an action hero and that's not a bad thing. "},{"Title":"Excellent Action - Need voice lessons though","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Rock was excellent in the actions shots.  He was a natural and I would put him up against the best such as Arnold, Bruce, Sylvester, etc.The acting itself of course will improve with time.  He needs to do something about changing the tone of his voice.  It was on a monotone scale throughout the movie.  Here was a Hoss of a man, with a very calming, quiet voice.  Not the sound you expect from The Scorpion King.Next time - show a little skin below the waist, just enough to tease the moviegoers.  "},{"Title":"no hype for this one","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am! Of course, what was I expecting...? But, the Rock was not that bad at all... OK, let me have a breath and I'll tell you. So, listen...The summer season has begun somewhat earlier - with BladeII, perhaps. Then there was that AMAZING Panic room. And now we're thrown one more bone - the Scorpion King. Well, those who've seen the Mummy and the sequel (in fact, two different movies - I liked the sequel best), were naturally expecting this here. Chuck Russel (the director, if I'm not mistaken) has already delivered some brainless action previously, see for Eraser at a local rent. This time it's even more overblown, has an even lamer script (ok, Russel's not to blame here).. and just like Eraser, some good moments. Yeah.. it's a good ride for 90 minutes. But, after a charming, romantic and clever Mummy Returns, this ride is not what I've expected from a journey to Egypt. Sorry.The Rock was good. Just like Arnie in Conans. The problem was not in him or in his acting skills (he has such). It was in those who made this movie. Ok, gotta go - I got two tickets for Spidey, looks like fun. Besides, Star Wars II are coming, so folks, save your money!! "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable.","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to see this movie without expecting a masterpiece. Eventually I enjoyed it. It is a nice movie, well directed with some special FX. Although I think that Conan is unforgettable! Nice choice to spend a relaxing evening with friends. "},{"Title":"Most of the movies I have reviewed fall in the cheesy category","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...And so does this one. This movie is just plain ridiculous. But It made me laugh, as a comedy, this movie works very well. One of the best things about this movie is its lead actor. The Rock had just the right level of charisma to lead this picture (It doesn't hurt that he realized just how silly a movie this is and obviously had fun with it).So as mind-numbing Eye candy goes, you could do a whole lot worse than watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Not Bad!!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised with this film.  I mean, I wasn't expecting much at all and it doesn't really deliver much but it is still entertaining. The Rock is about as loveable as Arnie was in his early days (maybe a bit better), and how he can launch people through the air with an arrow from a bow is still confusing me, but I think these type of films have to be bordering on the ridiculous.  No one should expect anything less and Kelly Hu's gold evening dress alone is worth seeing this film for in my opinion but heh!. The only gripe I had is the end, short that it was.   Still, for an above average action flick it holds its own, and above the shocking Mummy Returns in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Live free... die soon!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  okay, I'm a sucker for big budget hollywood action swashbuckling popcorn flicks. This does what it says on the tin - explosions, sword fights, babes, stupid-obligitory wise-cracking side kick, and more explosions. With totally OTT acting. And a crap load of stuff nicked from 'Live and Let Die' and 'Raiders of the Lost Ark'. The Rock is well cast, which becomes esp. apparent during one WWF-esque fight sequence, and Kelly Hu (who's got big things ahead of her IMO) gives the best performance of the film, and also the best eye-candy of the film. "}{"Title":"The Rock should stick to wrestling his WHOLE life","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, we got singers who can't act, actors who can't act, and wrestlers who can't act. The Rock is definitly one of the wrestlers who can't act. If he didn't try to act, maybe he I would've given it a better vote. Basically the whole cast stinks, with the exception of Michael Clarke Duncan who even didn't have a big role. At least the decent action scenes make up for the rest of this Battlefield Earth in Egyptian times.6/10 "},{"Title":"Silly, but enough fun for 90 minutes","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I think all those who are savagely panning the movie should remember that no one denies that the producers only made the movie to take advantage of the attention given the Rock and his Scorpion King character from The Mummy Returns and that it was not really intended to be a movie classic.In other words, it is not supposed to be The Ten Commandments or Gladiator or Spartacus or even Indiana Jones or any of those more serious epics or adventure films. Come on, what can we expect from this movie, the lead actor is a wrestler!So this was just meant to be a silly fantasy film, and intentionally amusing for all its hoary clichés.  Looking at the film from that perspective, I wasn't disappointed.  It was mildly amusing entertainment for 90 minutes.Obviously, we will be forgetting the movie altogether once Episode II or Spiderman is out.  But for the meantime, we can laugh ourselves silly over this one.  Those who would have wanted something like Ben-Hur should again remember its humbler origins as a Mummy spin-off and maybe they can even look at it as one of those it's so bad it's actually good type of movies.Maybe one way to have made it even more entertaining would have been to put an in-joke and have the Rock wipe out some of his enemies with wrestler-type moves.In short, I came to this movie not expecting anything more than silly fun, and that's what it was. "},{"Title":"The Rock's First Feature, But Who (or Hu) is the Real Star?","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you want to see a documentary about lifestyles and history of ancient mesopotamia, try the History Channel, or visit your local library; The Scorpion King loosely adopts this time frame (about 5 thousand years ago) but only as a convenient background for a reasonably entertaining action story featuring the carefully sculpted Rock (with those artfully etched eyebrows).  Sure, we've seen it all before, as the entire movie has been generated, or even cloned, from various standardized stock characters, situations, and even dialogue, but The Rock acquits himself well, and is a good natured, honorable and generally likable hero.  The effects are good, the action is fast-paced, but the real star of the show is Miss Hu, as the sorceress Cassandra (with a name borrowed from Greek mythology of an era 2000 years later)- she is absolutely gorgeous.The setting of pre-pyramid Egypt was apparently selected simply to fit into the chronology of the Mummy movies, in which the Rock's Scorpion King character was introduced (as an evil force, however, which is never quite reconciled in this film, in which he is the valiant hero).  As noted here, and in previous commentaries, the tribes, costumes and settings seem to have been purchased wholesale from the Hercules and Xena wardrobe and prop departments, and represent various anachronistic cultures, technologies and geographic locations. The 21st Century politically correct ethics are well in force, but they don't get too much in the way of the entertainment.On that subject, it is interesting to note, however, that though a wide variety of ethnic types is represented by the cast the Rock himself is part polynesian, his Akkadian brother has made a career of portraying American Indians, Miss Hu is oriental, and Balthazar (another anachronistic borrowed name, this one from the Three Wise Men of the Bible story), played by Mr. Duncan, is of African-American descent. There is a tribe of Amazons for the women's rights crowd. (The only real Middle Easterner is the buffoonish stock sidekick for our hero, who is played by that guy who was in True Lies who was the Arabic speaking computer expert).In this politically correct Hollywood story the true villains must, of course, be caucasion, and, of course in the best Hollywood tradition, the evil king must speak with an English accent,(I think the evil King's Captain of the Guards even had a German accent).  The opening scene shows a clearly Northern European tribe (complete with antler chandeliers, blond hair and bad teeth) proving themselves cruel and barbaric, and thus richly deserving of the thrashing they are soon to receive by an aggrieved Rock. (What a wandering band of pre-Vikings is doing so far from home, or 4,000 years before their time is just the first of many such mysteries the film leaves us to ponder).As I mentioned, these are only minor quibbles.  The most important point is that the movie is never reduced to sniggering sexual innuendo, (although there are several scenes featuring attractive young women in provocative attire), gore (which is ostensibly widespread, but remains off-camera) or off-putting posturing by the Rock.  Miss Hu is radiantly lovely, and very sexy without lewdness; her tryst with the incipient Scorpion King is discreet, even though her outfits seem to all come from the Hittite version of the Victoria's Secrets catalogue.  The Rock proves rather hard to damage, but does not have a sense of smug invincibility which detracts from some films of this type.I think the Rock will have a good chance to claim the mantle of action-hero left by the aging Arnold, Sylvester and Harrison.  Let's hope that his next project gives him something more original to work with.  I'll go see it. As for Miss Hu's next endeavor, I'll see it twice!  "},{"Title":"No sting in this tale","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Having found The Mummy quite entertaining and its sequel interesting, if overblown, I had my expectations lowered for the prequel, The Scorpion King. Quite unashamedly a vehicle for The Rock, this effort sported a variety of poorly plotted action cliches while providing a brainless succession of set pieces. Lasting entertainment was at a premium.Mr Rock is fine as an action hero - he has the muscles and the comical facial expressions, although his one-liners need polishing. His guns (okay, arrows) blazing entrance being followed by the opening line of, 'Boo' did not do much to raise my hopes.The usual suspects were all in place - stupid sidekick, beautiful adversary, psychotic adversary, adversaries that become allies, etc. etc.The main annoyance was that the way in which our hero becomes the Scorpion King was changed from The Mummy Returns, and not for the better. I would have thought this event should have been the beginning from which the story was grown, rather than forgotten.Disappointing. "},{"Title":"The Scorpion King of Rock","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The previews to this movie, looked terrible, absolutely terrible. And I must admit, I'm very envious of The Rock's success in the WWE and movies, for he and I are the same age. So I came into this movie expecting the worst, and to my surprise,it was good. Mathayus (Dwayne The Rock Johnson) an Akkadian and the last of his people, was hired to kill a sorceress (the *strikingly gorgeous* Kelly Hu) who works for a ruthless dictator. But she is not bad, as they claimed, so he protects her, and in turn is about to liberate the nation from the bad guys hands.The story is stupid simple, and he action scenes are cool to look at, such as thwe hero using a sandstorm as cover to fight the enemy. There are a LOT of well filmed and blocked action scenes, even some Twistedlight moments, when the Arcadian is about to be eaten by fire ants, he chews on a them and spits them out!This kind of role seems tailor made for The Rock, who flows through the action scenes as if he's done them forever (wrestling shouldn't count, this is the movies). He's a menacing, yet low-key, likable character. I've always liked Kelly Hu from her Martial Law days, but her martial arts skills aren't used much here. She is a decent actress for this part, but I almost didn't care, cuz of the skimpy outfits she wore. It remains to be seen how The Scorpion King will be remembered. Put it this way, everyone remembers Conan the Barbarian. But by the time the sequel to this one is made, let's not forget Conan the Destroyer. "},{"Title":"excellent movie for anyone over 18 yrs of age","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this with my wife and we both loved it.  The scenes where they show some skin don't really add to the story and easily could have been left out. I don't think this is a movie for anyone under the age of 18.The one thing that did bother me about this movie is that it is rated PG-13 and a boy under the age of 13, an actor in the film, has a full-naked women show up in front of him out of a well of water that he is wishing at. Thank Hollywood for that stunt!  "},{"Title":"It's pulp.  What, you thought I'm here for the woman - and your head! suggested something else?","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  You've read the reviews it's dumb, it's cheesy, it's inaccurate historically, it's dumb...one must wonder if these opinions come from people who didn't see the trailers.What is The Scorpion King but a fierce, goofy action picture?  Yes, it's full of cliches.  Yes, it's badly paced.  No, it's not very good.  But when you saw Dwayne The Rock Johnson say I'm here for the woman - and your head! in the trailers, did it suggest Kurosawa or Altman to you?This is pulp adventure and Saturday-Afternoon (Sunday Evening, in my case) daring-do in its rawest form, devoid of pretense.  Mathayus, who will later become The Scorpion King, fights a lot of people, whacks the bad guy and gets the sexy sorceress -- in the process, his Vow Of Revenge turns into Doing The Right Thing, and then there's cheering and stuff.  The film intends to get this all done with a bit of flair, some nudge-nudge humor and plenty of beef- and cheesecake; it achieves that and no more.  Expect but that of it and it will not disappoint.Should we lower our standards forever, that film be able to meet them? Certainly not; however, we must be keenly aware of which films intend to move us, to thrill us, to speak to us deeply...and which desire to show us a guy with big pecs beating the crap out of mooks in turbans.  Celebrate the cheesy action flick - it means well. "},{"Title":"Was this movie blurred?","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I travelled to another town some 100 miles away in order to see this movie on the 'big' screen with multi-sound channels.I appreciated the sound but I found the movie to be blurred.  Even the credits (letters) were blurred.  Needless to say I was very disappointed after paying $23.00Cdn for two, plus another $60.00 for travel and supper.Back at home I heard the comment that this same movie at the smaller, regular movie house, was also blurred.Did anyone else find this to be the case in their town/city?As for the movie I found it to be very violent, but no blood.  No blood anywhere, not even on the swords.  That was a bit weird.  The action shots were also very close, which made it hard to fully appreciate what was transpiring. "},{"Title":"a guilty pleasure in the truest sense","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Have you ever come out of a movie wishing you had your money back, or could at least have only paid for the scenes that paid off in a major way?  that is my opinion of the scorpion king.  for every moment where you groan or look at your watch, there is a scene that will have your jaw on the floor and wanting more more more.  for instance, the first fight scene in the movie was mediocre, and that is saying it lightly.  But the close-up on the rock's face and watching him utter boo in a low whisper was film brilliance and even though it had its share of groans, it was a great way to start a fun movie.  another example of some good stuff is a battle in a sandstorm, which is edited to death but makes up for it with some impressive action.  The rock isn't the most gifted actor on the planet, but he holds his own and has personality and charisma to spare.  The man is better than even present day Arnold, so there.  not conan, not The mummy, but a decent stand alone (notice the reference to the soundtrack song?) film that has franchise potential.  i gave it a 7 "},{"Title":"the most fun time I have had at a movie","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Man this is probably the worst movie I have seen in theaters. the rock says like 30 words during the whole thing. My friends and I sat in front and yelled about how lame the movie was through the whole thing and no one cared at all actually they were laughing there a***s off. go to this movie if you want to have a good laugh at the lame lines and horrible acting performed by the rock. the rock has one facial expression that he uses through the whole thing. But I didnt care because I had so much fun. if this becomes popular it will be a cult movie like rocky horror picture show wich was horrible but was fun to watch. "}{"Title":"The Rock, rocks!!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"     I was very impressed with this movie. It was so tongue-in-cheek. I am so glad to see that The Rock decided not to take himself to seriously in this film. He had a great sense of humor about the way that he played this character. I am glad that it was decided that the Scorpion King would not be some invincible god-like person. He had some vulnerability to him.   The action scenes were spectacular. More impressive was the fact that Dwayne The Rock Johnson performed all of his own stunts. I look forward to seeing him in more movies.     Scorpion King Part II? "},{"Title":"A rollicking adventure that does exactly-what-it-says-on-the-tin","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Well, after all the rumours of its potential demise, the Scorpion King finally arrives on the big screen. The big screen is where it's preferable to see it too since that's where it works best and the look of the film is what's going to make or break it given that it's not going to win any Oscars for intricate or original plotting!But intricate plotting is not what this film is about and I suspect most people who go off to see it won't be looking for it either, so long as the movie hangs together and looks good ... and here I think it succeeds despite a few jarringly over-familiar elementsThe mercenary warrior hero (Conan et al)The evil king using a sorcerer to take aid his armies in taking over the world (Sword and the Sorcerer et al)The streetwise kid sidekick (Indian Jones - Temple of Doom et al)The cowardly wisecracking sidekick (Benny from the Mummy films)The flaky, kindly scientist forced to work for the bad guyThe amazon warriors - all good looking and able to find lip glossThe beautiful (and she is very beautiful!) seer, forced into the service of the bad guy, who will lose her powers if she loses her virginity (Solitaire in James Bond Live and Let Die ... even down to being 'tested' after she is suspected of sleeping with the hero!)... all these 'classic' characters (and more) are here. Though I accept that films in this genre, almost by definition, are *bound* to use elements from films that have gone before, in this case by having so many of them they're sometimes mixed a little too thin, when their roles overlap, to actually gel as well as they could.Overall though, the action moves along at a cracking pace, the set pieces look good and are exciting (even if a couple, again, have familiar aspects... haven't we seen the escape behind the large rolling gong before once or twice - Indian Jones Temple of Doom and Jackie Chan - Armour of God for example) and the plot is enough to point the movie in the right direction without there being enough of it to pick too many holes in. Acting wise nobody really stands out but nobody is embarrassing either. The Rock actually does a better job than Arnie did in Conan and is not upstaged by any of the rest of the cast ... on the other hand that sort of lets you know the standard.It's the type of movie it looks like on the poster; if you liked Conan and similar sword slinging fantasy flicks then you'll probably like this one. If you're after intellectual stimulus or great acting go and see something else.6/10  "},{"Title":"An insult to any movie-goer's intelligence","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Filled with cliche after cliche, this movie is predictable, boring and ridiculous. Stephen Sommers, director of The Mummy and The Mummy Returns, wisely chose not to direct this - even though he holds the chief blame for coming up with the story and writing the manuscript for it.This movie is an obvious copycat of The Mummy and its follow-up The Mummy Returns, although those movies had a superior cast, better dialogue, funnier jokes etc. The Rock obviously can't act, so the director tries to save him by making him say stupid jokes and adding a funny side-kick (think Jar Jar Binks-funny, you'll want him decapitated half-way through the movie).The special effects are so-so, and the scenes which seemed so breathtaking in the Mummy movies are pale in comparison - maybe because we've seen it all before.I think this movie is going to be a blockbuster success and The Rock will probably become the next Arnold Schwarzenegger... I for one will NOT be following his carrier with exitement from now on. "},{"Title":"Oy.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King marks the official start of the 2002 summer movie season, and woe be the moviegoer who wants logic and brains in his movie.  If The Rock's starring debut is any indication, this summer will be the worst on record.  Scratch that; it's not an indication, it's a warning.  Summer movies are here; no brains allowed.Audiences should have known something was up when Universal claimed they were so excited by The Rock's `performance' in The Mummy Returns that they simply had to give him his own starring vehicle.  In his five minutes of actual screen time (the rest of his performance was completed by a CGI scorpion), he did little more than grimace, grunt, and growl.This film charts the character's ascendancy, from mercenary named Mathayus to a powerful sovereign capable of a transformation into a giant CGI creature.  A terrible despot named Memnon (Steven Brand) rules the ancient world with an iron, arrow-catching fist, with the aid of a clairvoyant, semi-nude sorcerer (Kelly Hu).  Over the course of ninety-odd minutes and endless swordfights, Mathayus tries time and time again to kill Memnon while bearing his teeth and arching his eyebrow.Clearly a film in the Conan vein, The Scorpion King gives The Rock plenty of opportunity to twirl things in the air and glower with hammy abandon.  Of course, the dialogue is kept to a minimum.  `I've come for the woman &#150; and your head' is about the most complex sentence Mathayus utters; although you might be inclined to believe that the character's silence is less a function of his stupidity than the film's inability to go more than four minutes without increasing the body count.I never thought I could miss the Mummy movies so much. While Steven Sommers' movies were dumb, he knew how to make great action sequences.  The Scorpion King, all clanging swords with squishy sound effects, is a film dying for a great action scene.  Time and time again, indistinct royal guards charge The Rock, who dispatches them with quick, bloodless swipes from his sword.  Helpfully, The Rock's sword appears to be enchanted; no matter how many times it gets lost or broken, it always reappears at his waist at the start of the next scene.In a crazier movie, The Rock's overbearing acting style, wide eyed and frowning like he smells something bad, could work.  But director Chuck Russell's work is uninspired; he's missing the sense of uninhibited abandon he brought to The Mask.  A novel of The Scorpion King would probably be just as bad as the movie; there are no standout images, no great fights, no good performances, and nothing worth remembering.  It is the epitome of bad Hollywood filmmaking.  Here's hoping this bad omen is only a false alarm.  "},{"Title":"Well, what can I say!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw this film recently and let me tell you........what a disappointment! There is nothing positive to talk about this movie, the lack of acting, special effects and the comic relief was unbearable. At several times during the movie, I dosed off. I never dose off in a movie theater. The only thing that this movie had to offer was good action/fighting sequences and I'm glad that the Rock and Michael Clarke Duncan didn't break out in a WWF wrestling match. I expected much more from this movie but then again, I shouldn't be surprised either. I don't think this movie is in the same mold of the Mummy and Mummy Returns, this just doesn't quite cut the mustard. My rating 1 1/2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"You gotta love The Rock.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Regardless of your feelings about the WWF (World Wrestling Federation), you gotta love `The Rock' (a.k.a. Dwayne Johnson).  His performance as Mathayus (the Scorpion King) combined his moves on the mat with his charm outside the ring.  And together, they built a character that was equally as likeable. When compared to the likes of Arnold, Jean-Claude, and Sly, The Rock is every bit the performer and twice as cool.`The Scorpion King' was filled with action and excitement as it pushed the boundaries of its PG-13 rating with an over abundance of violence and the illusion of nudity.This could be the start of something big for Dwayne (ha ha), and I predict that The Rock will be the muscle-bound action star for a new generation. "},{"Title":"Exactly what you would expect and less","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is not too much I can say about this movie.  If you have seen any of the Conan movies then you have seen a better movie.  There is really not much action, great special effects, or interesting characters in this movie at all.I will say that it is probably better than the Mummy Returns but a root canal is probably better than the Mummy Returns.  There is just nothing that stands out.  The fight scenes are very typical.  There are no eye popping special effects which could be good but not in this movie.My best advice is to wait until this comes out to video and makes it to the dollar rental rack and it is a rainy day.  It might help you pass 90 minutes but don't expect much.There is one kind of neat scene that involves giant fire ants so I am going to bump my ranking by a point in a half.This one gets a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"a fun way to escape from reality","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My husband and I went to see The Scorpion King last night and thoroughly enjoyed it. I am a sucker for myths, swords, and magic so was able to easily suspend my disbelief. No, it isn't the best film I've ever seen; however, it provided exactly what I was looking for in a movie.... a fun evening in a faraway place. Dwayne Johnson performed quite well for a novice and contributed eye candy to the film. His sidekick, Arpid the horsethief (Grant Heslov) was hilarious (okay, he didn't beat out Benny from The Mummy....but close!). And I was fascinated to learn that Johnson did all his own stunts.On the whole, I was not bored... which may not sound like much; but, I tend to get bored fairly easily. The action, the dialog, the setting, were enough to keep my attention. I didn't even take out my PDA and play a game, which I've been known to do during movies that couldn't hold my attention!  "},{"Title":"One little word - RENTAL!  And even then, I'd use a coupon!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  OK.  I heard lots of bad things, lots of VERY bad things about this movie before I saw it.  But, I tend to be one who doesn't form an opinion from other's views.  I wait until I see or do something myself.Onto the movie.  It's OK.  That's about it.  It's only OK.  The special effects and the fight choreography are pretty good.  The action scenes are pretty good.  The story is even pretty good.  However, that's where the 'pretty good' stops and the 'sub-par' begins.This is a great movie to see if you are a WWF fan.  If you like seeing The Rock pose and flex, this movie is for you.  Many of the fight scenes seem as staged as the WWF fights.  Well, of course!  Vince MacMahon is one of the producers of this flick.  Get a WWF wrestler in the lead and the WWF money behind it, and you're sure to get a big blockbuster, with very good box office returns.  But, if you are expecting a good 'prequel' or sibling story to the very good 'The Mummy' and 'The Mummy II', you will probably be disappointed.  The basic story line is to show you more history behind 'The Scorpion King' character from 'The Mummy II' movie.  It tells you who he was, where he came from and how he bacame a 'king'.  I won't spoil it for you, but it is all about revenge.  There are some decent acting performances in this movie, with the Sorceress being one of the top characters.  The 'villain' of the flick just isn't too believable as a bad guy.  He's more of a weasel.  Kind of like the bully in grade school who used to beat you up for money, just because he had his growth spurt before anybody else and had an advantage of size.  This 'villain' has an advantage in his gifted sorceress.  Many of the supporting characters are much better in their roles.  Of course, The Rock just flexes and poses his way through the movie.  But, it's not as cheesey or bad as you would expect.Again, if you are a BIG fan of the Rock and the WWF and wrestling, go see it.  But, if not, wait until it hits tape and DVD and rent it.... with a coupon, if possible. "},{"Title":"SEE IT - But With An Open Mind","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went along to see this movie -- not because I was a fan of either Mummy (in fact, I didn't like them), but because my son is a Rock fan and loved the Mummy(s). I had no good expectation going in. After the opening sequence, those expectations quickly went south. However, committed to watching it with my son, a couple of things happened. The movie became one of those fun things to see and the Rock actually surprised me. He came across as an action hero/actor instead of someone whose taken one too many metal folding chairs over the head during his impressive WWF career. There are ironies a-plenty. For instance, in the city of Gommorah, there are street peddlers selling the finest of steel swords. However, in the beginning narative, we are told the story takes place in the times before the ancient pyramids. Sorry, steel wasn't around then. One of the funniest moments, I thought, was when the Rock sneaks into the palace and quickly silences his child-guide. This is followed by the overly-loud drawing of his sword. Schwing!! If you're not going for a history lesson but, instead, for some fun and a few thrills, this is a movie worth seeing.  "}{"Title":"A VERY good action movie","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Here in Europe we don't know the American wrestling heroes, but I think we shall see more of Dwayne Johnson. The action stars are all old (even W.Snipes), so somebody new is very welcome. He was already cool in The mummy returns, but here he was even even better. The special effects were also better. The only thing I regret is that we didn't see more of R.Moeller. If u like good action and fantasy, go see it. "},{"Title":"Ummm...wait for the video, or at least the cheap theatres (contains significant spoilers)","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While this movie is a fun hour or so, and what breathing female wouldn't mind ~90 min of a marvelous mountain of sweaty, sword wielding Rock-ness... seriously- this movie is lame.Remember the two old Muppet guys in the balcony?  Kibbitzing endlessly?? Yeah, that was myself and my friends.  Cheesy predictable lines...Cheesy predictable scenes...  The Sorceress who doesn't have a name?  THE CAMEL??? The evil prince's capital...at Gomorrah?!  The crazy scientist who happens to be able to make...gunpowder.  And the worst cheese fest of all...the end of the battle with Mathayas, his arm around semi-clad Sorceress- her duct-taped silicone bosom heaving fetchingly, standing on the smoking battlements with the billowing clouds and the silver dollar moon over his shoulder and the suddenly cowed evil prince's army vowing their eternal loyalty to the new king.  GAG.In summary- Fun, good CGI, big let down to the two Excellent Mummy movies. "},{"Title":"Decent action movie","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a decent action movie for the Rock's first outing in a starring role.  Go see it for what it is an action movie and don't expect anything more than that or else you'll be dissappointed.  This movie is best viewed the first time and no more than that.  One viewing is enough because it's not one of those movies that you would want to see more than once.  Decent for the first viewing but a dutifully decaying dud after that. "},{"Title":"Beefy Bravado and Little More.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Rock, the owner of the most emotive eyebrows in Hollywood, returns in the sword and sorcery epic, The Scorpion King. In this spin-off of the 'Mummy' series of films, The Rock reprises his role as Mathayus (first seen in The Mummy Returns), an assassin for hire, who has a way with swords, crossbows and damsels in distress. Blessed with a beefy bravado, and dramatic range slighter greater than that of Steven Seagel, The Rock has some success in surviving a script so cliched, that a lesser screen hero may well have put down his sabre and surrendered.(Plot spoilers ahoy!)Set some 2000 years before the earlier films, evil warlord Memnon (Steven Brand, in a suitably hissable, performance) and his horde of barbarians, are only one battle away from their ultimate, unholy goal of domination of the desert peoples of the world. Memnon's greatest ally and strategist is the seductive sorceress Cassandra (played with slinky conviction by former Miss Teen USA, Kelly Hu). Gifted with both exotic beauty and psychic visions, Cassandra victoriously guides her master through one treacherous battle after the other. Fearing annihilation, the remaining tribes of desert people, enlist the services of Mathayus and his motley band of fellow assassins. Their task is to kidnap and ultimately destroy Cassandra. Therefore, reducing Memnon's chances of success in future battles. Predictably, matters are complicated when the inevitable romance ensues between Mathayus and Cassandra. With his greatest asset and bride-to-be being held hostage, Memnon is suitably enraged. Thus, paving the way for the ultimate, fiery confrontation with Mathayus.Overall, The Scorpion King is a fairly cynical piece of Hollywood fluff. A product geared largely towards a non-demanding, adolescent male audience. Director Chuck Russell's (A Nightmare on Elm St. 3, The Blob) pedestrian direction, fails to elevate the material to any degree. Fortunately, the formidable physical presence and charisma of The Rock goes some way to redeeming this shamelessly airheaded adventure. This bodes well for his evolution from professional wrestler to film actor.With Arnold Schwarzenneger's career in rapid decline and Sylvester Stallone soon to be put out to pasture, Hollywood is in desperate need of a new action star. The Rock may well be there man. "},{"Title":"WWF Meets the Ten Commandments","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Rock is the most appealing action hero to hit Hollywood since Arnold struck gold in Conan the Barbarian.I say this having seen neither The Mummy, not The Mummy Returns.  In addition I loath the WWF and all things related. Prior to this month I was vaguely aware of The Rock as just another ersatz jock who ran off at the mouth whenever he was near a microphone.Please forgive me!  I was so wrong!The Rock fires up the theatre with pure star quality in Scorpion King. In every shot, he owns the screen.  Not only that, he's a far better actor than other action stars like Jackie Chan or Steven Seagal.Scorpion King has it all - action, romance, war, betrayal, loyalty and comedy.  Grant Heslov is hilarious as The Rock's sidekick Arpid, and the powerful Michael Clark Duncan (Planet of the Apes, The Green Mile) is outstanding as usual as Balthazar, The Rock's reluctant ally. Kelly Hu is great as the Sorceress.I went to see the film mostly as a favor to a friend.  I can't remember having such a great time in a movie in years.  If you like an action packed, good-versus-evil, thrill ride flicks, with lots of laughs, don't miss The Scorpion King.  I can't wait to see it again.Here's to a long career Rock; you'll be in the 20-million dollar club long before the referee can count to three.   "},{"Title":"Conan Strikes Again","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought it would be fairly good, given its connections to the creators and directors of the two Mummy movies.  I thought wrong.  Duane might have a future in movies, after all he is good-looking.  This movie really needed a little more work, more story.  I don't mind action movies, but a little bit of a plot would help. "},{"Title":"Lightweight but derivative","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is a cheerfully dumb action film that is unfortunately let down by the many film cliches it contains.Dwayne The Rock Johnson stars as Mathayus, last of the warrior Akkadians, who must kill the cruel King Memnon (Steven Brand) in order to protect the Free Kingdoms.  However, there's a catch the sorceress Cassandra (a hubba-hubba Kelly Hu) predicts the future for Memnon, who is nearly unbeatable as a result.  So, in order to kill Memnon, Mathayus must first kill Cassandra.  But Cassandra has her own secrets...Normally, this would all be cheesy, campy fun, and that's what director Chuck Russell wisely aims for.  The problem is that the plot is so derivative that anyone who's seen more than one episode of Hercules or Xena can tell what's coming.  In fact, The Scorpion King plays like a cross between an extended episode of Hercules and the cult classic The Beastmaster. Writers Stephen Sommers, Will Osborne and David Hayter are obviously creatively bankrupt; they cannibalize not only the sword'n'sorcery genre, but Sommers' own Mummy films.  Look, there are touchstones that any film in this genre will use,  but The Scorpion King is shameless in its appropriation of them.  Hunky, well-pec'd hero? Check.  Teenage boys' fever dream for the damsel in distress? Check.  Mystical mumbo-jumbo that does nothing to advance the plot?  Check.  Comic relief with a funny accent?  Got that too.  In fact, plot elements are ripped off from sources as diverse as Live And Let Die and National Lampoon's Animal House.And that's the root of the problem.  Johnson has an undeniable charm, and Hu is jaw-droppingly attractive, but the movie is just so derivative that I couldn't enjoy it.  Cliche after cliche piles up until the movie collapses under their weight.  Movies, and especially fantasy movies, are all about the suspension of disbelief, but I found myself rolling my eyes in exasperation.And so, to sum up this too-long review Despite its brisk pace and appealing hero, The Scorpion King ultimately proved to be just a letdown.  Rent The Beastmaster and see it done right.  My grade  C. "},{"Title":"A Mediocre Film in all","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My first thought about this movie before seeing it was, Oh Great another wannabe actor from the wrestling world. For that reason alone I had no intention of seeing this film. But in the end, I decided that I had to go see it for the fact that one of my role models, Stephen Sommers wrote it.I liked most of the writing and the action in the movie was pretty good. One of my favorite scenes is during the sandstorm. But Dwayne Johnson is not an actor he is only a actor in the action sense of acting. I also did not like how they tried to  make the music sound somewhat like the music from The Mummy movies. Lastly, I was dissapointed that there was nothing on the fall of the scorpion king or on how he was known as the scorpian king except for one small and brief part. All I can say is that the movie was an okay film, but anyone should go see a film themselves and form an opinion of their own on it before they trust anyone elses opinion. "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you smell-la-la-la-la-la....what the Rock....is acting!  For this movie, the only thing that may have stunk may have been the dialogue -- too modern, for my tastes.Overall, this was an excellent action/fantasy flick.  The special effects were well done, the babes were hot and the battle scenes were cool.But like I mentioned above, the dialogue was too modern, using our phrases, slang, etc.  Even Rock's Boo near the beginning of the movie is modern.  We should hear talk of wenching, etc. while sitting in front of a fire eating mutton.Also, for a ruffian/assassin/barbarian, Rock was too clean.  5,000 years ago, people would have been rough and gruff.  But of course, his appearance will attract viewers; how many people will attend a movie starring an unclean, smelly actor?I guess if I'm making a point of the lack of realism in this movie (but then again, how real could this movie be, given that it takes place in a time that very few people know anything about), I guess I might as well mention the weaponry.  Although I know nothing of that era, it just seems odd to me that the swords during that time would be so...perfect.Okay, okay, okay.  It seems as though I'm being nitpicky about the details of this movie, but I'm not.  I have the habit of picking at movies I really like.  And this movie had it all (except not enough magic), including the starring role of the WWF Superstar, the Rock.For the Rock's triumphant achievement, I've given this movie 8 out of 10.  It lost a point or two because it did not quite meet my definition of a fantasy/magic-related movie.Oh yes, I consider this movie to be a prequel to the prequel of the Mummy Returns.  In other words, this movie describes the origin of the Scorpion King, but does not portray the events seen in the Mummy Returns.  Does that mean that we may yet see a sequel?  I sure hope so. "},{"Title":"A truly fun movie.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie, because the action was fun and entertaining.  The Rock's action debut was a hugh success.  The 'Smack-Down' scenes were true to form.  I relived my youth of going to see Gorgeous George with my Dad some 45 years ago.  My grandsons were excite about the movie and we talked long distance for an hour about the action. I was sorry we could not have seen it together. "}{"Title":"Better then I expected, but lacked The Mummy's touch","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King turned out to be much better then I had suspected. Unlike what I had heard, The Rock did not resort to his wrestling tendencies in the movie, as most of the fighting was sword play of a sort. His acting was good, not great, but good. The plot was enjoyable, and I felt myself actually feeling sorry for the main character as he went through various unpleasent situations. I would recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys action movies. There is lot's of fighting, no gore, and a plot that follows fairly well. Seeing The Mummy or The Mummy Returns first isn't needed, since there is almost no tie in whatsoever. If you have a chance to see this movie, I say go for it! "},{"Title":"More near-miss, highly-derivative fun!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  	The `Scorpion King' wants to be a throwback to the kind of fun-trashy B-flick that Hollywood used to crank out by the dozens up through the 70's-with a much higher budget that is.  Unfortunately, it doesn't quite hit the rather low mark it sets for itself-but it comes close enough to be fun anyway. 	Two main faults keep `Scorpion' from the target#1  The film's action sequences (which you think would be the film's high points) suffer from the same bad, difficult-to-follow editing as last years near miss, `Lara Croft Tomb Raider.'  I know some cheating has to be done when your lead actors are not trained stuntmen (there are very few Jackie Chans out there). BUT today's action director's (or is it the editors?) apparently have a bias against using any kind of master shot during action scenes.  Consequently, every fight or action sequence is reduced to an unintelligible blur of close-ups-all body parts, faces, and swords in indiscernible motion.  You can't even tell what is happening.  I mean, damn, fellas, even Errol Flynn used to learn enough to do some of his own sword fighting in long shots.#2  This is one of the most derivative movies I've seen in a loooong time-it is almost comically so.  Most obviously, and forgivably, the film apes Arnold's `Conan' movies. But the biggest, most wholesale ripoff is not from a Sword and Sorcery flick, but from James Bond. The main plot device--of the bad guy depending upon a fortune telling witch who will lose her powers once she has sex-is directly lifted from `Live and Let Die.' And this is no small ripoff, either.Also  The pickpocket scene from `Oliver!' is lifted. The `Thank you, God' bit is swiped from `Animal House' (as `Gods be praised.') The `killing &#145;em one by one' montage gimmick is stolen from Stallone's `Rambo' movies. The fight between Robin Hood and Littlejohn is replayed here as well.And, in the most surprisingly obscure ripoff, the heroes sneak into the bad guy's stronghold by dressing up like female whores, just like in the 1970s Spaghetti Western, `Companeros' (although, to be fair, `Companeros' probably stole the bit from someone else first). Other than that, `The Scorpion King' is fine trash for the teen set.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the best comedy in the new millennium!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went into the Scorpion King hoping to be mildly entertained.  Little did I know that I would be experiencing one of the finest pieces of comedic cinema ever to grace the screen.  Yes, the Scorpion King is not just a movie, but an EXPERIENCE.  Dwayne 'the Rock' Johnson gives a physical comedic performance that could only be matched by Charlie Chaplin.  Mr. Johnson can make constipated faces like no one else.  Every vein bulges out of his tree trunk thick neck.  His teeth grind together so hard sparks almost fly.  His eyes squint in agony.  The best examples of this in the movie is when he gets shot in the calf by an arrow tainted with scorpion's poison and when he gets shot in the back with an arrow while saving Kelly Hu.  We can get the poison out, but the blood of the scorpion will always flow in his veins.The Scorpion King also has fabulous editing.  Every slow motion shot has perfect timing.  Whoever cut this movie deserves some sort of accolade. The movie also has great writing. -You should be glad we share the same mother. -Are you ready to stand alone and face the fury of his armies?  Yes. And every line that was molded for the scruffy, rag-tag sidekick.  In what other place could you find a movie with a sorceress who loses her powers because she has sex?  (Thanks to the writers for not putting in a gratuitous sex scene showing the Rock.  I might have been scarred for life.)Overall this movie should be watched by those who enjoy only the best of comedic cinema.  Not seeing it would be a great folly.****/**** "},{"Title":"A decent action film, nothing spectacular.","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I for one, was waiting a long time to see this film. Being a huge WWF fan, I couldn't wait. Even though it was the Rock and not Triple H, I still wanted to see this film. The Scorpion King is a prequel to the Mummy series with Brendan Fraser. It takes place in Ancient Egypt, where a tyrant king is taking over land with the help of a soceress. Enter our hero, who is hired to kill the sorceress in hopes to weaken the tyrant king.First off, the script seemed a little hurried. It seems after the success of the Mummy Returns, the film makers just wanted to get another film out and reap the success. If they waited another year, and put together a better script, this film could have been a great film.Also, I think that the Rock is going to have Schwarzenneger Syndrome. This is a new disease (invented by me -P), where an actor is great in the action department, but just plain loses it when there is some seriousness in the film. Hopefully, the Rock will be better in the future. After seeing him on Saturday Night Live, I know that the man can act. Maybe it was just the horrible script in this film. However, he really did impress me with all of his fight scenes. But this should be a given, considering all the stunt work and fighting he does in the WWF.Decent movie, fun to watch, however, I would not see it again. I probably still will buy it on DVD when it comes out just so I have the complete Mummy series. One more thing, I still think this movie would've been ten times better if they used Triple H. But that is just my opinion.  "},{"Title":"This movie was positively bad","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not that the Rock is not a good actor. This guy has impressive screen presence. I feel that the movie producers did not take advantage of him as much as they could. The plot was non-existent. Why should we care about what happens to Memnon at Gommorah thousands of years before the Pyramids. BTW in the Mummy returns movie it is evident that the SK lives in the post-pyramid period of Egyptian history (?). Also the Arkadians is the name of a Greek (?) tribe.    "},{"Title":"above average action movie.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  People that are wrestling enthusiast will embrace this movie better than others.Although so-called action movie stars need less prowess in acting than let's say... drama actors,the script was a little mundane and tiresome. As with any good action movie,an awesome villain is required to complete the circle of good vs. evil.And a dandy of a villain they chose for this feature,the greatest swordsman in the land!!...unfortunately for the viewers his spectacular abilities are fleeting moments in the movie. The saving grace of the film is that there was ACTION frequently enough to keep you satisfied through the blemishes elsewhere. "},{"Title":"RENT IT!!!!!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If this movie didn't have the Rock in it, it would bomb and it would deserve to.  It's not bad but it's nothing that has been done before and done better. This is a good rental with a bunch of beer and friends. It felt like a big budget made for tv film. "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a decent movie, it had funny moments and some good action but it's nothing that we haven't seen before.  I thought the Rock did a good job overall (for a first movie), but I was surprised to see that he was very natural when he was simply talking and that his weakness actually happened during some action scenes where he made very weird faces (kind of like his wrestling faces/reactions during a match).  I don't know, I think that the Rock fans would be happy with this movie but as for the rest of people they would just find it pointless but still entertaining.  So overall I have to say it's average, at least it's not a movie that makes you feel bad at the end, it's just something that would entertain you while your in the theater, nothing more nothing less. "},{"Title":"Great action","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I agreed to go see this reluctantly, but (even though I'm not particularly an action fan myself) enjoyed the movie tremendously! The action scenes are riveting, the kind to keep you watching for what's coming next. There's one sequence in particular in the desert that demonstrates marvelous creativity and intelligence on the part of the hero. Action scenes are mixed with some great one-liners, and the Rock demonstrates his capacity for dry, understated humor. My only complaint is along the lines of continuity. The last scene seems to have his character (namely, his future plans) contradict the persona created by the rest of the movie. All in all, a must-see for those in the mood for an action movie. "},{"Title":"A great movie ...","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ... for me to poop on!  I liked The Mummy and (to a lesser extent) The Mummy Returns, but this movie was horrible.  It didn't even touch on the whole Mummy storyline, the acting is horrible, and the viewer doesn't give a crap about any of the characters.  The Rock should stick to wrestling - there aren't many red-neck's at the theaters. "}{"Title":"An all-too-familiar story","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have always been a big fan of The Rock. From his early years in the WWF as Rocky Maiavia to his classic championship matches with Triple H and Steve Austin. But as a movie star, The Rock is currently 0 for 2 in my books. The Rock made his debut in The Mummy Returns, an unsatisfying and badly directed movie. His new movie, The Scorpion King, is a little bit better but ultimately crumbles under a predictable story line. His performances are not bad. Unfortunately, the material does not deliver. In The Scorpion King, The Rock (real name Dwayne Johnson) plays Mathayus, an Arcadian who goes on a quest that will ultimately make him the Scorpion King. Mathias is one of the last remaining Arcadian, the rest were overrun by an army led by Memnon (Steven Brand), a skilled swordsman who plans to conquer all lands. Mathayus and his brother were hired to kill not Memnon but a sorceress named Cassandra (a beautiful Kelly Hu) whose presence leads Memnon's army to victory. David Hayter, William Osborne, and Stephen Sommers wrote the screenplay, and it looks like it has been recycled from previously recycled material. This story line has been used literally a hundred times in other movies. While watching this movie, a viewer can predict how the movie will end just ten minutes in. Of course Mathias will defeat Memnon and become king. Of course Cassandra will fall in love with Mathayus. Another disappointment in The Scorpion King is the action sequences. Although it contains non-stop action, the violent scenes were mostly done off camera. Compared to the images in Blade II, the images here look uncomplete. Director Chuck Russell was clearly going for the PG-13 here, and this made the action scenes fall short. The Scorpion King does have some good aspects. It improves on some of the things where The Mummy Returns failed. First, it did not use too much special effects. The Mummy Returns' overuse of special effects rendered its characters unnecessary; it failed to accompany the special effects with interesting characters. The Scorpion King uses just enough and does not let it overshadow its charismatic hero. Second, unlike The Mummy Returns, The Scorpion King did not slow down the action by keeping a high pace. It kept the adrenaline going, and at some times, this makes up for the predictable story. The Rock shows potential to become a major action star. He brings the same electricity and charisma from the ring to the screen. The movie benefits from The Rock's presence and an excellent ensemble cast. Steven Brand plays the villain Memnon with enough intensity to match The Rock, and Kelly Hu brings the screen to life with her beauty and charm. The Scorpion King will not have problem in the box office because of The Rock's legions of fans. Kids will definitely enjoy this movie. For adults, I guess this will not be a bore, but it's certainly something we have seen before.  "},{"Title":"Whining...","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  People whine about how this movie is not the greatest, how it is a waste of time, how it is nothing more than crap. I must disagree. To say that it is would just be pretty sad. It's a movie with a wrestler in it about a character seen in a few scenes in a movie about a mummy. You don't go to a film like this, knowing it, and expecting to see The Godfather with swords. It's an action movie.People were babbling about how the film was not an accurate historical feature. It's not supposed to be. In the opening lines, it says it's in a time before the Pyramids, yet we see The Scorpion King kicking ass in Egypt in the sequel to The Mummy. So what gives? The answer is quite simple. The pyramids were never shown in The Mummy Returns. It simply showed temples with a load of armies running at each other. It didn't say what the time period exactly was in Egypt, only it was thousands of years ago. The pyramids could have been on their way to being built, or were still on the drawing board.The Scorpion King was a good action movie, though the bloodless violence became quite annoying. You can show tits and ass, but no blood. So, what do we replace the blood with? Gushing and squishing sounds each time someone got cut or stabbed. Why? To make it clearer to us that someone just got run through with a really, really big sword.There weren't many plot holes that drew from the film, since it was an action movie. If you want to see a good ass kicking flick, go see this. Why? Because it makes any film with Ah-nold in it look weak. Sure, Conan had real nudity and blood, but The Rock just makes Arnold look like a friggin' preschooler. You can see he's going to become a great action star, or even a real actor. He has the look. His lines didn't come off as forced, he was natural. A far cry from the cliche wrestling speeches.Can you smell what The Rock is cookin'? Yes, I can. It smells like success and an all new muscle bound actor of the future who can, well, act.  "},{"Title":"The magic is gone.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ultimately, there isn't much to say about The Scorpion Kingbeyond this It just doesn't have the magic. The strength of TheMummy and The Mummy Returns is hard to pin down. In someways, it's a homage to B movies from the 1930s era.The Scorpion King doesn't have that. The humor is gone -- thepurposefully bad in places but funny as heck B movie script hasbeen replaced with the script of a below average action movie. Theeffects budget is all but gone. The action sequences aren't as big.The acting has lost the shine.If this had been a stand alone movie, I probably would have rated itas perfectly average. Actually, it's probably below average,although still entertaining. (I wonder what the 'average' rating is fora movie on imdb?) But as a followup for The Mummy and TheMummy Returns, I expected so much more. "},{"Title":"Conan wannabe fails miserably","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A rule of thumb that I developed some time ago is that every dollar spent on hype is two dollars NOT spent on production, and this movie certainly supports that rule. Far from being this generations Conan The Barbarian, Scorpion King is more likely to be this generations Krull.  And one of the many differences between The Rock and Arnold Schwarzenegger is that you can't see the stretch marks when Arnold flexes. My advice?  Rent Conan. "},{"Title":"Retread Garbage","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is something you have seen many times before.   Take any of the other barbarian type movies from your past (Conan 1&2, Beastmaster, etc.), plug in the Rock as the hero and you can watch it again for another $7.   The jokes aren't funny, the action sequences have too many quick takes and the acting is horrible.  I like the Rock as a personality, but he is not enough to make this movie tolerable.   "},{"Title":"I want my $10 back!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Can I please have a refund? Well I'll admit that I already walked into the movie not expecting much (based on watching the Mummy and Mummy 2), and walking out still unsatisfied doesn't say much for this film.The movie did pull in a few chuckles here and there, pulling in the same type of corny humor from Brendan Frasier's troupe. But overall, the script was very weak, and the choreography was only slightly better than Hercules/Xena fighting. Then again, we can't expect much from just a wrestler and an all-evil guy who only learned his moves shortly before the movie was filmed.Of all of the actors, why didn't we see more of Kelly Hu flexing her martial arts knowledge (well, as much as she can deliver?). She has had experience on Martial Law with Sammo Hung, plus she mentioned in a recent interview that she is currently studying a particular form of martial arts now. Maybe I've been spoiled by all of the kung fu movies I've seen with Jet Li! It's like drinking instant coffee after knowing what coffee in Europe tastes like. Now that America is experiencing more and more kung fu movies in recent years, these monster box office movies have to bring their fighting choreography up to par.All in all, I feel that after it's big opening weekend, we will see a quick die-out in the box office in latter weeks.3 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Great fun, does not require thinking...","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had a great time at this film. I didn't expect much but I was hoping for a worthy action film along the lines of Conan the Barbarian. The Scorpion King is just about as good as that old classic of swords and adventure. This film is about as fast paced as Raiders of the Lost Ark, there is never a dull moment. However, it wasn't totally exhausting to watch, there were some moments when you could catch your breath. Is it for kids? It features lots and lots of sword fights but no gore (my thanks to the director). It features quite a number of good looking young women wearing not a whole lot of clothing but no nudes. In fact it looks a great deal like a modern video game (think Jedi Knight but set in 2000 BC). I expect my boys will enjoy this film.As to the actors, based on this film I like the Rock better than a number of other of so-called action stars (such as van Damme or Segal). The Rock could well become the next Schwarzenegger, after all, Arnie wasn't a very good actor when he started but he had a sense of humor. The Rock seems to have a sense of humor too. He seems human, even if he doesn't look very human. Kelly Hu did well and looked great.  Bottom line good clean fun, promotes violence but what else is new? "},{"Title":"WISIWUG! what you see is what you get","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Overall, I would say that this movie is worthy of a trip to the big screen. I would definitely qualify this with an ...if you like action flicks. Michael Clarke Duncan is a nice addition to the cast, as I know him from movies like The Green Mile and The Whole Nine Yards (two great movies, both with excellent performances on his part).  Kelly Hu did well on her role as well, and is a very fine looking woman to boot.  I am unfamiliar with Steven Brand but he performed pretty well as the villain.The Rock (Dwayne Johnson) was everything I expected Big, menacing, cocky, and funny.  He definitely kicked some butt.  The one-liners were very modern and some of the scenarios in the movie were pretty far fetched (like the Chinese recipe) but added to the action factor.  As I said, WISIWUG.In conclusion, I would say that it could have been a better movie for me personally if they had tied in the storyline from The Mummy Returns.  But then again if you had not seen that movie I would guess that it probably wouldn't hurt not knowing the Scorpion King's fate.I would recommend that you go see this movie if you like action.  Don't expect a great plotline - it has an average one, at best.  Good stunts and a fairly neat concept, but it could have been better in my opinion.  I gave it a 6 out of ten, although a 6.5 was my actual comment on the way out of the movie theater - but isn't an option at the IMDB so I rounded down out of fairness to all the 7 movies out there.   "},{"Title":"What mummy?!?","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There's a good reason the word Mummy doesn't appear in the title. Even though this story is born from The Mummy Returns (second in the series) there is no real nod to its source, which is a good thing.Compared to the second 'Mummy' movie, this is an improvement. We see little of what was already told in the second 'Mummy' movie and it is capable of standing on its own.Fight scenes abound, of course, and Duane Johnson has a definite favorable screen presence. Smoother than Ahnolds 'Conan' the fight scenes were good, quick, and well executed.The plot lines move along pretty good, a few of them yes you are going to see coming from a good ways off but they don't dawdle on the journey getting to them.All in all a very enjoyable movie. There's a lot of formula going on it is as well, but it's not too annoying. An underdog considered evil turns into the good guy to topple the most capable warrior currently putting everyone under his thumb or to the sword. A love interest develops. The kooky sidekick is almost worthless but redeems himself in the end.The choreography, sets, and costumes are quite well done. I have no idea if they're accurate but then I didn't care, either, they looked good! "},{"Title":"'bout time they got a Swords & Sorcery movie right...","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a big fan of wrestling back when you had to argue whether it was fake or not...unlike now, when you can probably download the scripts.  Also, I've been disappointed by some recently released overhyped movies (Blade 2 comes to mind...).  And, of course, the two hours of my life I wasted on seeing Kull the Conqueror always weighs heavily on my soul.  So I went into this movie expecting the worst.  I was wrong.The plot for this movie is about as original as you can get within the S&S genre.  Just about every actor's performance is excellent, with very few overacting or embarassing moments.  The fight choreography is incredible, and they don't fall into the usual hero fights a crowd of baddies, one at a time trap that almost every action film gets stuck in.There have been a very small number of movies in the past 10 years that I've thought were worth the price of a matinee ticket.  This one is worth full price.  There hasn't been a sword movie this good since Conan. "}{"Title":"Hercules or Xena, the film!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, its not as bad as it could have been, but it could have been so much better.  The Rock has some good moments normally when hitting some one, and some bad moments i.e. talking (although, this isn't all his own fault). The dialogue is terrible although the script idea is quite good, although predictable.  Steven Brand makes a extremely good bad guy and you almost believe that he can beat the Rock.  Kelly Hu is quite good as Cassandra, the love interest and the rest of the cast treat the film with the tongue & cheek that it deserves.I can't think of a Chuck Russelle that I actually like.  Action wise he is very good and films such as lord of the Rings could take a leaf out of his book on how to film a fight scene although it helps that it is edited together will.  Again there is a problem that really ruins some of the scenes.  Hollywood and this film in particular seems to have no concept of physics (watch the beginning of the film and you will understand).  The films cgi is much better than in the Mummy Returns but then it could hardly be worse.  The sets are wonderful and the cinematography quite good. Costuming is quite minimalist but appropriate for the genre and score fits will into the film although the metal sound track that goes with every fight scene is a bit of a drag.Strangely enough I enjoyed The Scorpion King much more than I thought I would and would advise people to go and see it after a Friday night at the pub.  Its crap but enjoyable crap, which is the entire point of the film. Don't expect Lord of the Rings, don't even expect Conan the Barbarian, expect something more akin to Xena or Hurcules and you will love this film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Action Movie that deserves better reviews.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It seemed as if the Scorpion King was destined to be panned by critics before it was even released.  There are some reasons for that.  The main one being wrestlers turn actors have not exactly had best picture performances. How can we forget Hulk Hogan doin classics like  Suburban Commando, and Mr. Nanny? The fact is though, is that The Rock, er Dwayne Johnson is no Hulk Hogan. Johnson has the charisma, and intelligence to be a bona fide actor.  And I for one, believe he showed this in The Scorpion King.  Is The Rock a Russell Crowe or Denzel Washington?  Heck no!  But is he a potential action star? You bet he is. The Scorpion King has a good amount of action, humor, and a bit of romance as well.  A good blend that frankly was refreshing after watching dark movies like Panic Room and Training Day on DVD lately.  Now let me comment on a few things critics complain about.Critic  The movie has an un-original plot. Fact  So what?  This type of plot has been used for generations.  I guess that the Rock does it though makes it really really bad.  The Rock is good, he fights the bad guy, recruits other good guys, and kisses the girl.  Now what is wrong with that?Critic The Rock can't act. Fact  He's not a great actor, but he talks clearly, and looks confident in what he does.Critic  The overall acting is terrible Fact  While some lines are cheesy, I believe for an action adventure it wasn't bad.  Michael Clark Duncan certainly wasn't up to par as The Green Mile but then again, was he supposed to be?The truth is, many people hate this movie for the reason the WWF is involved with it.  Vince McMahon produces it and as we know The Rock is the star.  But if you looked past that, and the other fact that this isn't the Mummy 3 (many people complain that this doesn't fit the trilogy then you will have a great time watching this movie.  Please don't look at the newspaper and read reviews from critics who hate this movie simply they hate the WWF  "},{"Title":"Live free, die well, don't pay for this movie...","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie, it was planned as a straight to video release.  It seems to have taken a little detour to the big screen on it's way to your friendly local videostore with no change in quality or content. Come on, this was the longest episode of Xena I've ever seen.  The fight scenes, scantily clad females, the pointless sprinkling of actual historical names and places used completely wrong, and the smattering of CGI.  You can watch this for free in syndication.Of course, Xena/Hercules didn't have the Rock.  If you're a major Rock fan, you'll probably see this anyway and I'm not gonna stop you.  Go, enjoy, he raises his eyebrow and everything, you'll freakin' love it.  This review is for the non Rockaholics.The Mummy as a series started well, and then took a sharp right turn into Hell with the Mummy Returns, to date, one of the most painful and traumatizing experiences I've had in a darkened theater.  Mummy Returns was so bad it made the Mummy bad.  While the Scorpion King ISN'T Mummy Returns bad (rocket powered balloons??? <swallows tongue, convulses>) it's not that great either.  It's a little less than par with the gamut of sword and sorcery flicks that followed the original Conan, coming behind Beastmaster, but before Deathstalker IV, and about equal with Krull.  I can't remember any one liners, none of the action scenes really stand out, and the acting is pretty average.  Kelly Hu is a nice bit o' fluff, but doesn't really exhibit any acting beyond what she did on Nash Bridges or Martial Law. You won't see her again, less they need a Bond girl or something.This isn't meant to be some historical epic.  When in the opening scene the Rock shoots some Viking/Foghat-roadie into orbit with a triple bow and arrow arrangement, I kinda threw believability out the window.  Mindless entertainment is what they were aiming for.  One outta two ain't bad.  I wanted to stick around after the credits to see if that guy ever came back down...but my crew wanted outta there pretty badly.I think if the fight scenes had been choreographed better, it might've saved the movie.  How much does that Ying-Yang Ping guy Crouching Tiger cost anyway?  I refuse to believe he charged that much for the Musketeer (a flick that almost topples Mummy Returns from the crap throne) I think a little more style might've helped Scorpion King out.To sum up, I've been stung by a bee before, does that mean I will always have bee blood in my veins?  Peace. "},{"Title":"Action packed thrill ride that beats The Mummy Returns hands down!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very impressed by this film. It had wonderful sets and settings, funny characters, and minute after minute of heart pounding action! Now I'm not a fan of The Rock or wrestling for that matter, but he did extremely well. He shouldn't be compared to Arnie, rather an actor on his own. He was a fun guy to root for. The story is set in Egypt and the surrounding lands in the time before the pyramids (I think in The Mummy Returns they said about 6000 years ago?). Mathayus (The Rock) is an Acadian, the last of a tribe of deadly assassins, who is hired to kill the sorceror (who turns out to be a sorceress). He learns he is betrayed and instead of killing her takes her with him. Although a bad guy in Returns, The Scorpion King plays a good guy in this film. Maybe they will make another film showing how he goes down the path to evil (ala Star Wars). This movie was extremely well made concidering it came out ELEVEN MONTHS after Returns. If you want to have a great time don't miss it! 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Big frigin' balls, and that's all!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** A man impaled on a broad, pointed rock- NO BLOOD! A woman in the middle of a sandstorm, face down in the sand, with only a blanket over her, not a speck of sand in her hair or on her face. Many, many minutes of film flickering before my eye, not a bit of sense. If you like to see the guy get the girl (may lightning strike me if you don't expect that) and if you like to see the muscle maniac thrash badguy after badguy and a plucky sidekick, big loud sound effects, then this is your movie. It was almost as if they set out to make fun of bad testosterone 80's flicks, but it took it was actually made out to be original real entertainment. The intro scene is right out of a choke-me, kill-me, B-movie piece of crap film. Bad guys say You missed and then get hit right after, women say We will make all your fantasies come true hero says I make my own destiny, the heroin says not much, but she gets as close to nude as you can and not be rated R. Every hero, rock'em sock'em cliche that exists is pushed out of the screen and into your quickly dulling brain when you see The Scorpion King. The comedy never stops. Unbelievable mistakes, you must not take reality with you into this film, because when arrows are shot straight at you, they do not point UPwards out of your back. And when a hand removal is suddenly thwarted in front of the King, and the thief is still in the palace, he is soon trialed again, NOT SET FREE! All in all, it's a good laugh because it's so ridiculous. I applaud Director Russel if that is what he was going for. If he thought this was non-stop action, and great story-telling, then he is wrong. Two things that I do walk away with here; a great fight scene between the giant Michael Clarke Duncan, and the Rock himself. A nice turnabout from our legend heros, because we all know Duncan is in fact HUGE, and seeing the Rock just as tall was at least convincing, ever since I learned Schwartzenager is really a little over five feet it's been hard to think of him as a big threatening hero. But hey, he did not come from an acting background either, so maybe The Rock won't be a disappointment in future films. As long as he can get in a Terminator kind of roll, where it just works, otherwise, he will flicker and go away like so many. the other thing is that I actually hope to see a Scorpion King 2, watch how he goes from such a nice fella to being damned for all time in a box with half a scorpion body. when he's actually called The Scorpion King at the end, it doesn't make a lot of sense. And what the hell does Die well mean?! Blah....... "},{"Title":"No disappointment","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As a huge Rock fan I was waiting eagerly for the release of this movie. The (terrible) Mummy Returns had lowered my expectations, but after seeing The Scorpion King, these concerns were unfounded.  The Rock turns in a respectable performance and the rest of the cast do their jobs well.The film moves at a fast pace for the duration.  The sets, costumes and majority of the CGI work look great and the fight scenes and sword play are very well choreographed.  The Rock may not be Olivier, but comparisons are worthless and derivative anyway (especially those involving Schwarzenegger or Stallone).  It seems some people want to find fault simply because he is a pro-wrestler, when the fact remains this is a good action movie. Entertaining and involving, I was not in any way disappointed. "},{"Title":"The Return of a missed Genre.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Skantly-clad sword weilding Babes, Magic, evil kings, dorky sidekicks, Larger than life Beefy Heros beating up hordes of evildoers, vitualy no researching into the historical periods in wich their based, what I'm describing is the lost Sword and Sorcery Genre of movies.The Scorpion King has brought back everyhting I love (And hate) about this lost form of art-making.  Not quite Kung-fu action, not quite clint eastwood action, but just the right mix of the two.  And let's face it folks, what more is this thing than mindless action?  It's got a cookie-cutter plot and charcters that are even more two-dimentonal but when you get down to it. . .does it really matter?  Characters, stories, in this kind of film these things are just vehicles for the action.This movie is helped greatly by the fact no one really took it seriosly, we all like to see movies like this but when they try to come off as shakespear it takes away from the experince.  Movies like Army of Darkness, or Rumble in the Bronx proove we really don't have to be cool all the time.  Their's nothing wrong with sacraficeing a little dignity to get a laugh, and even Dwayne Johnson dousn't mind makeing a few jokes at his own expence.I say if you go into this movie expecting Gladiator, you'll be disapointed.  However, if you go in expecting a hack & slash fest with plenty of mindless action then you'll get your seven bucks worth. "},{"Title":"WWF strangles The Mummy franchise, while borrowing from another Fantasy/Adventure","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I never saw The Mummy Returns last summer, but I did enjoy the first film as it resurrected a classic in an entertaining way. Scorpion King finds &#145;The Rock' playing lead and WWF head Vince McMahon as one of the Executive Producers, and we are handed a movie with all the intellect and charm of McMahon's typical product.Following are some of my main complaints with the movie. The dialog is far to modern for events that are supposed to take place sometime in the B.C. ages.  Obviously we need to be able to understand it, but the characters speak as though the setting were the 21st century.  I wasn't surprised at all to find that nearly every five minutes anywhere from 1 to 15 half naked women appeared on the screen, as any one familiar with the WWF's techniques knows that they sell sex like no other.  Remember Rob Schneider's character in Judge Dredd?  That's right, this movie has an annoying just-along-for-the-ride sidekick as well, who offers his apparently humorous commentary as the movie progresses, I imagine for &#145;comic relief.'The Scorpion King is a movie made solely for the purpose of bringing in loads of cash, and I'm certain that it will.  After all, it's got millions of wrestling fans who will undoubtably adore it, and it will pull in fans of the Mummy films, who, by all rights, should be appalled.  My friends and I noticed that the movie bore certain similarities to another movie Kull the Conqueror.  Both are about barbaric warrior types  who ascend to rulership, and both involve a sorcerous.  As for me, I'll take Kull. Comparing the two, KtC would have to rank higher than Scorp King in my book, as it accomplishes it's task with a much smaller budget, and Kull had neither an annoying sidekick or the need for the appearance of buxom women every few minutes to retain the viewers attention, and at least it attempted to take itself seriously, something Scorpion King can't do, as demonstrated by their contentious attempts at humor.  As the film's promotional tag line said Kull reigns. Kull rules. Kull rocks.  Scorpion King merely falls to the side as an over-fed cash cow. "},{"Title":"Long Live the Rock!! or at least as long as the Scorpion King","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Way way back in Mummy Returns, the Scorpion King starts out losing his empire to some other warrior kings, with lots and lots of pyramids in the backgrounds. And so he does what any good Scorpion King would do, bites off the head of a large scorpion and sells his soul to the evil God Annubis and soon conquers all the world, with lots and lots of pyramids in the background, with his dog faced dark sand soldiers, who disappear after he conquers all.  Now this prequel tells us right off the bat, that Scorpy does all his rising up from trained assassin to warrior king in the time BEFORE the pyramids.So, I just assume that during the reign of Scorpion-1, the whole world got together and built lots and lots of pyramids to provide appropriate backgrounds for Mummy Returns. Right?Anyway, it ain't really a prequel, is it? But it sure was a lot of fun taking my son and two pals to the midnight show at theCollege Point Multiplex for this swell action comedy.  It was fun. And why shouldn't the Rock be the next Arnold now that Arnold is too old to be Arnold.  If IMDB had been around 20 years ago, the same people criticizing Rock's acting would have been death on Arnold back then, and they're lying if they say otherwise. To themselves.And Kelly Hu?  No offense boys, but I'll take Kelly in my dreams over that Latin egomaniac you call J-LO, anyday and twice on Sundays.If you like movies, see the flick. If you don't, find another website "},{"Title":"No sting in this Scorpion","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I Hope this film isn't the indication of the quality to expect from this years blockbusters.It only just justifys the cost of my cinema ticket.This film simply has nothing memorable about it. Poor script, average  acting,  lacklustre music score.It will no doubt appeal to youngsters and fans  of The Rock,  but not me,  so please abandon any idea of a sequel to this Mr Sommers, and return to the Mummy franchise.  "}{"Title":"Did I pay to see this?","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm ashamed totally ashamed to say that I actually paid to see this movie. This is one of those movies where you are either hung over, sick or just veggin on the couch and there isn't anything else to watch....Don't waste your money seeing it in the theater.....I wouldnt even waste the money to rent it. "},{"Title":"9 out of 10 for self-indulgent humour!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I haven't seen a funnier movie in months!  Anyone who didn't laugh right through this film missed the point it was an action-comedy.  I can't count the number of wrestling jokes, nor broken stereotypes, nor perfectly-timed goofy slow-motion cuts.  I'm sure that the film was intended to be serious most of the time.  Still, you can see that the cast had a great time making it, and intentional or not, the self-indulgence in the humour was a great alternative to the recent all-too-serious action that has come out lately. This is a fantastic film.  It'll tickle your funny bone.  And it's great to hear the Rock say I. "},{"Title":"So-So first effort by The Rock","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While The Rock made his film premiere in The Mummy Returns, his only real role in it was a few minutes of epilogue and some CGI sequences.  His role here is central and decidedly different in focus.  The movie itself is sort-of *okay,* starting out bad, then generating a good head of steam with action and real humor, before imploding under an endless stream of cliched action sequences.Probably the biggest let down is the script, which seems a mix of modern semantics and theatrics from the square cornball epic movies of the fifties.  Several dramatic episodes happen where the screenplay ka-thunks and the character spout lines like Who will stand against the bad guy? and We will make our own destiny.  And not matter what happens, you know the main characters will make it through without a scratch and be essentially the same as when they started out.  It's almost like playing a video game with the cheat codes on, except you're just watching. Conan the Barbarian, this film's closest relative, at least had some character development and soul searching, in addition to a better looking set design.  For a movie set about the early bronze age the steel swords are a bit out of place, as is costumes from all over the world and mannerisms that are decidedly modern.  The villain in particular is supposed to be a tyrant king of lore but with his British accent he seems more like a ticked off London cabbie who's mates gave him a bad haircut one night when he'd had a little too much Guinness.  The Rock makes a decent enough barbarian, although the script doesn't ask too much of him aside from what he does in his wrestling day job.  What I did notice on screen is how funny looking he is.  The Rock is bulked, but seems puffy, and he's got a receding hairline but very thick and a little too perfect looking hair.  Compared to Schwarzenegger The Rock looked more like a mannequin.  Still, this was a better movie than Arnie's first few outings (Conan was sometime later in his career) but for his next role Rock might want to consider something that lets him flex a little acting muscle. "},{"Title":"What do you think of this movie? It doesn't matter what you think!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  okay...that was a Rock reference SOME of you would have gotten...Anyhow, The Scorpion King is The Rock's debut, and it's not bad. It's not great either. I saw this the same day as I saw the emotionally shattering Iris, so Scorpion King was clearly going to be the lesser quality picture. Yet it does have charms...the humor, although immature and predictable, does amuse on some lowbrow level. Chuck Russell is a good director (The Mask, Eraser, The Blob and Elm Street 3 were all better than they deserved to be), and he keeps the energy flowing throughout most of the movie.The story and supporting characters (wacky sidekick, eccentric inventor, etc) have been done a thousand times before, and that gets in the way of the movie's zippy attitude a number of times.The Rock himself has yet to prove that he is capable of actually delivering a real performance, but he certainly has a presence...as any WWF fan will tell ya. Love him or hate him...you do pay attention.You know, Scorpion King is actually better than The Mummy or it's sequel. It knows when to quit, and doesn't tack on three climaxes too many. Plus it doesn't shove 250-plus digital effects shots down our throat. Scorpion King could actually be considered lowkey filmmaking in comparison!It's not Iris (or even Conan The Barbarian), but you can do a lot worse; you could watch The Mummy Rebandaged!   "},{"Title":"Better than critics say!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King was slammed by critics, but in my opinion it was an excellent movie. Dwane The Rock Johnson did a great job considering it was his first big movie (where he actually had more than a couple of lines). Yes the story line had a few holes in it, but all in all I found The Scorpion King to be a very enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Cheezy fun","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I didn't go into The Scorpion King expecting much, so I wasn't verydisappointed. This installment in 'The Mummy' series is really astandalone and doesn't require viewing of either (excellent)Mummy movies.When it comes down to it, we're all going to see the movie for thesame thing - The Rock. Is he worth it? Well, he won't win anyOscars for his performance, but he does a decent enough jobgiven the script that he has to work with. As for WWF references,well, there are a couple of things that you may pick up, but nothingas obvious as Do you smelllelelelelel what the Scorpion King iscooking!?The rest? Well, you have your goofy sidekick, your romanticinterest, your 'evil' villain, a bunch of posing, some good specialeffects and lots of flesh on-screen. My girlfriend pointed out afterthe movie that she didn't spot a single fully clothed femalethroughout the entire film.As stated in my summary, the movie is pretty cheezy, but easy towatch. You will definitely groan at several points of the film (somewhere the film wants you to, many where you don't). Be warned. "},{"Title":"Most fun I've had since.....","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The last time I had this much fun at a movie.  I never walked in expecting to learn a lesson about life or to find some deep spiritual meaning, but never-the-less, I was absolutely floored by this movie.  The major problem is that the film has the three letters of death associated with it  WWF. Don't believe me?  Ask the XFL.  Having those letters attached to anything is like a gymnast performing a move with only a 9.5 difficulty level. It's already at a disadvantage.Now I am a big-time WWF fan but not a huge Rocky fan, but as he always manages to do, he goes beyond the lousy script, the goofy dialogue and the average effects and makes you believe in him.  He's so damned likeable that it's almost annoying.  And who gives a care if his dialogue was limited to mostly grunts and groans.  This is a guy who night in and night out can tell a whole story in the ring and never speak a work, and who can have the whole audience hanging on and eyebrow and an elbow.I have to admit I was more dissapointed with Roger Ebert than I ever have been before about his criticism of this movie.  Mr. Ebert seems to be getting old.  He's been very inaccurate lately and this film is no exception.  If you read his review, he criticizes the film for a logical loophole in the dialogue.  And I quoteThe scene where they vow to kill the Scorpion King is especially impressive, as Mathayus intones, As long as one of us still breathes, the sorcerer will die! See if you can spot the logical loophole. Excuse me?  Excuse me?  Maybe it's time for Mr. Ebert to stop reviewing by cellphone...or maybe it's static.  Time to switch to Sprint.  The all digital all PCS network that.....you know the rest.  What gets me mad is that Ebert is like the premier critic of our age and if he can't get it right...how can we really take anyone else seriously?  Confused?  What I mean is that he's twisting the story.  Matthias was not contracted to kill Memnon.  He was contracted to kill the sorceress so that the armies would unite against Memnon.  But Ebert didn't care about that.  I love ya Rog....but you need to be more careful.  I'm no fan of pre-concieved notions, and I hope I'm not alone.Well, enough of that rant.  This movie was absolutly fantastic.  Moments to make you laugh, to make you sweat and to make you jump.  It's not quite as loud as some would have you believe, but the soundtrack pumps.  Rock has a bright future and Hu is just a hottie!  Hope to see more of her in the future...har har.I'm implore moviegoers, throw your WWF notions out the door and go see Duane Johnson make his starring premier.  Don't expect to see The Rock, don't expect to smell what he's cooking.  Just have fun and enjoy this nice piece of work.  It's no epic, but it stands alone!  "},{"Title":"Wasn't the first Conan sequel punishment enough?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Scorpion King isn't a horrible film, but it isn't a very good one,either. While the Rock and Kelly Hu are fine, every single othercharacter in the film is a stock cliche, trying desperately to have twodimensions, let alone three. The film has some nice production designand with a decent script and better direction could actually have beensomething honestly enjoyable. But its plot, stolen from the first Conanfilm, and its tone, bafflingly swiped from the second Conan film, leavea lot to be desired. Here's hoping next time I see the Rock and Ms. Huis something else it will be a little more worthy of at "},{"Title":"Not as good as Mummy and Mummy Returns","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Didn't find the characters that appealing.  The Rock is great as a mass of muscle, but he should say less at this start of his film career, like Conan the Barbarian.   About the fighting, too many closeups, not enough expansive scenes, and too much punching and kicking.  Come on, hands and feet are no match for swords.  Also, there wasn't any magic or magical creatures which made the Mummy and Mummy Returns decent.  The environment looks too much taken from a Hercules or Xena tv show - costumes and setting need some work. The comedy doesn't work as well in the first two Mummies either.  Scripted too much like a tv hour Xena. I give this a 5/10 and not lower because of Kelly Hu, who looks great. "},{"Title":"The Scorpion King * * *","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is simply a fun film that is not to be taken to seriously as an action film.The film falls right in the categories of one of those action films that is not explosive nor is it exciting but you just don't care.You're having fun.The film stars The Rock as the same character from The Mummy Returns.The Rock(Dwayne Johnson)has a performance in the film that is campy and fun at the same time.I'm not expecting The Rock to give the audience a Robert De Niro or Al Pacino like performance.If they want to see a film with a performance like that,then why are you watching this film when you should be watching The Godfather at home?I sat through about 2 hours of this film and I have to admit that I pretty much liked it.I was expecting for The Rock to give the people's eyebrow at least once in the film.Does he?You have to see the film for yourself and find out.The dialoge in the film can be a little corny at times and the acting in the film is on the same level but all that is surrounded by alot of action in the film and humor that makes the movie more fun to watch.The Scorpion King recieved terrible reviews from critics.Some put down The Rock's performance saying that he makes Arnold Schwarnegger seem like Laurence Olivier.If these critics were expecting a good performance,then why did they see this film?I Liked The Scorpion King and yes I liked The Rock.This is a fun film and that's pretty much how I look at it. "}{"Title":"Hollywood Bollywood-style","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Franchise movies usually run out of steam by the third movie, and The Scorpion King is no exception. My advice is that if you're looking for a time-pass movie that doesn't require brainpower, then watch The Scorpion King. If you're looking for a follow-up to the excellent The Mummy, and The Mummy Returns, then this is NOT the movie to watch.After I saw The Scorpion King, the only way I could summarize it was Hindi Movie (for those not familiar with Indian cinema, my comment meant that the movie was silly, and pointless, but a heck of a lot of fun; for those familiar with Indian cinema, let's just say the writers of the movie have probably watched too many Rajnikant movies). The plot is quite thin, and almost predictable. Plenty of scantily clad women running around though, and some comic relief in through a sidekick (cliched), and a eccentric scientist almost make this an Egyptian James Bond.I suppose knowing that the WWF had a large hand in the making of this movie (The Rock's ... acting talents as main lead, and Vince McMahon's entertainment philosophy as Executive Producer) made the slightly painful experience a little easier to accept. "},{"Title":"Didn't Disappoint","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I wasn't disappointed by The Scorpion King.  The only problem is that I expected less than the other two (excellent) Mummy movies and got pretty much what I expected.  It is obvious here that the producers spent all their money on the untested boxoffice appeal of The Rock and had little left over for special effects.  Yes, there are a few outstanding efforts  the attempted execution of Mr. Rock by red ants and two dizzying high ledge scenes.  But unless you are a BIG fan of endless (and poorly choreographed) swordfights, you will find little else to want to see a second time.  So much in this movie is borrowed from Spielberg's Indiana Jones series that it's almost plagerism.  A decent first film for The Rock --- but maybe Vince McMahon should produce his next one.  Maybe a wrestling remake of Rock-Y. "},{"Title":"Mindless action flick with big muscly guy.","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not quite what I was expecting.  It didn't completely suck, I can think of much, much worse, it's just a good example of how hype can so easily suck you in...Basically, it's like someone said Let's make a movie for The Rock, and I'm guessing that's exactly what they did...right?  The Scorpion King fails to deliver the same sort of thrills and spills or convey the same sort of atmosphere that made The Mummy and The Mummy Returns so likeable, so it's highly advisable not to go in expecting the same sort of experience.  It's one big, mindless, action flick with lots of pretty effects, slick cinematography, a big muscly guy running around kicking lotsa bad-guy butt, and one hell-of-a-babe-of-a-sorceress.    Make sure you switch off your brain beforehand....     "},{"Title":"Not as horrible as you'd think","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It looks like everyone pretty much covered all the reasons why you should NOT see this stinker.  Now, here are reasons why you SHOULD see this movie1. You get to see Kelly Hu's smooth, supple, well-proportioned body in a shiny, ultra-reflective, golden bikini.2. You get to see the Rock looking like an idiot charging into battle on a camel.3.  The script is laughably bad.4.  The Rock's lines are mostly limited to grunts and one-liners.5.  You get to see Kelly Hu in an outfit that looks like a bathrobe that was shredded and then partially taped back together.6.  The costumes and props (as well as most of the extras) look like they were leftovers from Braveheart, Conan, Shaka Zulu, Mummy 2, Brotherhood of the Wolf, and Moulin Rouge.  All at once.7.  More medieval, multicultural T and A then Xena, Hercules, Beastmaster, and V.I.P. combined.  (actually pre-medieval by several k... I don't think viewers will care or notice either way)8. Peter Facinelli looks like a scrubby Tom Cruise, except maybe a little shorter.  Wait a second, that's probably a reason NOT to see SK...8. You get to see Kelly Hu's golden, nude, moist, turgid body rising out of a bath in a spray of water and strategically placed tresses.9.  The plot is admittedly and recklessly stupid and simple.  I prefer it that way in a movie of this sort.  I can't stand stupid movies that don't know they are stupid.10.  Did I mention Kelly Hu?Don't get me wrong; the movie still sucks.  For the reasons above, I give it a generous 5 / 10. "},{"Title":"You get what you should from this movie...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's fun. The action sequences are fun and well choreographed. The humour is the cheezy kind we've been missing since Arnold and Sly were in their heydey. "},{"Title":"Bring on the Women","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the movie that I have been waiting for...a long time... It is the way I would have wanted a sequel to CONAN the Barbarian to play out. It has all the romantic love theme that Boris Vallejo's excellent Tribal paintings have... The sword fighting scenes were the highlight of the movie... Rock's expressions are in line with that of a CONAN type warrior. And the sorceress yummy Kelly Hu is a total BABE PHEST! And I did like her acting also. The supporting actors added that lighter side of life to the film, great stuff. The overall movie was typical of CONAN style if you have read the series roles. To all whom did not enjoy the movie's style, stay home and play with your toe jam - 'cause I really liked it!!!!! Good luck to all the cast. "},{"Title":"Wanna see the Rock, Nicholson, Deniro and Hanks in the same paragraph?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, it's cliched. Ok, it rips off about a dozen other movies. Ok, the Rock is not an actor, but a wrestler.Overall, it was a lot better than I thought going in.What we have is a ridiculous plot, a bunch of Hollywood claptrap, and and a script that is, by all standards, above par for modern movies...which means while I probably wouldn't use it to wipe after #2, I wouldn't frame it on the wall either.But the Rock transcends all that. He was, as a larger than life character, asked to play a larger than life character. And he did it.While this movie appears to have everything going against it, it is entertaining. Of course, I wouldn't give it a ten (like all you other ignorant, blind, dumb yahoos who vote-pumped LOTR and Harry Potter into the top 3) or compare it to Conan, but there is something about seeing somebody who fills a legendary character out because they themselves *are* a legendary character.I expected him to put up a rather shallow performance, just like Hulk or Roddy, but instead he made Matthias his own, not a reflection of his ring persona.Unlike say Jack Nicholson or Robert DeNiro (you read it right, I am comparing Dwayne to both) if you see them on the screen you basically have met the person. The Rock, however, rose above what the screen tried to make him. In every cliche shot, you get the the typical slo-mo bruhaha. However, in those where he's actually acting, you get a hint of how much he adds to the performance, much like how Tom Hanks took Gump and made him real instead of a cartoon.Overall, I would recommend this film to action fans (except you Conan geeks) and Rock fans, but don't go in with high expectations. Remember, Indy 2 stank, even though it had Harrison Ford.Just one other thing I'd like to say Kelly Hu, you are totally hot. If I wasn't married.... "},{"Title":"Why are the critics being so mean?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  We found this enjoyable and light-hearted, lots of action with an Indiana Jones feel to it. The film never takes itself too seriously and is never lacking in fight scenes. I'm not sure why the critics have decided to hammer this so badly, maybe they just feel they can't say nice things about spin-offs. I thought that some of the personal remarks made about the stars were uncalled for (eg The Rock - With his bulging eyes, skinny plucked-looking eyebrows, heavy-metal mane and monotone voice said one). If you're looking for Shakespeare and thespians, don't go to see this film. If you're looking for an enjoyable and slightly tongue-in-cheek action film, you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"I can't Believe that it even got a 5!!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Can somebody please tell me why anyone would want to see this pointless movie?? It is based on a character in Mummy 2, that was in the movie for ten minutes. Doesn't anyone else see that as a waste of money? All that money and time invested in a movie on a ten minute character is STUPID!! The Rock is bad enough in the WWF, let alone on the Silver Screen. This movie should be boycotted to let Hollywood know that all of the intelligent movie fans are not quite gone yet!!I don't even have to see this movie to know that it will be rated as a 3 tops!!ROCKY SUCKS!!! "},{"Title":"Caution","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Hi, I went to see this movie on night it premiered at the theatre. I cannot emphasize this enough. If you want to see an interesting movie, with a decent plot, convincing characters, and some good quality action scenes,..... Stay clear. You'd stand a better chance watching space balls. I wouldn't say the Scorpion King has a shallow plot. It has no plot! The rock is supposed to be some skilled assassin who vows to end the reign of a King called Memnon. Memnon was made king, as he was mightiest warrior in the land. His quest for domination of the entire land catches the attention of Mathayus (the scorpion king), who is paid to kill Memnon's sorceress. The sorceress is the reason for Memnon's victory. He doesn't though. Mainly because she's always scantily dressed. This is as deep as the plot goes. Again, let me warn you that it will be much better if you rented space balls from blockbuster. "}{"Title":"would have been better if it were Rated-R","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King was a fun movie with good fight scenes but there was a lack of blood due to the PG-13 rating. I understand that because the producers wanted to make the movie appealing to kids. Plus if it were rated-R, we could have seen Kelly Hu naked and that woman is HOT!!! Warning Spoiler It was good to see a people's eyebrow. "},{"Title":"Not The Mummy, But Still Good","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King was a pretty good movie. The acting by the Rock wasn't that great, but the story was good, the the other actors were great. This movie isn't as good as The Mummy or The Mummy Returns but it still belongs with The Mummy legacy. "},{"Title":"This movie hurt my brain.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I normally don't go for these no-brainer action flicks, but once I received 2 passes to the advance screening in Vancouver, I thought 'Ahhh, who knows - there might be some decent special effects and kickass sound... I mean, it *is* basically 'The Mummy 3' right?'.Oh.....dear......Lord...! Instead, I got to witness one of the most dull, unoriginal, overacted pieces of cinema filth ever created. I'm sorry if I sound harsh (gee, do I?!) but I was so upset that I wasted $7 in public transit fare to get to the theatre and back.I'm just going to quickly spout off here. 1) The fire ants looked like CGI from the early 90's. Weak! 2) Gratuitous use of everyone's favourite 'Sckhgghtcchh' sound whenever someone gets stabbed. It got tiring after the first few deaths. 3) This movie had absolutely NO innovative ideas whatsoever. I spent the first 5 minutes figuring out how the rest of the movie was going to go. I wasn't far off...Bah! I was hoping that I'd at least be able to laugh at this movie, but it was *so* bad that I sat there, writhing and twisting and groaning in my seat, anxious for the ending. When it came, the entire audience let out a sigh of relief, and piled out of the theatre. I overhead this commentWell, he's a better actor than Hulk Hogan. Ah, that doesn't say too much though.Mmm, true. "},{"Title":"A Solid Popcorn Flick","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is a solid, entertaining popcorn flick.  It never pretends to be anything but that.  At 88 minutes, it moves fast enough to keep you from thinking about anything but the action onscreen.  Dwayne The Rock Johnson shows why he is the single most popular sports entertainment performer around.  His personality bleeds off the celluloid, and the script wisely gives him only 10 or so lines so that we never have to question whether or not he can act.  The Rock has two things going for him that other wrestlers-cum-actors, most notably Hulk Hogan and Rowdy Roddy Piper, lack athleticism and charisma.  People have been making a lot of comparisons between Rock and Arnold, and I think they are valid.  This is nowhere near the caliber of Conan the Barbarian, but it isn't Conan the Destroyer either. If The Rock picks and chooses his scripts carefully to showcase his talents and mask his shortcomings, and gradually improves in those areas, then we could really be looking at the next big action hero. "},{"Title":"I bet there would be ways to stream The Mummy","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Remember in The Mummy Returns, the writer talked about the past and the present.  The Scorpion King appeared was killed at the end of the story.I really don't like the action flicks in this story.  Chuck Russell (The director for BRIDE OF CHUCKY) did it around average and a film like this should never spend too much time on meaningless flicks. The introduction of Cassandra is wonderful because it was about great betrayal.  I also think that the roles are very weak and comical.  Perhaps Chuck just tries to make it talk of the town.   That disappointed me by introducing a very heroic King.Frankly, I think you'd better seen that at home, instead of wasting these few dollars in cinemas.  "},{"Title":"Wasn't as good or bad as it could have been.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I had been hoping for more, but it could have been far worse.The rock wasn't too bad, but at no point was any of the acting gripping.Cliches were present in every scene, including the scientist who's just discovered gun-powder...My ex-girlfriend did get a good hours sleep on my shoulder.. So one of us enjoyed the movie. "},{"Title":"could have been better....disappointed","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie has too much wrestling influence.....instead of allowing The Rock to show his true acting abilities off (if he truly has any), he acts just as he does in the WWF....had he been more serious and the movie been more intense, then it could have been much better......instead we are provided with some comic relief....a lot like Ancient Egyptian Wrestling with a storyline....I say give The Rock another chance to show his acting abilities "},{"Title":"Your basic kick ass movie.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As far as this movie goes I really don't see what people are complaining about.  This was your basic bad guy kills good guys' brother, good guy seeks revenge type of a movie.  The plot is simple, the characters are basically very easy to understand and the movie is spelled out for you.  I would have liked to see a more developed script, however this one in my opinion is acceptable.  I didn't go to this movie to experience some huge life changing revelation or for it to be some though provoking drama.  I went to the movie to see the good guy triumph over evil with multiple sword fights and banter between characters along the way.  Every actor pulled off their characters as well as they could.  The only thing is the movie that made me sigh was the amount of time the sorceress stayed in her little rag tag/barely covers her skin outfit after Mathayus kidnapped her from Memnon's palace.  I'm sitting there going They're now in an encampment full of people and no one has anything she can borrow.... right...  Beyond that I had no complaints.  They just played out the sexy chic thing for too long.If you liked The Mummy, and The Mummy Returns you should like this movie. It's the same writing style that has the action/adventure/romance all rolled into one.  If you don't go into the movie expecting to be blown away by some heavy drama then you should like it.  Go and see it just for the sheer entertainment factor, not the brain power (or lack there of) that it takes to follow the story. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and a Good Laugh","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Took the teenager, whose eyes 'danced with delight' at the babes and the action. It was good for a laugh at times too. I liked the movie as it didn't appear to take itself too seriously- I mean are we that stupid to believe Polynesians were found in the Middle East, 'before the Pyramids?' Come on folks this is light romp in the forest with a bit of wrestling, muscle and might and good bods to boot. I paid good money but didn't feel ripped off like I did seeing Panic Room. At least I came away entertained. I gave it a six. "},{"Title":"Death of the Myths","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Terrible, terrible, terrible. Few films made me leave the theater feeling worse than when I walked in. To watch this film is to witness the death of Motion Pictures. Or at least the death of an era that started in the 70's with Jaws and Star Wars, later developed in the 80's with films like Raiders of the Lost Ark, and turned movies into myth machines. But THEN, they were made by filmmakers who were making personal statements! Who believed in what they were saying, and had the talent to make the magic. I have no words to describe how sad I am to see movies like this being made and becoming successful at the box office. The visual effects are bad, the action is boring, the jokes aren't funny... and The Rock is NOT Schwarzenegger! I'm sorry to say this, but I love the movies... and this film is to them what a cancer is to my soul.  "}{"Title":"surpassed my expectations","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I went to this movie because a friend bought my ticket - what a surprise! This is NOT a Mummy sequel - just based on a common (?) character. Great action, sword fighting... a few good guys outnumbered by lots of bad guys against enormous odds. OK, it's not original, but it's mighty satisfying! And funny, too. Recommended if you like action movies. Don't wait for the video. "},{"Title":"Conan Rip-off","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, this movie had it's moments, but it ripped off several movies, mainly Conan the Barbarian.  Minimal character development, several plot loopholes, and mid-level CGI made this movie about as average as possible.  Sure it has The Rock, but a total absence of Rock-related wrestling moves makes the audience look at him as an actor, and his performance is average at best. The plot was contrived could not flesh out in the short running time. Overall, this movie was lame.  See it only if you absolutely love The Rock or have nothing else to spend your money on. "},{"Title":"A Movie Worth Watching...","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay...I know a lot of people didn't like this movie, but I thought it was funny! It was refreshing and new...something that The Mummy and The Mummy Returns didn't fulfill with-in me. In those two movies there was a whole lot of Drama, and yes...in The Scorpion King there is a lot of Drama, but there's a lot of Comedy too. I know this will never beat The Mummy Returns in my book...but it's a good movie to watch. The Rock can do better in his acting, but I have to say it was a great movie.A little Ardeth in it wouldn't have been so bad, but you guys this is a Spinoff...of course they could have kept the rock/pop stuff out of it, but other then that...it was a spinoff. Watch the movie...it's funny...but it hurts the EARS!Jenny "},{"Title":"Good, campy fun for a child of the 80's...","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is doesn't pretend to be anything that it isn't. It is simply a cheesy adventure-flick, in the style of such classics as Conan the Barbarinan and Masters of the Universe. It doesn't have a groundbreaking storyline or isn't even terribly original. The whole point of this film is fun, and fun it is. As for casting, I couldn't have cast it better myself.Dwayne Johnson, aka The Rock does just a fine job in his first starring role, well as fine as one could expect as muscle=bound wrestler to act. He's just a tad more expressive than Ah-nold, without the annoying accent and as for Sly, Sly's just too damn old, to look threatening. It's about time we came across a new musle-bound action hero, The Rock fits that role perfectly and manages to look more convincing than Arnold ever did, with the sole exception of his portrayal of Conan in Conan the Barbarian. The one thing that could use serious work is the special effects department. Needless CGI is a freaking waste of time. They animated ANTS for chrissakes. What a waste. There is nothing that puts me off more than cheap CGI, especially when it'd be cheaper to just use real insects, and gawd, don't get me started on the virtual snakes. WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG WITH REAL SNAKES?!?! All in all, The Scorpion King is worth seeing just once, if for no other reason to feel like a child of the 1980's, enjoying the kind of 80's camp that doesn't get produced anymore. *** 1/2   "},{"Title":"Scorpion King The Destroyer","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've heard there is a Mummy 3 in the works. This is not Mummy 3. It's a spin off that is more like a cheap version of Conan than the Mummy.The Rock does a decent enough acting job. Although he's no Hulk Hogan, brother. Seriously he might succeed where many others have failed in the transition from wrestler to actor.This movie is pretty mindless action fare. It steals from a variety of different movies. From the nightclub scene in Indiana Jones and The Temple of Doom to the hand in the hole Russian Roulette style game in Flash Gordon.It's funny that Rock and Michael Clark Duncan say that their fight scene was the best fight scene ever filmed in the history of film. It was O.K., but c'mon, the diner fight scene in No Holds Barred was more memorable.Vince McMahon is listed as an Executive Producer. No wonder WWF TV is so heavily promoting this flick. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good(spoiler)","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First off i have to say it was entertaining.  But also which brought it down was it's flaws.  I thought it could have been longer and have more of a story.The plot is Mathayus(the rock) is sent to kill the evil king memnom's(steven brand) sorcerer(kelly hu), until he realizes she is a beautiful women who could be of use to him, he takes her and the hunt is on to kill him and get back the girl. along with his comedic sidekick(grant heslov), big barring buddy(michael clarke duncan), kid friend, crazy scientist guy and his trusty camel the scorpion king is off to save the dayThe Rock is good in his true first acting role and should reprise the role if their is ever a mummy 3.  I give this movie a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Wrestling on Steroids","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a vehicle for promoting The Rock, nothing more nothing less. It will be compared to Arnold's Conan fling, from now until forever.  And my opinion is that the Scorpion King is 10 times better.  In this Role Dewayne Johnson, is more fluid both with his movements and line delivery.  He is not a finished project by any means, but you can not keep his natural personality from just oozing through.The movie is a thrill ride from beginning to end, with no more than 15 minutes between any big fight scenes.  It has more of a feel of a high dollar martial arts movie or something ala John Woo.  Don't look for the political intrigue of Gladiator or the love story of Braveheart, but expect the action of both combined.  If you like beautiful woman, go see the movie. If you like Rock go see the movie.  If you like action fight scenes or quick one line humor (like Judge Dred or Indiana Jones) go see the movie. Or if you just want to be entertained, GO See The Movie. "},{"Title":"if Conan the Barbarian had Bimbos and Rock'n'Roll...","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  But to say that degrades Conan the Barbarian, which is a world of slut-goddesses and pagan idols of gore and bloodshed.  But It's pretty clear early on that this is not a movie capable of that level of intelligence.  The Scorpion King does have a  a cheap kind of fun(like both Mummy's), but at the same time is so vapid, obvious, styleless, near thoughtless, inconsequential, and derivative that it only wanders away from the action/adventure cookie-cutter to make jokes in the 'Indiana shoots the swordsman' way.  Acting would be less hollow if it were performed by a print mold.  But i did learn some thingsMetallic blades are very sharp and loud(*shling*), humans sound very juicy. It's fun to carry around human heads to prove points in conversation. Nipples magnetically cling to human hair and clothing. Repeating jingles makes it ok when your friends die. No such thing as an ugly woman in Barbaria. Even nomad mercenaries need blithering wisecrackers and zany inventors as sidekicks. Why is The Rock willing to die to kill the seethy villian?  He killed who? Oh, I forgot about him.. Women will kick you.. you know where. Only virgins have special powers.I've seen too many movies where a kid can disembowel someone and a second after look so Aww don't you just wanna squeeze him and wobble his head he's so cute.  This movie is almost as bad as Wild Wild West. "},{"Title":"It was ...okay..","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well well well, we finally have the highly-anticipated Scorpian King hit theatres.  Universal put alot of money to advertise the film (which they SHOULD have done more with films like A Beautiful Mind) and The Rock going from HBO to Entertainment Tonight telling people how great a movie this is. Now don't get me wrong, the movie was not bad, plot-wise though it wasn't great.  This film's plot could have been much better, but everything else music, cinematagrophy, action-sequence and the no over-use of special effects, were good.  And those are the things that saved this film from being bad.  On a scale of 1 to 10 I give it a 6 1/2. "},{"Title":"if Conan the Barbarian had bimbos and rock'n'roll...","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  But to say that degrades Conan the Barbarian, which is a world with slut-goddesses and pagan idols of gore and bloodshed.  But It's pretty clear early on that this is not a movie capable of that level of intelligence. The Scorpion King is so vapid, obvious, styleless, thoughtless, inconsequential, and derivative that it only wanders away from the action/adventure cookie-cutter to make jokes in the 'Indiana shoots the swordsman' kind.  Acting would be less hollow if it were performed by a print mold.  But i did learn some thingsMetallic blades are very sharp and loud(*shling*), humans sound very juicy. It's fun to carry around human heads to prove points in conversation. Nipples magnetically cling to human hair and clothing. Repeating jingles makes it ok when your friends die. No such thing as an ugly woman in Barbaria. Even nomad mercenaries need blithering smart asses and zany inventors as sidekicks. Why is The Rock willing to die to kill the seethy villain?  He killed who? Oh, I forgot about him.. Women will kick you.. you know where. Only virgins have special powers.I've seen too many movies where a kid can disembowel someone and a second after look so Aww don't you just wanna squeeze him and wobble his head he's so cute.  This movie is as bad as Wild Wild West. "}{"Title":"Worth a look, just for a lark...","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I read an article in the entertainment section of a recent newspaper, under the heading `Movie Beefcakes are Back, and Looking Silly'. And now, after giving in to curiosity and seeing The Scorpion King, I would have to agree.but `silly' doesn't necessarily equate to `bad'. This bewildering prequel to the sequel of the remake (anyone confused yet?) sees the hulking Dwayne Johnson, aka. The Rock, joining such action heroes as Sly Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger. He stars as an assassin named Mathayus, who gets more than he bargained for when he and his mates are hired to bump off the evil King's sorceress advisor.Simple enough, hardly differs at all from any other warrior-barbarian horde-sword fighting flick. I say bewildering though, because it doesn't seem to make much sense as far as the Mummy films are concerned. The Mummy Returns saw the bloodthirsty Scorpion King storming cities with his army of Anubis warriors and murdering people left right and centre. Here we have a tough-guy assassin who teams up with a tribe of people against a tyrannical king, and basically becomes a wisecracking softy. This film could have been called something else.'Mathayus the Liberator'.or the `Bonehead Akadian'. It wouldn't have made much difference, and it could have worked as a stand-alone story. Perhaps we'll see Mathayus turn to the dark side in `Scorpion King Episode II - Attack of the Weird Dog-headed Guys'. While it's not a great lead role debut for the wrestler/actor, it's not terrible either. The film makes us remember that being able to swing a big sword about and slash lots of villains can sometimes make up for the inability to remember more than one line of script at a time. And while it doesn't seem entirely appropriate in the setting, the humour is plentiful and chuckle-worthy, even if most of it does come through the cliché comedy sidekick.Also, a special round of applause must go to the special effects department, not for the quality of their work, but for the unusual restraint they were able to show. After seeing the Mummy Returns and being bombarded with a nauseating overdose of CGI, it was refreshing to see the Scorpion King work with only a few necessary, well-placed effects. Overall, a 6 out of 10. More than a little cheesy, and not very original.mostly a `been there done that' affair, but with a modern feel to it, and good, healthy action. I considered giving an extra point out of ten for Kelly Hu's revealing clothing, but that wouldn't have been very professional. "},{"Title":"An OK film that could have been much better","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Rock is suited to a role where he slices everyone up with a sword and shows little emotion. The script is terrible but the action keeps this entertaining, although it does get a little repetitive. Lets hope there is no Scorpion King 2 though, as one was, to be honest, more than enough. "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but certainly not great either.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'll stick to the middle of the road on this one.  I saw the sneak preview last night, and went in expecting VERY little.  I got just a tad more than that.  It isn't going to win awards.  It's pretty clear by the storyline the writers didn't put too much time into writing it.  The formula has been used a million times, and will likely be used a million times more - A good enough bad guy sees the light and decides to take on the evil bad guy. There is a funny sidekick, a beautiful woman, a bad guy that ends up being good, and a traitor (who looks and sounds surprisingly like Tom Cruise).Scorpion King REEKS of the Conan movies.  And it was about as good as the Conan movies.  The Rock wasn't too bad, his acting was a tad bit better than I anticipated.  The action was enough to keep me awake, & the one liners were flowing throughout the movie.  The crowd seemed into the movie, although alot of comments leaving the theater were about the same as my wife's not good at all.  I've given it a 5, but I may be a tad generous on that one.  It will be good enough to bank some BIG box office numbers, with a steep decline in the 2nd and 3rd weeks.  Should finish at roughly 80-100M. If the Millions....and millions of rock's fans show up, that is.  Go into it expecting very little, turn off your brain for 90 minutes, and bring along with you your suspension of disbelief and you'll be just fine. Hey, it's better than the Musketeer... "},{"Title":"To be or not to be, disappointed  (Possible opening scene spoiler)","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Going in to see The Scorpion King I looked around to see how many people were there to see the movie itself, and how many were there to see the WWF Wrestling Superstar Dwayne The Rock Johnson.  To my surprise most everyone was there to see the third installment of the Mummy.  I myself was there to see the movie, as well as check out one of my favorite Wrestling superstars.  As the movie opens we are set in a Snowy, mountainous climate. We see a band of Barbarians, Vikings we can only assume, and they have captured a man.  The man turns out to be Mathayus (The Rock) brother.  This begins the battle, and from this point on we have pretty much nonstop action.  Like The Mummy, and Mummy Returns the choreography, and special effects are amazing.  Stephen Sommers once again added his zaney, and sarcastic humor to the screenplay.  Unfortunetly if you are looking for the acting to be as good, and the line delivery to be on que, don't hold your breathe.  Though the action sequences are well choreographed, and look marvelous.  The acting is, well there's no other way to put it except, s****y.  I mean I didn't go in to the movie expecting a great performance from The Rock, but I was expecting a decent one from Michael Clarke Duncan, and Steven Brand.  Very disappointed to see such talented actors doing so poorly.  Though I knew Dwayne Johnson wasn't great I thought he may do semi decent.  After seeing him in a speaking role, I have just one bit of advice for Mr Johnson.  Take some acting classes, or stick to Wrestling, If you smell what I'm cooking.  If you plan on seeing this movie for more than just the action sequences don't waste your full price admission money.  See it when it hits the discount theatre.  That's all for me on this movie, until next time.  BB "},{"Title":"Decent big dumb movie where everything goes boom","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A bit more slapstick than I might have thought, but other than that,  The Scorpion King is pretty much what you think it is.  The question is not whether it is good in the movie geek sense (read no.  Of course not.)  But is it a good popcorn flick?  Yup. The Rock says all the right words in the correct order.  Actualy, I kinda like him, although I can't really say why.  The middle-eastern guy from True Lies is the cornball sidekick...I like this actor, but the character he was given to play is annoying.  The bad guy is suitably bad, the heroine provides the requisite hootage.  If this seems a little generic, well, it is...but that's the point.  The film has the necessary momentum that distinguishes a good movie like this from a bad one.  It's fun.  All the violence is A Team style everyone dies, no one bleeds.  Exactly what you think it is, and well done at that. "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE!!!!!","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd heard nothing but good reports about this film so I decided to take a look and seen as I'm a fan of the WWF and The Rock anyway I thought it seemed like a good movie.And it is indeed a spin-off from the Mummy saga, its basically a prequel to The Mummy Returns. The story is a Warrior defies an empire and goes to war leading a nation into battle and becoming a legend.I would go into greater depths but I do not want to spoil the film for those who haven't seen it, but it basically tells you how The Scorpion king from the mummy returns became who he was.The plot itself is good and the acting even better, its a great adventure which kept me on the edge of my seat from start to finish. some of The Rock's Character from the WWF seems to have been put into the character of the Scorpion king which I think works very well, as they both are larger than life characters.If you really hate the WWF don't go and see the movie.If you like the WWF this film is a MUST SEE! The Rock and all the other actors have risen to the challenge and Chuck Russell has really outdone himself with this master piece, if you hear any bad reports trust me it's just some-one who doesn't like the WWF and has gone to see the film just to put it down.I'd give it a 9/10 because nothings perfect!  "},{"Title":"Far more fun than I expected","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Mummy was fun, the sequel was overblown. This is just plain silly, but hugely entertaining. Apparently the first cut, pre-reshoots, was about 70 minutes long. The finished product runs at about an hour and a half, with little plot. The lean pace ensures constant, surprisingly brutal (if bloodless) action and enough chuckles to see you through a large popcorn. The Rock is far better than you'd think, Michael Clarke Duncan is slumming it but clearly having fun, the effects are rather dodgy but who cares? Easily forgotten, but worth a look if you're not expecting high art. "},{"Title":"Mummy 3?","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  We're in spin off territory here, people. Hales, co-responsible for bringing us the averagely titled Attack Of The Clones, has joined utility Director Chuck Russell to create a franchise movie. Sommers was wise to give this up. In The Mummy Returns, we reinvented the original story line whilst introducing The Scorpion King himself, wrestler The Rock, seemed to scream out 'Warning! Warning! Spin Off Right Ahead!'. The Scorpion King just seemed to wane on what could have been a much better script but was included so that there could be a link between the two. Russell, better known for his best work to date, The Mask, just seems to lack something here. Some people will view this movie as an action/adventure which stands on its own, but those people clearly havent seen the hole which the Hollywood Machine has dug itself into. Although he has movies which were A-Grade wannabes, such as The Blob (just a teen movie) and The Eraser, Russell could do much better if given the right script. Save yourself and hollywood by avoiding this. Teach everyone a lesson. "},{"Title":"Just Awesome","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dwayne Johnson (AKA The Rock) played a wonderful role as Mathayus in this film. I really enjoyed his character.To me, this film is outstanding! I can enjoy this movie as a stand alone film (away from The Mummy movie series). The story/script is good and well acted out by all of the actors. The sets and costumes are awesome - really took me back to the time of the Akkadian Empire. Action, action and lots of fun action in this adventurous film.The Scorpion King would make a great double feature with a movie like Conan the Barbarian  or The Beastmaster.9/10 "},{"Title":"TSK A Mildly Amusing Romp...But No People's Eyebrow","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The way I see it, there are two ways to look at The Scorpion King as a guy's guy, in which case TSK is the best movie ever made in the history of cinema, or as a critically thinking, intellectual male, in which case TSK is a somewhat amusing, 90-minute exercise in historical inaccuracy. Either way, I think the world would be an infinitely better place with Kelly Hu running about in skimpy outfits whilst pretending to be important. But&#x85;that could just be the (highly uninformed) opinion of my penis. Mr. Penis tends to cloud my judgment sometimes and here, he almost succeeded in convincing me that The Scorpion King is a good movie. But, all he really convinced me of was that I like Kelly Hu. A lot.There really isn't much story in The Scorpion King &#x97; a spin-off of The Mummy movies &#x97; but what little story there is focuses on Mathayus (The Rock, in his first starring role), the last of the Akkadians, and his quest to capture the precognitive sorceress (the aforementioned Hu) of the despotic king, Memnon (Steven Brand). There is also some nonsense about a band of free rebels, led by Balthazar (Michael Clarke Duncan) but, at the end of the day, all this flick needs is The Rock kicking much ass. And he does that. Quite well, actually.The Scorpion King was originally in theaters in 2002, but was just released on Blu-ray this recently. Both visually and aurally, this disc shines. It both looks and sounds great in the high-def format. It's in the extras department where this disc is lacking. There are interactive, documentary featurettes that you can access at various points in the film, but I always find these distracting and they don't really offer any great insights into the filmmaking process. I mean, who really wants to hear The Rock waxing rhapsodically about the desert locations where the film was shot? I know I don't. All I want to see is the goddamn People's Eyebrow, which is noticeably absent from this entire production.There is also a commentary track from director Chuck Russell, which is informative on a certain level but you won't be missing much if you decide to it skip entirely. And that's it for special features on this disc.All in all, if you're a fan of The Rock, the WWE, and big, dumb action movies then, by all means, this is the disc for you. Crank it up and let the Godsmack tunage blow you through the back wall of your goddamn living room. Otherwise, save your money and wait for the Blu-ray release of the infinitely more satisfying (on many, many levels&#x85;) Dark City. "}{"Title":"So Bad......It's Good!","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Scorpion King, a prequel to the hit Mummy movies, is a really bad film with cheesy special effects, cringe-worthy dialog, and some lame acting. But I find it so bad, that it's actually a good, entertaining B film. It has some non-stop action and some of the action scenes were actually executed well. My only problem is I expected this film to tie in with 2001's The Mummy Returns and we will get to see how The Scorpion King turns into a villain, but alas it does not.Chuck Russell's film is about the origins of the Scorpion King who we met in The Mummy Returns. He is an Akkadian and a hero. He goes on a mission to kidnap a sorceress who is helping an evil king with all his conquests in order to stop his tyranny.The acting ranges from lame to decent. This is one of the earliest roles for Dwayne Johnson and he is pretty bad here. But thankfully, he improves vastly in later films. Bernard Hill was actually pretty good and Grant Heslov supplies some comic relief. However, I thought Steven Brand who played the evil king was ridiculously bad, way worse than The Rock.Overall, this is a fun movie that doesn't take itself too seriously. The movie seemed to know that it is bad and embraced it. I liked the action scenes and that one scene that involves red fire ants. I'm quite disappointed we didn't get to see how this movie ties in with the Mummy series. This is a good, summer blockbuster that does not require a thinking audience. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Take a whiff of what The Rock is cooking!","Date":"19 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Do you smell what The Rock is cooking? Yes, it is most likely bronzer and a hint of cocoa butter. Well, I smell what The Rock is cooking and let me tell you, it is a fragrant whiff of awesome! Here is the recipe for success when it comes to a movie like this one suave wrestler - whose physique and facial expressions trump any acting ability that some elitist film snob would expect of him; a handful of extravagant fight scenes accompanied by cartoonish sound effects; one sexy, barely dressed actress - just in case the testosterone-induced fight scenes aren't enough to attract the male demographic; and lets not forget the numerous one-liners left over from Brendan Fraser's Mummy dialogue. It's true that there is a shameless theft from Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom where The Rock escapes arrows by running behind a rolling gong. But then again, in Temple Indy was escaping machine gun fire. &#x96; SPOILER ALERT - The movie ends quite abruptly and I felt deprived of a climactic battle between the rebels and the army of the awkwardly Anglo fascist villain. There are those who would make a silly fuss over the historical accuracy of The Scorpion King. As is common knowledge, the actual Scorpion King was a skinny Jewish guy. To those people, I would say, if you want historical accuracy, go watch Xena Warrior Princess. This is about The Rock, people! Watch that signature eyebrow raise a near inch in the air and don't fight the oncoming orgasm. "},{"Title":"Great Mummy Prequel!","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Scorpion King is a prequel to both of The Mummy films and stars The Rock(Dwayne Johnson)in the title role.I don't think this film measures up to either of the two Mummy films,but it's still pretty good. The fight scenes are quite good,there is some humor,tons of action and good acting.The Rock actually impressed me with his acting ability.he showed a lot of potential in this film and didn't stink up the theater,as i thought he would.This movie doesn't have a lot to do with the previous entries.the story is quite a bit different.there is a lot more mysticism and romance and none of the main characters from the first two have returned for this movie.this is really The Rock's movie,and he has to carry it.he does a pretty good job for his first big starring feature.though not as good as the two Mummy films,tit still rates high in my book.for me,The Scorpion Kingis a solid 9/10 "},{"Title":"OVerall good!","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What has kept the vicious tyrant as the absolute conqueror of the land is the fact that he has a visionary sorceress by his side who knows when he should attack his enemies&#x85; Mathayus finds out that she's a sexy gorgeous woman who looks amazingly beautiful (Surely the audience is teased ceaselessly by her cleavage-revealing&#x85;). So Mathayus forgets his commission to kill her, and a kind of romance begins to flourish between the two as he tries to carry out his assignment&#x85; Kelly Hu plays Cassandra, the female sorcerer who had beauty, charisma, cleverness, and enigma&#x85; In the beginning of the film, we're not quite sure where she stands&#x85; But when she first sees Mathayus, she's interested in the well-mannered warrior who's strong, brave, loyal and sincere&#x85; She realizes that he might me the future king who can save her from her power-mad jailer&#x85; As the ruthless conqueror, Memnon (Steven Brand) has got all of the skills needed to attain global domination&#x85; He has also got the force and the will to accomplish it&#x85; The combination was pretty scary&#x85; Michael Clarke Duncan plays the fearsome Balthazar, the Nubian King, the strong ally of Mathayus&#x85; "},{"Title":"Boring and Dumb.","Date":"15 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" What's up with the musclebound guys with arms as big as legs and blubbery, sweaty torsos with man-boobs? They appear to keep sucking in their guts. Then, the Rock acts by clenching his teeth all the time. It looks as though he eats at the Hometown Buffet twice a day. The plot was predictable. The villains rival any Tarzan movie for credibility. All the action sequences are incredibly phony and lack any suspense. In one scene, the arch-villain just stands there, 50 yards away from The Rock, posing with two swords. He looks on while the Scorpion King draws his bow and arrow in slow motion, takes careful aim, and shoots him in the chest, killing him. Why didn't he move? Why did he allow the Scorpion King to kill him? Answer this movie is very dumb. Another scene even tops this one for stupidity. Two warriors shoot their arrows at the Scorpion King from 30 feet away. Both arrows are embedded in the Scorpion King's shield. Then, the Scorpion King pulls the arrows out of his shield and throws it at them; each arrow hitting a bad guy in the chest and killing him. This is not only dumb; it is frighteningly dumb. Avoid this garbage at all costs. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Some movies start off strong and fizzle. This one starts off mediocre and gets better. It starts off as a more or less stock barbarian flick but the action and characterization get progressively better. The Rock has the looks and dry wit of a good action hero. Kelly Hu, as the sorceress, can cast spells for me anytime. Steven Brand is someone I'd prefer to cast as a hero, but his villain is a first class opponent. He's superbly skilled as a warrior and doesn't have a cowardly bone in his body. Unlike some villains who hide behind their henchmen, Brand, as King Memnon, is in the thick of the fight. The growing respect Hu and the Rock have for each other moves the middle section along, and the climax is a fast paced palace infiltration and battle sequence. So The Rock kills Memnon, gets the girl, and ends up as king of Gomorrah. Hope he has good fire insurance. Citizen Kane it ain't, but there are far worse ways to spend an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"One for the kiddies","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" SK is very loosely connected to THE MUMMY, which frankly doesn't matter one way or the other. The Rock, a former wrestler, stars in this low-budget sword & sorcery novelty about a Conan-type warrior fighting evil forces on his way to becoming the once and future king. The Rock is not really an actor, and it shows. The role might have been better placed in the hands of someone like Vin Diesel. To make matters worse, the action is klunkily handled and the plot and dialog are threadbare. I suspect this movie will hold some appeal to the younger ones. If nothing else, it helps pass time on a slow afternoon. When you see director Chuck Russell's name on a film, beware. He is strictly hit or miss. This one is sort of a miss, certainly where adults are concerned. "},{"Title":"Rivers of blood will never bring peace.","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Here we go again with The Rock. As Mathayus &#150; a highly skilled assassin on a quest for vengeance against evil tyrant Memnon (Steven Brand) &#150; he sort of looks like he does in the ring. But he whips ass with flair and exhibits a mercury-quick wit. A few love scenes, but mostly smack downs.The Rock has proved his ability to do a fairly good job. Witness his performance in The Rundown. And, this is campy fun.The Scorpion King is aimed at anybody who likes their adventure uncomplicated and their battles by the barrel-load.And, there is Kelly Hu (X-2, Cradle to the Grave), and Sherri Howard. "},{"Title":"Movie of the Decade","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie moved me in a way that can only be expressed in collaborative dance with a native Arcadian. Beginning, middle, end. Each section of this film grabbed me and never let me go. E. Honda and Michael Clarke Duncan complete the cast of pure genius storytelling. The Rock? Need I say more? Wait, yes I must. This film should have caused a shift in Hollywood. From this point on, no film can ever grace the number one slot...because this film has NAILED itself to that golden throne. Grats The Rock. And thank you for defying the laws of physics many MANY times. Arcadian Rock Music is also required in epic storytelling. Thank you sir. Thank you. "},{"Title":"not quite up to the standard of The Mummy films,but still rates pretty high","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" this film is a prequel to both of The Mummyfilms stars The Rock(Dwayne Johnson)in the title role.i don't think this film measures up to either of the two Muumy films,but it's still pretty good.the fight scenes are quite good,there is some humour,tons of action and good acting.The Rock actually impressed me with his acting ability.he showed a lot of potential in this film and didn't stink up the theatre,as i thought he would.this movie doesn't have a lot to do with the previous entries.the story is quite a bit different.there is a lot more mysticism and romance and none of the main characters from the first two have returned for this movie.this is really The Rock's movie,and he has to carry it.he does a pretty good job for his first big starring feature.though not as good as the two Mummy films,tit still rates high in my book.for me,The Scorpion Kingis a solid 8/10 "}{"Title":"Recommended to real The Rock fans","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" With Scorpion King, we go back 5000 years ago. We meet Matayus(The Rock), one of the last person of his race which is known for their excellent assassin skills. The film is about Matayus and other tribes' coming together to fight against evil ruler Memmon who is cruel all tribes on his way and put them under his slavery. Next, we see Matayus and his friends sneaking into the notorious city of Gomorrah and meet a beautiful woman called Cassandra. Their try to lure Memmon out of the Gomorrah fails. Matayus and his friends will have to go back and fight with the devil again.We see Scorpion King as the main and the good character although he was not as nice as in Mummy Returns. Acting in the film is not the best thing and well you shouldn't expect anything above average really. He was good in fight scenes as he is a WWF pro wrestler. That is how he is considered to get people into the movie theaters.Well, it is not a good film. Sometimes, I felt like I was watching a TV programme like Hercules or Xena. There wasn't much special effects either to save the movie from going down. I could only recommend this film to the real The Rock fans. * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Great idea for a fun movie but the magic doesn't happen","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I enjoyed the Mummy films they were just feel good throw away fun. So I was quite looking forward to another instalment and was hopeful that the Rock could carry off a transition from wrestling ring to movie screen smoothly. Unfortunately what happened is an insipid script, some dire acting and third rate special effects which leave the audience cold. The fun is just not here and it's a real shame it just didn't happen. On the plus side Kelly Hu looks amazing but thats about all that can be recommended from this.Although one funny thing is people on message boards pointing out historical accuracies in this and the mummy films, gee because I thought they were real! Better luck next time guys if Mummy 3 ever happens it better be better than this! 4/10 "},{"Title":"Just misses","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has a lot going for it. Terrific special effects, wonderful cinematography, a decent plot and a wonderful score.Unfortunately, it also has a poor script. Oh, and who told The Rock he could act? The man was stiff and unbelievable as the scorpion king. This was supposed to be a prequel to The Mummy, but it lacks the charm of the mummy. I never became involved with the characters so I didn't care what happened to them. The battle scenes were OK, but a bit confusing...who's fighting whom? This is a good example of a decent movie gone bad. I would stick with the first two movies in this series and leave this one alone. "},{"Title":"A decent action-movie/adventure flick. What else did you expect?","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I think nobody expected this movie to be a masterpiece but people did expected this movie to be an entertaining action-flick, on par with the two The Mummy movies, of which this movie is a direct spin-off. The movie does not disappoint in its action, which makes The Scorpion King a far from great but still a certainly watchable movie.The Rock is no actor but he is a great action-hero star. Despite his flawed acting he is believable and likable in his role. The movie has a solid supporting cast. Steven Brand is a great villain actor and I expect more good villainous roles from him in the future. Michael Clarke Duncan is a welcome addition, even though the movie could had done without his character. It further more has well known actors Kelly Hu and Bernard Hill appearing in this movie.This is the sort of movie which I imaging would have been great for stunt performers to work on. The movie is action packed and filled with some nicely choreographed fighting sequences and other fine action sequences, including big explosions and all sorts of weapons. The action movie fan will not be disappointed with this movie and there is plenty for him or her to enjoy in this movie.Of course the story is almost non-existent but honestly what else did you expect? The story isn't really anything new and it rips off multiple movies without shame. The movie is not filled with any surprises but anyone who had expected a tight waterproof, original plot are apparently also not familiar with the two The Mummy movies, which also were far from perfect or original when it comes to the plot and story.Unfortunately director Chuck Russell isn't the most talented guy in the business, you can tell that by looking at this movie. His style feels inexperienced, even though he already had quite some experience as a director while shooting this movie.At what it tries to achieve, the movie is successful. It brings some good mindless, action-packed entertainment.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Rock in this","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This here is another worthy classic to add to your collection.In an ancient time, predating the pyramids, the evil king Memnon is using the psychic powers of his sorceress Cassandra to for tell his great victories. In a last ditch effort to stop Memnon from taking over the world, the leaders of the remaining free tribes hire the assassin Mathayus to kill the sorceress. But Mathayus ends up getting much more than he bargained for. Now with the help of the trickster Arpid, tribal leader Balthazar and an unexpected ally, it's up to Mathayus to fulfill his destiny and become the great Scorpion King.This movie stars The Rock (Wrestler). And might I add he makes a wonderous Scorpion King. Might as well call him a king in the first place. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is, by far, one of the most amusing movies I've ever seen. The first time I saw it, and the first time I saw The Rock, I only watched the final fight. When he had thrown The Bad Guy in the ocean of flames (where, 3 minutes later, people are standing??), saved the girl (who was a prisoner whom he saved) and rescued the people, he is standing in front of the full moon and the girl comes running to his side. As he breathes in to lift his sword I started roaring. My brother, who was watching, gave me a queer glance. I said 'Oh come on! It's just like in the lion king when Simba is to become king and walks up the cliff and roar!'. That is my conclusion on this movie. But don't misunderstand me, I love it. It's perfect to watch when you need a little cheering up. Makes you laugh better than Eddie Murphy, promise you that. "},{"Title":"Mildly enjoyable","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I enjoyed The Mummy and it's sequel, The Mummy Returns, so I was quite hopeful when I popped this movie into my DVD player and dimmed the lights.The plot line was everything I expected it to be including a muscle bound hero, damsels in distress, camels, sand storms and a funny little Arab man sidekick who is a rogue with a heart of gold.Just think the Mummy mixed with Stargate and a hint of Indiana Jones. On paper, I was expecting a great night in, but it didn't quite work out that way.The sets and special effects are all reasonable (but not great) and the acting is passable for a movie of this type. The plot line is the usual fare - good vs evil with sword fights galore.The problem lies in the script and the ineffective characterisation. There was just no reason to feel for the characters and not once did I care what happened to anyone in the movie. Despite repeated attempts to create high drama, it all felt a bit pedestrian and lifeless.Still, I can recommend this movie if you particularly like the genre and fancy something light, but don't expect to be exhilarated, just mildly entertained. "},{"Title":"There was only one Conan...","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After the success of The Mummy and The Mummy Returns, someone thought it was a good idea making the movie of the bad guy, the Scorpion King. That implied taking THe Rock into his own movie. Could things be worse? Mathayus is the one of the last 3 Acadians, and is paid to kill the sorceress of the ruler, who allegedly is the key to his victories. Turns out he ends up being the sole survivor, and sent away, double-crossed by the son of his employer. And he returns for vengeance.The movie is similar to Conan. It is not Ator luckily. the Rock is awful at acting (just like the Governator was) but unlike Arnold, he does sound like a civilized person. The sorceress is played by Kelly HU (X2 - Martial Law - Cradle 2 the grave) who is HHHHOOOOTTTT!. The rest of the cast is irrelevant. Michael Clarke Duncan (Green Mile), Peter Facinelli (Fastlane) and the sumo who played Honda in Street Fighter.Watch it to waste time. Other than that, skip it.4/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely entertaining flick that's action packed WARNING!!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Extremely entertaining flick that's action packed and well made with a lot of cool stunts and a marvelous performance by Dwayne Johnson (The Rock) (more on that later). The Script isn't all that bad and is very well directed as well. I was expecting a decent action flick and nothing more although what i got was a brisk extremely entertaining action packed flick that i enjoyed a LOT mainly due to the 2 leads performances and all the action. Not That much gore but LOTS of graphic violence we get plenty of arrow's in people's back shoulders and more but most of them are non bloody yet very graphic we also get a guy impaled (after the fact) still ya see a little bit of blood lots of sword action but bloodless and more non bloody stuff. The Acting is AWESOME!! The Rock (Dwayne Johnson) Is AMAZING here and he is the future of action movies in my opinion he is HILARIOUS and has the charisma looks to be an action start he is awesome here and it's always cool to see him kick that butt. YOU RULE Dwayne!. Kelly Hu is GORGEOUS! and does VERY well here and also knows how to kick that butt. she had great chemistry with The Rock. Grant Heslov is funny at times and non funny at others still i liked him overall as The Rock's Side kick. Steven Brand is okay if bland as the villain he's bearable but not that threatening. Michael Clarke Duncan does what he has to do well. Peter Facinelli does so so here and does not seem to be too thrilled in being in this film. Overall a must see! for Action/Fantasy Fans highly highly recommended! **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"If you think Arnold & Stalone can't act check out the Rock!","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I tried, really really tried from commenting on this abomination.The movie was bad in so many ways.I've seen better acting from a class of 1st graders in a Xmas play.Why is it that movies taking place in the future have the actors speaking like Indians in western movies?When yellow fire ball is no more, my people ride! Yet if the movie takes place in an ancient civilization the actors speak the king's English. Our survival depends on this place being kept secretquoting Michael Clark Duncan The first man who touches her will have to come through me quoting The Rock Also it had so many unrealistic moments that could have been done better with all the technology and CG out now.The Rock shoots an arrow with a rope attached from his camel all the way across the enemy's camp.I've seen clothesline strung tighter,you can even see it dangling from the camel yet the bulked up Rock slides in on it-truly funny.Oh and the all-seeing-all-knowing sorceress didn't even know a string was attached to her leg when she tried to run off-funnier.I'm not going to say anything about how she was abducted by the rock naked except for a piece of material yet when she went back to the bad guy's stronghold she was wearing the elaborate but skimpy costume she had on at the beginning of the movie-hilarious.Oh I forgot when the Rock slid into camp he has a sword fight that had so much clanging of the blades it should have awakened a mummy but none of the hordes of soldiers that could have killed him in one second heard it saving all of us precious time better spent contemplating world peace-funniest.Did I say when Michael Clark Duncan and the Rock were brawling I expected any minute that a wrestling ring would appear and a WW Smackdown banner would drop down?My final dig is about the Rock escaping the camp with his hostage and again hordes, well maybe 1 horde of soldiers riding horses chase after him.However my man Rock is beboping along on a camel! Come on a barely moving c-a-m-e-l.If you ever want to watch an unintentionally funny movie this is it.10/10 for that,3/10 for a real rating cuz it was a hoot but this movie is worth about a dollar in the bargain bin.  "}{"Title":"robbed of movie of the year","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  not only should this movie be movie of the year but the rock should have won the best actor.  action packed and a dvd that one must own.  i would even go as far to say, if you dont own the dvd, you dont know art.  the scorpion king is a modern day picasso of movies and should be watched before judged. you can see the acting roots of the rock from his many years of wrestling shine, although wrestling is not fake.  i also cannot forget the supporting cast.  what a mastermind of a casting job yet it was ignored by the academy. so i am making this tribute and a nomination that the rock is actor of the year and the scorpion king is movie of the year... no movie of the decade... no movie of the milleneum hands down. "},{"Title":"Bad remake of Arnolds Barbarian","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Similar in many ways. Worse in every way.Rock (a US WWF wrestler) runs around and kills a bunch of people. Of course there is a girl involved, a sorceress (thai style). His mission was to kill her but they fell for each other (hm...) so instead they ended up working together. The new mission is to kill a really good swordsman who wants to rule the world.They did'nt forget the small funny guy (there must be a small funny guy). But I won't go in to that.Yeah, the remake part ... see Barbarian instead. Much better!!! --- Zacharias Bonnevier  "},{"Title":"Better than expected action film","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I totally expected to either hate this film or just roll my eyes at the ineptitude. But to my surprise it turned out to be fairly adequate as an action film. The story supposedly takes place either hundreds or thousands of years before The Mummy and The Rock plays Mathayus who is an Arkadian, part of a band of assassins who have been sent by their king (Roger Rees) to kill the enemies sorceress. They infiltrate the camp of their enemy which is ruled by Memnon (Steven Band), a sadistic ruler who has a sorceress named Cassandra (Kelly Hu). Cassandra has the ability of second sight and Memnon uses her to aid his army in winning battles. Mathayus and his group fail in their attempt and Memnon kills Mathayus's brother Jesup (Branscombe Richmond) and then takes Mathayus and buries him in sand up to his neck for the red fire ants. With the help of a horse thief named Arpid (Grant Heslov) they both escape and head to the city where Cassandra is held. Mathayus manages to get her but instead of killing her he takes her with him back to his Arkadian camp. When he gets back he convinces everyone that Memnon will come to kill them if they don't prepare to fight. Cassandra has a vision that everyone will be killed so they decide to go to where Memnon is and kill him first. This film is directed by Chuck Russell and he is greatly responsible for this being a decent action film. Russell also directed The Mask and Eraser so he does know what he's doing. The script makes a point of not taking itself seriously and there are some funny lines like Arpid uttering We cannot go to the Valley of Death, thats why its called Valley of Death. The Rock is a capable action star but I did have a problem whenever he spoke. He either would mumble or speak very well. To well! Hu is jaw dropping beautiful and casting agents should look no further when they make the next James Bond film. She's perfect! The strategically placed hair over her breasts look like they were glued on. I'm not really recommending this film but I am saying that I didn't dislike it. As far as Saturday afternoon matinees go, this is just as good or just as bad as the rest. Besides the predictable story I was not impressed by the computer animated special effects like the cobras and the ants. But if your a fan of these silly films or just looking for an easy viewing pleasure than this might be for you.  "},{"Title":"Like the Schwarzenegger Conan movies but Better.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie a LOT more than I thought I would.It reminded me a lot of the Arnold Schwarzenegger Conan movies, but Dwayne Johnson is a better actor and, unlike most Schwarzenegger movies, the supporting cast actually get to make important contributions.Now, I am a bit curious as to how the Scorpion King went from being the hero in his own movie to being a legendary villain and monster in The Mummy Returns.  But, to quote the Conan films, I guess that is another story. "},{"Title":"Ordinary story..","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King has the characteristics of an action movie but the story is too far behind. The actors and actresses in the movie seem have bad acting and the story doesn't even reflect the title. The Scorpion King, where is the Scorpion.. The only creatures that we can see such as ants, camel and some birds.The story also kind of bored and most of the time is dark(at night) and hardly we can see any beautiful scenery,not like the sequel and prequel such as the Mummy where the ancient life come alive. "},{"Title":"You make your own destiny.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Get your mind off the real world and delve into action packed fantasy. Dwayne(The Rock)Johnson is a warrior chosen assassin exhausting his efforts to trounce an evil conqueror(Steven Brand). The intense action takes your mind off of the hackneyed plot. Choose up sides and let the slaughter begin. Also in the cast are Kelly Hu, Michael Clarke Duncan and Grant Helsov. "},{"Title":"A spin-off of a sequel to a remake.  Yeah, it's not very good.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****If you're a big fan of The Rock, you'll probably like The Scorpion King. If you're twelve years old or younger, you'll also probably like this movie. Why's that?  Because those undiscriminating, undemanding viewers will likely enjoy the sight of their favorite wrestler brandishing a huge sword and whooping all sorts of ass with it.  From beginning to end, The Scorpion King is just one swordfight after another, so things like plot and character development are entirely secondary.The Rock (aka Dwayne Johnson) stars as Mathayus, an Akkadian who has been hired to kill the evil king's (Steven Brand) sorcerer.  When Mathayus' brother is killed by the king, Memnon, he vows revenge but finds himself unwilling to slay the sorcerer, who happens to be a gorgeous Asian woman (Kelly Hu) named Cassandra.  Holding her captive, he escapes into the desert with her, where he musters up the courage to lead a revolt against Memnon.Without the end credits, The Scorpion King runs about eighty-four minutes, and close to half of that running time is devoted to the movie's countless swordfights.  While I understand the film's intent to work only as escapist entertainment, these sword clashes are perfunctory, like something out of your average episode of Xena or Hercules.  Watching one fight after another grows tiresome, and without anything in the way of creativity or originality in the action sequences, it's not long before The Scorpion King starts to bore you.There are a lot of other problems, too, such as the ludicrous costumes, the unimaginative sets, the weak villains, and the annoyingly unfunny comic relief, played by the always annoying Grant Heslov, who's usually on-hand to play these kinds of characters.  As for The Rock himself, he's at least as poor an actor as Schwarzennegger, and while he has charisma, he lacks that other muscle-bound star's catchy accent.  Of the five actors who've had breakout action roles the past year (the others being Jason Statham, Christian Bale, Matt Damon, and Vin Diesel), The Rock is the weakest.The Scorpion King is a spin-off of The Mummy franchise, of which the original I highly enjoyed.  In the sequel, it was clear The Rock's character was a ferocious and evil warrior, so whether or not this Mathayus is supposed to be the same guy is questionable.  But if it is the same person, it would be interesting if later sequels (which are inevitable) would take this new franchise down a darker path (read R-rated).As it is, this movie is rather tame in the violence department. Stabbings and slashes result in little to no blood and there's no nudity, at least nothing we can clearly see, which is a shame, because I, like a lot of other guys I'm sure, would definitely like to see the stunning Kelly Hu in the buff.  In the sequels, perhaps?  One can only hope.   "},{"Title":"Nice Guys do finish first","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Rock makes his big screen debut movie. His acting (scenes where he has to speak script lines) is a bit stiff (not as stiff as Chris Rock's performance in Down to Earth!). But the number of quiet moments in the movie is (thankfully) limited and so this does not get in the way of a decent movie.It reminds me of a Burt Lancaster/swashbuckler type movie. The hero, a tough, street-wise, not-too-dumb, not-too-smart, nice guy always wins the day, gets the girl, and conquers all. If you like the lead actor (The Rock) then you should really like this movie.There are also a few moments of modern/topical humor which were cause for a good chuckle and did not interfere in the movie. 7/10.- Zafoid "},{"Title":"The Four Musts","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The four things movies MUST have to be a good film are strong heros, half-naked women, action and fun (see Rudolph Valentino as The Sheik, Maureen O'Sullivan as The Jane, Sean Connery as The Bond, and Harrison Ford as The Indy for references.)  The Scorpion King has all four.  The Rock (both the actor and the character he plays) is a strong hero.  The women are beautiful and forced by their director to wear as little as possible (thank God some things in Hollywood don't change).  The action is non-stop and the dialogue is fun.  'Nuf said, end of review.   "},{"Title":"Horrible...","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only good thing I can say about this movie is that there are a few 'cool' parts of fighting.  The part in the cave during the sand storm is pretty clever and the draining water part as well.. other than that this movie stinks.  Does not do any justice for The Mummy or The Mummy Returns. I gave this movie a 5 because it's horrible.  It's unrealistic and there is rock music playing along to the battle scenes for God's sake.  I mean come on now... just because he IS the Rock doesn't mean you have to make this movie as trashy as you would some WWF Wrestling movie.  I say BOOOO to this movie.. it had potential, but it just stunk.ASR "}{"Title":"Do you smell what Hollywood is cooking?","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In this prequel to 1999&#145;s The Mummy, paid assassin Mathayus (The Rock), the Scorpion King, battles against the evil Memnon (Stephen Brand), who, with the help of sorceress Cassandra (Kelly Hu), has destroyed almost all of the tribes within the country. Mathayus&#145;s aides include the warrior Balthazar (Michael Clarke Duncan) a professor (Bernard Hill) and a comedic sidekick (Grant Heslov).This film may not be all that motivated, and it certainly lacks originality, but it does provide 90 minutes of decent entertainment. Director Chuck Russell and producer/co&#150;writer Stephen Sommers (who was at the helm of both The Mummy and The Mummy Returns) adopt the same approach as that of the Mummy films; take a seemingly serious adventure film and laugh it up. This approach worked for both of those films, and it works again here. The storyline is occasionally unclear, the prologue is rushed, the ending is predictable and the dialogue is sometimes cringe&#150;worthy. Yet the actors subtly behave as if they know this is the case, and this works to the film&#145;s advantage.I&#145;m happy to point out that you don&#145;t need to have seen either of the Mummy films to appreciate this. While many things will be familiar to Mummy fans (notably the all&#150;too&#150;obvious computer generated effects and the presence of The Rock), this is a completely different kind of adventure. Like both the Mummy films, it provides several well&#150;executed action scenes, beautiful women and a self&#150;mocking tone. However, this film also has a loud rock soundtrack (One of its best parts). These kinds of elements will almost certainly pull in the crowds, and they are used for pretty good effect.So how does The Rock stand up as an action hero? Well, I can say that he shows promise. While lacking the more deadpan approach of Brendan Fraser, he seems to enjoy himself when playing his role for laughs while simultaneously excelling in the fight scenes. Of course, he is lackluster in the dramatic scenes, but these are kept to a minimum. Stephen Brand is disappointing &#150; for a villain, he just isn&#145;t menacing enough. Kelly Hu, however, really is one to watch out for in the future. She&#145;s beautiful, likeable, and charismatic, and wholeheartedly joins in the film&#145;s comic tone (it seems that she says some of the film&#145;s more serious lines mockingly). Grant Heslov provides some funny moments, but most of the time it&#145;s so obvious that he&#145;s overdoing it that he becomes annoying. Michael Clarke Duncan makes Balthazar an imposing figure, and Bernard Hill has fun in his small role as the professor.It&#145;s become easy for many to dislike the Mummy films because of their reputation as money&#150;making machines. Yet at the same time, you can&#145;t deny that they are perfect as light&#150;hearted, brainless fun, and The Scorpion King is no exception.  "},{"Title":"It is a nice and touching film.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Among the films i find this film is full of love, hatred and sadness. This three feelings bring out the life in the movie. It shows that there were still people who are brave to try something that can make them lost their lifes. After the death of the two brothers, Mathayus is full of hatred that nearly drive him crazy and when he saw Cassandra he had fallen in love with her. There is too much to say and in anyway this is a lovely film. "},{"Title":"Excellent action movie","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Rock could very easily be the next Arnold Schwarzenneger in action.  The Rock is really good and I enjoyed him onscreen.  Kelly Hu is really cool as the sexy Cassandra, and the last time I saw her was getting strangled by Jason.  It's a good change.  Steven Brand does really good as the evil villain and I enjoyed his presence.  Grant Heslov was good as the comic relief and he brought good comedy to action.  Michael Clarke Duncan was good as Balthazar and his fight with the Rock was cool.  Was it just me or was E.Honda a night guard at the last fight scene? (He was the one who thought Michael Clarke Duncan was a woman.)Overall the movie is really good action and I will immediately buy this on DVD.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good cheesy","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't take this movie too seriously.  The weak plot and silly dialogue are integral parts of movies like this.  Generally these weaknesses bother me too, but in watching this movie I didn't notice them, or if I did I just thought they added some humor.  This movie was funny.  I laughed the whole time, and I thoroughly enjoyed watching it.  I don't even know anything about the Rock, I don't like wrestling and I REALLY didn't like The Mummy. I'll definitely go see another movie with the Rock now, he's fun and not too pretentious.  If you like the Conan movies or the Hercules or Xena shows at all, then you'll probably like this, because it's pretty much a combination of them all.I admire a film that can be cheesy AND good. Star Wars did not accomplish this...The Scorpion King did. "},{"Title":"Good Action Movie","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While I was waiting in line for this movie, I did not expect a good movie at all. I expected a boring, sour-acting movie that just tries to boost the Rock's career. I was wrong.  This movie is a good, action-filled movie which delivers a lot more than I expected.  The Rock was very good in this movie portraying a tough, Arnold Schwarzenneger-like hero who is trying to stop a sorcerer, who ends up being VERY hot Kelly Hu.  They have a comedic sidekick played by Grant Heslov, and I do admit that he was funny.  The Rock has a tight sword-fight with Michael Clarke Duncan which entertained me very much. The villain in this movie is very cool.  Overall this movie has absolutely nothing to do with the Mummy itself, but rather a prequel to the Mummy Returns villain.  Rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A new star is born","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film´s got everything to become one of the greatest films ever! Romance, action, humor, drama, impressive special effects, fantastic fighting scenes and great actors who made a very good job! The Rock made a very good debut in his first leading part. He´s got the potential to become one of the greatest, not only in wrestling, but also in acting. Especially here in Germany, many people have huge prejudice if they hear things about e.g. the World Wrestling Federation (now Entertainment). You hear things like The superstars just have muscles, but no brain! So we had more than one bad critic about the film. The Rock was only good at the fighting scenes and so on. But that´s not the truth. The Rock made a fantastic job in every scene! I really love that film and will watch it at the cinema for a third time (and perhaps more often)! A real diamond in the world of film. "},{"Title":"Great action movie!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Really enjoyed seeing this one-even the 2nd time around. I think Branscombe Richmond should have gotten more publicity as the brother Jesup. His part was good even though it was short. Lots of humor here. A must have on video. "},{"Title":"The Rock puts on a great performance.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There has been a few people that say The Rock was not any good in this picture because he didn't have to say but one liners.  This movie was so action packed that words where not needed.  The movie starts out with action and ends that way.  If you are looking for a movie that is full of action and not much talking this is for you.  If you want a movie to take kids to, take them to see this one.   The Scorpion King is great for all ages. Maybe one of the best movies that I have seen all year.  It's funny, sad, and has action.  The Rock has nothing to do with why a lot of people are seeing this movie.  It's just a great movie. "},{"Title":"Now this is fun","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" WWF Superstar, The Rock, makes in an impressive action star debut in Chuck Russell's The Scorpion King. It a fun movie with a wafer thin plot, great bloodless action, and great looking people. Director Russell is also smart in that he keeps the movie to 90 minutes-- he does not trespass beyond where he is welcome. It is surprising that David Hayter wrote this screenplay. Hayter wrote X-Men which was an excellent comic book translation. Here it is comic book-like without the material. The plot, what little there is, has The Rock as Mathayas, the last member of an assassin clan, who is hired to kill the sorceress of the powerful warlord, Memnon (an evil and not very manly Steven Brand-- at least compared to The Rock which is a problem for a powerful villain.) Mathayas changes his mind when he sees that the supposedly evil sorceress is the beautiful Cassandra (played by the beautiful Kelly Hu). In the scene where we are introduced to Cassandra, she emerges from the bathing pool, her wet hair strategically falls over her breasts. Gravity and water do NOT work like that! And as she and The Rock escape through the water tunnels, it becomes clear that Kelly Hu will not be naked in this movie. Oh well, Hu has some great skimpy outfits. She really does a good job as Cassandra who is the beautiful temptress for Mathayas-- she has a smart edge to herself. Does she really love him? Can she be trusted? The Rock is a natural movie star. He has screen presence, charisma, and a sense of humor. He is good-looking and does the action scenes well. He is versatile. He doesn't even use his finishing move, The Rock Bottom, in the movie. Though I was waiting for it. The Scorpion King is great fun for a hour and a half. Anyway, what are you going to watch until Spider-Man of Episode II come out? The Rock is someone to watch for in the future. That is What the Rock is cookin'. "},{"Title":"ALL THE FRESHNESS OF A XEROX OF A FAX OF A COPY OF A ...","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  THE SCORPION KING (2002) ** The Rock, Steven Brand, Kelly Hu, Bernard Hill, Grant Heslov, Peter Facinelli, Ralf Moeller, Michael Clark Duncan.  Prequel to a sequel of a remake (phew!) with WWF hulk The Rock as the titular warrior of the desert seas kicking ass with barely a pause of credibility nor rhyme nor reason in this static take-off of flicks like the `Conan'  series.  Special effect laden hi-jinks aside the film has a few moments of non-stop action to satisfy a popcorn audience. (Dir Chuck Russell) "}{"Title":"good way to pass the time","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In ancient times, a tyrannical king uses the psychic powers of his mysterious sorceress in order to be victorious in battle and maintain his authority. Refusing to relinquish his power or do anything for the greater good, the nation's people become angered and try to rebel against him. Mathayus is a skilled assassin and lone warrior with the courage to try and lead the people in a revolt against oppression. An adventure of epic proportions it certainly is not, but it's packed with exciting action scenes, silly humor, impressive set design, and an engaging performance by The Rock. Has the familiar formulaic shortcomings, but it's fun and has a hilarious supporting performance from sidekick Heslov. **½ "},{"Title":"Not a patch on Conan","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The following review contains some mild spoilers, but frankly there's not much to spoil since the whole plot is a rehash of movies you've seen before. If you can't describe all the main points of the plot BEFORE EVEN SEEING ONE SECOND OF FILM, we'd like to know if your Amish friends have any nice quilts to sell.With the lead actor coming from the WWF wrestling thing, I don't know what I should have expected really, but I went to see the Scorpion King anyway. I suppose basically I have a weakness for Conan - which fascinated me in my youth when I discovered the allusions to the life of Temujin Genghis Khan - and I was hoping to see some Conanesque swashbuckling. However apart from muscular men striking poses with swords in front of scantily clad women, this was no Conan.True, it throws more than one sop to Conan, with a plotline that is taken almost intact from the second half of Conan the Barbarian (and numerous similar movies through the ages); the formation of a remarkably similar party of adventurers; and Mathyas/Conan being wounded, left to die, and saved, in remarkably similar ways. But then, it also has plenty of sops for actual WWF fans. (Well, it even has a bit from Ulysses for those of a more classical bent.)However Conan, at least, was fairly free of glaring anachronisms, and those anachronisms it did have were subtle enough to offend only the eye of the scholar, and even then could be excused by the fact that Conan is (arguably, possibly) set in a fictitious world at an indefinite time.Not so Scorpion King. We know roughly where Scorpion King is set, and we know roughly when. In fact, the hero is explicitly stated to be an Akkadian 1 shortly after the fall of that empire (in 1950 BC), and much of the action is set in Gomorrah 2, which is presumably somewhere in the Levant and generally believed to have been destroyed somewhere around the same time. And the anachronisms are absolutely agonising even to one scratching to remember his high school history. Here we are in the Bronze Age, and we have steel. Not just a little bit of meteoric iron here and there, but practically every non-golden metal object is steel, and it's cheap enough to throw away. Swords are not only highly polished steel longswords, but a few are even straight bladed, cross-hilted crusader longswords, some three thousand years before their time. As if that's not enough we have telescopes some three thousand five hundred years before their time (and not just any telescope, but a variable power one), distilled spirits some three thousand two hundred years before distillation, crossbows around twenty nine centuries too early, chainmail similarly, a scientist (yes they use that word) busily inventing a Roman catapult only about seventeen centuries too early this time, and finally, God Forbid, gunpowder.Yes, we are in the ancient Near East, and we have gunpowder. I kid you not. But it's supposed to be ok because we got the recipe from China. Never mind that we are some four hundred years before the first traces of civilisation in China - yes, China is old, but it isn't old enough to make this story work. We also meet some Japanese sword masters giving lessons with a shinai, a mere thousand years before the first vestiges of civilisation reached Japan and once again roughly three thousand years before katana (and presumably shinai) were invented. Oh, and finally (well, finally from what I spotted without even trying) there is nary a chariot to be seen, because everyone (apart from Mathyas on his camel) gets about on horseback - complete with stirrups (and the wagons are drawn by horses, too!). That goes nicely with the crusader longswords, I suppose.However, it is by no means only the anachronisms that grate in this awful movie. The acting is straight out of the A-team, and it says something that the Rock's performance is actually one of the better ones. We are even treated to a bout of WWF style wrestling - the sort where men are only lightly stunned after being repeatedly struck over the head by objects hard enough to crack your skull. The characters, by and large, are poorly developed and unsympatheticThe thief character seems to have been added simply because Conan had a roguish sidekick. But Conan's sidekick was played for comic relief; Mathyas' sidekick is just stupid, getting one interesting scene where he rescues Mathyas from a grisly death, and then ever afterward doing absolutely nothing either for the plot or for laughs. Well, there's a couple of bits that perhaps were meant to be funny, but they are pretty damn weak. Like him standing at the bottom of a shaft as others thrown down bags of gunpowder. Two are thrown at once, knocking him down. One at a time, he whines. Guffaw. Chortle. Snigger. What a maroon.Memnon is meant to be the evil bad guy, and Mathyas is the hero. But the moral distinction between their characters is so slight it is difficult to see why we are supposed to see any difference between them. Indeed, it seems to me there are just two incidents, without which it would be just as easy to root for Memnon and think the climax was a tragedy. You see, Mathyas is a king who is conquering the quarrelling neighbouring tribes. This is supposed to be the black mark against his name, even though he believes he is ultimately creating a better world by suppressing the chaos and internecine strife that has plagued the land. Mathyas, on the other hand, is an assassin, a cold blooded killer who murders for money. He's the good guy, y'see? Now I actually got halfway through the movie repeatedly thinking Isn't 'the Rock' meant to be the good guy? before something occurred to (very mildly) differentiate their characters Mathyas misses a shot at his target to save a boy who helped him, and who is in trouble because of Mathyas, while Memnon casually kills a lieutenant who is undermining his authority. Oh, and Memnon also accepts the service of a patricide. That's about the limit of their moral distinction; otherwise they are both cruel men of violence, with Memnon's motivation arguably slightly nobler! Oh, and then there's the princess who wants to flee a life of luxury with Memnon to the wilderness, but why? At one point, Memnon says you think I'm cruel, don't you?, but no explanation is given for her holding this belief. Then she meets Mathyas, who is scarcely less cruel, and jumps in the sack with him.Next on the list of gripes are plot holes and non sequiturs. For example, at one point Mathyas is captured and many hours afterward escapes - and immediately, mere feet away, finds his camel with all his (numerous) weapons untouched and complete with a treasure he was to be paid for the assassination. Umm, how come the guards didn't take this stuff? Then there's the fighting prowess of the princess. We are given to understand that she has led a cosseted life, so it is no surprise when, with a dagger, she is barely able to nick Mathyas' arm. But only a few days later she is wielding a longsword nearly as long as herself, and effortlessly cutting down the elite personal bodyguard of the greatest swordsman on earth! When we require a deus-ex-machina to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat, we blow up the foundations of the palace (conveniently accessible from the street) with the scientist's gunpowder - creating a rolling Hollywood fireball which incinerates every bad guy in its path whilst missing good guys only twenty feet from ground zero, and happily causing Memnon to fall to his death. But the next day the palace is apparently undamaged! Then there's Mathyas' wound. SOMEWHAT STRONGER SPOILER He gets a high lung shot in the back with a broadhead arrow, and quite reasonably drops like a rock (the Rock?). He should be flopping about like a gutted fish, with two or three minutes till he dies. Even if someone in 2000 BC knows enough first aid to stop that lung collapsing, without access to a major surgical hospital and heaps of antibiotics, he will be dead in a day. But - and you KNOW there's a but! - after lying on the verge of death for a few seconds, he decides it isn't so bad after all, gets up, reaches behind his back to pull out the arrow (how the hell does that work!?), and proceeds to slay his foes, etc . The next day he's up bright and early, full of smiles. No explanation, no justification, no dunking in the River Styx, no oh, I don't have a lung on that side; born without it, and it's never bothered me!. Nope; he's just plain immortal. What a load of horse puckey. END SPOILERA couple of miscellaneous bits You're a king commanding vast armies, and your bride-to-be - who happens also to be instrumental in your military and political power - has just been abducted by a skilled assassin, and taken who knows where. How many guys would you send after her? Five hundred? Ten thousand? No, how about _twelve_?Scorpion venom just isn't that toxic. For an adult, it's very painful, but not life threatening. Some very large scorpions have occasionally killed a very small child, but even that's unusual.The Amazon warriors.  For no apparent reason or explanation we suddenly get a cartload of amazons who easily slaughter the elite bodyguard once again. Maybe their marketing people told them they'd be getting a few Xena fans along.The gunpowder seems to have been a deus-ex-machina to justify the good guys winning, since they were basically royally screwed (even if the king was dead, if you pardon the imagery), when the vastly superior opposition just surrenders and declares the outlaw bandit to be their king. Huh? Why?Footnotes ==========>1. Well, actually he's somewhat black - Samoan ISTR - which Akkadians weren't, but we can just gloss over that bit. And the bit about his brother being an Amerindian who bears him as much resemblance as chalk does to cheese. But then the Gomorran princess appears to be Chinese, so it seems to be the politically correct thing to totally disregard human phenotypes. 2. Although they do seem to flit around quite a bit with remarkable Jet Age speed, ranging from snow covered pine forests (Turkey?) to a desert much harsher than any in the Levant. (Since Mathyas rides an Arabian camel - unknown outside Arabia until the Romans started importing them for service in North Africa - and describes this desert as home, it is presumably Arabia. Odd that an Arabian should have been comfortable shirtless in the snow... Incidentally, this desert is named Death Valley, and it appears to me that it in fact actually _is_ Death Valley, Mojave Desert, California...) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Fun 7/10","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As much as I hate to admit it, I enjoyed The Scorpion King from start to finish.  The film is far from perfect.  It has a bland color tone; terrible comedic side-kick; and it rips off a lot from other movies.  Even noticing these errors, I couldn't help but smile.  The film knows it is nothing more than a cheesy barbarian film and it embraces that.  The film has more in common with such guilty-pleasure flicks as Army of Darkness, then it does with the over-done Mummy movies.  If you don't mind watching a barbarian movie, chances are you are going to have a fun time with this film.  A very entertaining fun surprise. "},{"Title":"What an awesome movie.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Before I get to the movie, I'd like to say that I'm not surprised about this movie being bashed by all of you wanna-be critics. Most of you believe in that stereotype that all wrestlers can't act, when that's what they do in the ring. Act. You all know you couldn't do any better if your lives depended on it. I bet more then half of you haven't even seen the damn movie yet, but rather heard it from your friends, or another source, and if you did, you hated this movie for stupid reasons. Oh, hey, it had nothing to do with The Mummy. It was never supposed to have anything to do with it. It is called a spin-off, not a prequel, to the Mummy series. Or maybe you think this movie sucks because its dialogue is too modern. Maybe so, but I'd rather not be stuck with a past dialogue like in the modern version of Romeo and Juliet, when I can't understand the damn thing.Now, to focus on the movie. I loved it. I loved the music, including the theme, I stand alone. I was very entertained by the action sequences, and watching the Rock/the Scorpion King, whoop ass as he does in the ring. (Now those of you reading this would probably say, But wrestling is fake. It's all scripted. First off, wrestling is not fake. It is not real, for damn sure. It is FIXED. Second, movies are scripted just as wrestling is.) I also loved the sorceress, Kelly Hu. I don't think she had a name in the movie... But she didn't really need one, since she was most of the time being used as a Sorceress anyway. Now, it was also predictable, I'll admit. But what ISN'T predictable these days? Not a lot of movies are not predictable. Besides, it's two big black guys (The Rock and MDC) fighting two scrawny white guys (Memnon, and the other dude...). Who would win anyway?I'll finish this off by saying I loved the movie, and I'd like to see the Rock continue to have a main role in more movies. I would definitely see a sequel if it would come out. This movie owns. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Not quite the 'king', but still good","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  ***Starring Dwayne The Rock Johnson, Kelly Hu, Grant Heslov and Michael Clark Duncan.A fighter, whose brother was recently killed, seeks revenge on his brother's killer.  He also finds a sorceress, whom he soon finds as a nice, little love interest.The movie is just a load of bloodless fight scenes.  But the humor and action sequences (along with the good end) makes this movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Do you smell what the Scorpion King is cooking?","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In a prequel/spin-off of the Mummy films. the Rock takes his Scorpion Kingcharacter from Mummy Returns and supplants him into his own adventurebattling a effeminate tyrant who is trying to take over all the desert lands with the help of an even more effeminate prince who betrays his father (the father being played by Bernard Hill, King Theoden of Lord of the Rings I think) and thesexy, sexually repressed sorceress Kelly Hu, whom the Scorpion Kingromances the clothes off of (not that she had much in the way of clothes to begin with).From here, the Rock would go on to do The Rundown and the remake ofWalking Tall. While he may not be an actor, the Rock has a surprising amount of warmth for a guy who got his start as a wrestler, and he is generally at his best when he's being funny. Also here the Rock clearly doesn't take himselfseriously, which is probably how he should play it if he wants to succeed Arnold as the big action hero of Hollywood.The film itself is a breeze to watch. One of the best bits includes the Rock's brawl with Michael Clark Duncan.And remember, one history's tyrant is another history's hero. "},{"Title":"Words cannot describe the stupendous awfulness of this worthless waste of existence.","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Let's get one thing clear right away The Scorpion King is one of the worst movies of all time and is degrading to existence. We get another warrior story about a desert warrior who rises up against the evil army that's destroying his homeland. He captures the enemy's key sorcerer, takes her deep into the desert and prepares for a final showdown. It doesn't help when The Rock plays the warrior. Giving a performance as if he's in a spoofy sketch on SNL, The Rock is terrible through and through. This is a film that fails at providing cheap entertainment as well. Not one sight or sound feels polarizing or engaging. Director Chuck Russell should have learned from Peter Jackson or Mel Gibson on how to make well-cut action sequences involving swords,arrows,and all those good weapons. The Scorpion King has this ginormous budget of $60 million and plays as if it had only $3 million to play with. Lousy action blends like peanut butter and jelly on a nice piece of warm toast with horrifying dialogue, terrible art direction and costumes, and supporting cast members who act like they feel disappointing themselves for working with such lousy filmmakers. This is a low for everyone apart of it and everyone who saw this degrading mess. At least The Rock changed his named to Dwayne Johnson and cut his pony tail. He probably was disturbed by the memories of making this trash. "},{"Title":"The Scorpion King is another fun addition to the Mummy Franchise...  Very entertaining, you can easily forgive the underdeveloped characters and cliché plot...","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Stephen Sommers Mummy franchise will always hold a special place in my memories of childhood. I saw his 1999 re-envisioning in theaters when I was 11-years-old, and it rocked my world. Since then, I have enjoyed every sequel (Even Tomb of the Dragon Emperor) and Spin-off (Even Rise of a Warrior.. although to a much lesser extent), and they have all become permanent fixtures in my DVD and Blu-Ray collection.The Scorpion King is a fun and fast spin-off of the franchise.Released in 2002, the film is directed by Chuck Russell (Nightmare on Elm Street 3, The Mask) from a script co-written by Stephen Sommers (writer/director of The Mummy, The Mummy Returns), William Osbourne (Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot!) and David Hayer (X-Men, X2), based on a story by Sommers and Johnathan Hale. It stars Dwayne Johnson (then The Rock), Steven Brand and the beautiful Kelly Hu. It also features great supporting performances by Michael Clarke Duncan, Grant Heslov and Bernard Hill.The film (which, according to Dwayne Johnson, takes place about 10 years before the events of The Mummy Returns) centers on the Akkadian assassin Mathyus (Johnson), whom we all know will later become the dreaded Scorpion King. He is one of the last of his kind in a world ruled by the vile villain Memnon (Brand), an evil dictator who uses the predictions of a sorcerer in his campaigns.He and his brother are hired to assassinate the sorcerer by Memnon's enemies. However, Mathyus soon discovers that the sorcerer is actually a stunning sorceress (Hu), and is captured by Memnon and forced to watch his brothers death. The sorceress (whom, unlike Memnon, is not truly evil) fools Memnon into sparing Mathyus' life, and he manages to escape with the help of a horse thief (Heslov).Mathyus decides to seek vengeance, and the movie gets moving- he kidnaps the sorceress Cassandra, joins forces with her, the horse thief, a magician/inventor named Philos (Hill), Balthazar- leader of Memnon's enemies (Michael Clarke Duncan) and a few others, as they plot to overthrow his evil. And of course, along the way, he falls in love with the sorceress, and must deal with tensions between himself and the other characters.The film is your basic sword-and-sorcery epic. The movie is clearly modeled after the big action set-pieces- Mathyus dueling Memnon's cronies during a sandstorm, Mathyus and Bathazar's giant rumble, a fantastic chase through the streets and buildings of Gomorrah... It's all magnificently shot and for the most part, cleverly written, and it's a lot of fun to watch.The horse thief Arpid is a source of comedic relief, and there is great banter between Mathyus and the other characters. They are all generally likable (although somewhat underdeveloped and cliché), and you do care about them. It's also interesting to see the Scorpion King, formerly a villain, now in a heroic role. It's interesting to ponder what might have happened to turn him into the violent tyrant we saw of him in Mummy Returns. All that being said, there are some flaws. The film has a 92 minute running length, and moves just a little too quickly, whereas the other Mummy movies were all 100+ minutes, and had a more natural pacing.In addition, mirroring 2001's Mummy Returns, there are issues with some of the visual effects. In that, a few of them look fake. Very fake. A sandstorm and CG snakes stand out as looking downright silly. But overall, the film is a nice departure from the previous films in that a majority of scenes are done for-real, with CGI generally only used to enhance the scenes.I also have issue with the underdeveloped villain Memnon- he's just a bad-guy, with no real motivation other than wanting to rule the world, whereas other series villains like Imhotep or Emperor Han at least had reasons and motivations. Memnon's just a kill 'em all! kinda guy.But overall, the film is a very fun ride. It's not supposed to be taken seriously... it's nice, packaged fluff meant to entertain- and entertain is something it does perfectly. I am proud to say I still watch this film (along with the others, generally in a marathon) for a fun afternoon getaway.I give this an 8 out of 10 for sheer entertainment value. "},{"Title":"wtf?","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If i hadn't seen the mummy returns, and i didn't know what the scorpion king was, i wouldn't have a clue that this was related to the mummy. Lets see... it started with fighting, it had fighting in the middle, and it ended with fighting. Basically, if you like to see small children's wishes of naked women coming out of wells, men about to be eaten alive by ants, and fighting, this is your kind of movie. If this movie had a storyline, i sure can't remember it. The mummy had a good and interesting storyline, some fighting and great humour in it, but this had little humour, no storyline, and way to much fighting. It's like they accidentally removed the action scenes from kingdom of heaven and put them into this movie. "},{"Title":"A daily comment from Midget Emma The Scorpion King (2002)","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This Mummy spin-off should never have been made. It was sloppy. It never got me in suspense and The Rock was so wrong for this. Not as good as The Mummy movies.I hated the music. When will they get that rock music doesn't belong in a movie like this.I couldn't stand this. I wanted to fall asleep but couldn't because i can't comment on something that i haven't seen all the way through.This has way more comedy then action. Sometimes the jokes don't even raise a giggle in the room.It feels like the Rock tries to bring wrestling to the movie. The rock should return to wrestling or keep doing kids comedy.I recommend you save your cash and go get a decent movie instead.2/10 "}{"Title":"Way better than Conan","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dear Readers,It's a time of darkness. A warlord named Memnon is conquering all before him with the aid of a powerful sorcerer with the ability to predict the outcome of battles. A small resistance has formed up of tribes that have managed to survive Memnon's wrath. Their leader hires three Akkaddian assassins to hunt down Memnon's sorcerer and kill him. They attack Memnon's army camp and their Leader, Mathayus, discovers the sorcerer is a beautiful woman and he has been betrayed. Memnon leaves Mathayus to die with a small-time thief who saves them both and they head to Memnon's fortress to free the sorcerer and lead an attack to stop the evil warlord once and for all.The Rock is one of my favorite actors. He's just downright cool and he's one of the best new action stars out there, right alongside Paul Walker, Gerard Butler, and Vin Diesel. The Scorpion King is an excellent movie that you have to suspend your belief in reality to watch and enjoy fully. The Rock performs well as Mathayus while Michael Clarke Duncan is as cool as he always is as Balthazar. Memnon is viciously played as Steven Brand while Kelly Hu is beautiful as the Sorceress Cassandra. The score combines hard rock and orchestral, making it all the more spectacular. Sure, some scenes are cheesy and typical Hollywood, but The Scorpion King still 'Rocks'.Signed, The Constant DVD Collector "},{"Title":"Bad film, don't watch it.","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Scorpion King is an awful film. Don't watch it, it's bad. Not good. Really, really bad.I don't mean it's bad for the lack of any kind of historical/factual/atmospheric accuracy (it was in many ways like Xena/Hercules, only bad). I mean it's bad for the lack of convincing plot, the wooden acting of the Rock, the fight scenes (a cross between wrestling moves and something even sillier), the ineffectual characters... Not good in any respect. The bad guy was dressed head to toe in black leather, and that should have been at least menacing and maybe sexy, but he failed spectacularly to be evil or appealing in any way whatsoever.The best thing about it was the presence of Bernard Hill as a mad inventor, as exemplified by the following exchangeHero guy (bursts into mad inventor's place through door, closes it behind him because he is being pursued by guards) How do I get out of here? Mad inventor Through that door.This was the only *intentionally* funny line in the film. However, I was continually amused by the pop culture references - there were pseudo-quotes from things like Indiana Jones, and I'm sure I saw a Star Wars reference somewhere... The biggest attraction, if it is one, is that being filmed in the style of Xena (complete with busty harem girls, unrealistic fighting moves, American accents... but without the depth) - it gave it an almost-charm. I decided it should be renamed 'Up the Pyramid' - though note that there were no pyramids in the making of this motion picture, since it was all set before the pyramids. And, SPOILER, it doesn't have the unhappy ending I was expecting having seen The Mummy Returns. "},{"Title":"Ancient Egypt populated by  Chinese people and Londoners.","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Scorpion King.One of the most ridiculous rag-bags I've ever seen and surely the most ridiculous depiction of Ancient Egypt ever made. Here we have the Essex Pharoah with a mullet, living in an Egypt populated by Chinese people, Indians and Londoners. In fact, his court appears to be almost entirely Chinese apart from the henchmen, who appear to be from Delhi.The Rock. What a ridiculous notion in itself. All the acting skills of, well, a rock. Oh, and again we see the timeless axiom that muscle-men wear the hairdo's of women! Then there are the desert renegades, whose community resembles the fiefdom of Tina Turner in a Mad Max film. They couldn't get her, so instead they cast a black Rock with even more lithian acting skills and &#133;hold on, not really a woman's hairdo but, another extreme mullet-cut! The plot predictable. The action hum-drum. The humour, formulaic.Oh, yeah, I waited for that Elton John song but where was it&#133;. The treacle of life. "},{"Title":"Mindless Entertainment","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Anyone expecting a serious movie, or a masterpiece should turn this off before the end of the opening credits. This movie surely does not take itself seriously, so anyone else taking it seriously will inevitably be disappointed. Don't expect it to teach you any history either, since all the writers did was take a bunch of names mentioned in ancient history and shove them all together. However this said, the movie is good for a laugh and it has some excellent action, albeit with almost no blood in sight (I'm not entirely sure if the movie shows people bleeding when they get stuck with arrows). The comedy is clearly intended to come from the pathetic sidekick character that Mathayus picks up during a close encounter with some fire ants. But surprisingly it is Mathayus himself who comes out with some of the best jokes, mainly related to who he will or won't kill and how much it will cost. As well as amusement from the antics of the characters, there is also enjoyment to be had from checking out the lavish costumes and sets for the film. Some excellent thought and research has gone into the appearance, both of the city of Gommorah and of its various denizens from the evil emperor Memnon right down to the random guards that are only really there as something for Mathayus to beat up when he has nothing better to do. Cultures that are historically centuries apart, from Classical Greeks to Ancient Egyptians, have been successfully melded to give the movie an ancient multicultural look. So yes, the acting isn't Oscar quality, and the plot won't stand up to a microscopic examination, but this is not the worst movie of all time by a long shot, and it's actually quite enjoyable once you disengage your analytical mind and just accept this movie for what it is a harmless piece of fun. "},{"Title":"Avergage action film- some humour.","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Famous American wrestler 'The Rock' plays the titular hero. The film also stars Kelly Hu ( as a psychic ) and Michael Clarke Duncan ( as an African warrior king) and the LOTR star Bernard Hill ( as a potty inventor) . The basic premise is relatively simple, the Rock plays a middle eastern warrior ( the 'Scorpion King', who we briefly saw in the Mummy Returns) who is hired to kill a evil tyrant who is making life a misery for all concerned. The Rock does this with the usual gusto and fiery pyrotechnics one associates with these types of films. Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson does have a natural screen presence and warmth that lifts him up from the usual steroidal beefcakes normally found in action -adventure films and he displays a good level of comic timing when sparring with his sidekick ( a mildly irritating whiny low life). His acting is a little clunky at times but given time and experience he should only improve. Kelly Hu could have been given a little more to do than just look hot in near nude outfits especially since she has a black belt in martial arts! shows like Alias and Buffy have proved audiences can accept women as action heroines. Michael Clarke Duncan shows little of his true ability and seems to be there mainly as another man mountain for the Rock to fight. The script is pretty standard- more humour would have helped (along the lines of Hercules the TV series) . "},{"Title":"Should Never of been made...","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This spin off of the The Mummy & Returns should never of been made! The Mummy films are brilliant then this movie is made to just take the Michael out of the Films before it! It's stupid, & dull, with appalling acting. If your a Wrestling fan & remember the Rock, and your a fan you'll love Scorpion King, but if your like me a former supporter, watching the rock in this movie, it's completely & utterly laughable! they shouldve forgot the whole idea of a spin off, & just done a third, if not that they shouldve left it. The only good point about the movie apart from the sexy Kelly Hu, is the end, when the rubbish goes off. The music in this film makes it sound like a WWE PPV. If you must watch a Rock movie i'd advise Walking Tall, and Avoid this, but if neither appeal try Welcome to the Jungle. But if you don't know the rock at all & fancy an action flick, a bit cheesy, but some effects and light hearted humour, this might just appeal to you! But my opinion, leave it well alone. "},{"Title":"Kelly Hu ..... In her Greatest Role !!","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Beautiful Hawaiian-Asian actor Kelly Hu stars in this movie as Cassandra. She's co-starred by an actor named The Rock (who by the way is also part Hawaiian) that plays the role of Mathayas in a light hearted action with more than few good special effects. The movie is about Egypt before the great dynasties were established, and Kelly Hu plays the role of an enchanting sorceress who with her intelligence and beauty captures the heart of two warriors Mathayas and Memnon. She drives the protagonist Mathayas against the antagonist Memnon who've kept her in captivity by force since her childhood. With her will and courage she over comes the enemy and brings peace and harmony to now developing Egypt. Kelly Hu is gorgeous in this movie and I just couldn't get enough of her playing Cassandra. I wish she would have starred in more movies like this which captures her talent and beauty the way it was meant to be. "},{"Title":"Waste Of My Life...","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This isn't a good movie. I'd call it more of a wrestling fantasy. When I sat down to watch 'The Scorpion King' I didn't know that much about it, I knew The Rock was starring in it but assumed this was just a career change for him and I was willing to give him a chance. However, I was very wrong. It just seemed like wrestling to me. A movie full of beautiful women wearing as little as possible and hairy, beefy guys fighting each other in a very 'choreographed' way. A boring script, boring plot, very very exaggerated acting...I'm sorry I had to sit through it. An hour and a half of my life wasted. In fact I'm wasting more and more of my life by writing a review. Don't even think about putting it into your DVD player...count your moles instead. "},{"Title":"Unimaginative Boredom","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The makers of this movie probably thought that half-nude women and well-oiled biceps automatically appeal to everyone since they actually didn't include a plot in this quite dreadful flick.The story is basically this An assassin (The Rock) is hired to kill a seer who helps an evil tyrant take over the land. For some reason he doesn't terminate her , she falls in love with him and then they together start fighting the cruel dictator. It is still possible to accept this risible, though common plot, but the way it has been realized is simply mind-boggling.The largest credit for ruining this movie doesn't actually go to The Rock, but to the general atmosphere of the movie. You never sense that the leads are in any danger, the Scorpion King is simply too powerful, he can fight a dozen men at once, getting an arrow in his back doesn't slow him down and he can fall a hundred feet (smashing into a stone floor) without taking any damage. The epic scale found in e.g. Star Wars and The Lord of the Rings is nowhere to be found.Simply put, if the things I mentioned in beginning are your main reason for watching a movie than you might like it, otherwise keep your distance to this piece of crap. "},{"Title":"Give me a break!!!","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I only watched this movie because I thought it was going to be a good one, after all, it's like before The Mummy or The Mummy Returns (really good movies by the way), but this, THIS isn't what I expected. Right, the movie is about the origins of the Scorpion King, that appeared on the Mummy Returns, probably they decided to make this movie because it was a fresh idea, not bad at all.But really, in my opinion this movie was a waste of time, when I got out of the theater I had a feeling of sadness, probably because this movie really sucked. I was bored, and couldn't difference if this was an action or a porno movie. That's right, this movie shows some nudism, that wasn't necessary after all. Probably to bring some people.Still, the movie has some funny moments, for example If you let me free I'll give you a blessing in three languages and the other guy tells him You'll scream in three languages, that was something really funny, that's why I'm giving this movie a 5, 'cause I laughed in some scenes. Still, I really don't recommend this movie a lot.NOT SO GOOD 5/10 "}{"Title":"Non fun brainless junk","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Well, if you liked Hercules (Starred as Kevin Sorbo) TV series you might like this one too, it has that same campy feeling in it. With the exception, that it has nothing own in it, all is borrowed from somewhere else. I'm not saying that Hercules was brain wood, but at least it had some good episodes in it... I think, but it was so long ago when I saw the series.The main reason why this movie has been made was, that from some reason The Rock became a big name outside the wrestling audience, and the biggest movie he had been was The Mummy, where he played (or most of the time a crappy CGI effect played him) a villain named The Scorpion King, so someone came up with an idea to make his birth as an action flick.As a movie TSK is in the same level with Conan The Destroyer (yes, that horrible sequel for Conan the Barbarian) Mostly annoying and sometimes funny, but from all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was a really really great movie to kick-start The Rocks movie career. He has previously been an actor (in WWF and such) but this was his first high-profile Hollywood hit... he only starred in the last 5 minutes of the mummy returns which can hardly be classified as a high profile acting role. This movie is great as he remains the last surviving Arcadian after many years of battle with his arch Nemesis. In the end, the rise of this skilled Arcadian assassin bring the Arcadian back from the dead and unite good to overtake the power of evil in the dark ages of the world. A truly great movie which is pumped full of great action scenes as well as the odd humorous spot to break the ice. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Performer turn Actor","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The movie base on the elaboration of the character from movie - Mummy 2. The story allow us to know how The Scorpion King come in power and tell us little about his origin.The WWE superstar The Rock turns acting for the second time. Without surprise the movie make it big into the box-office with load of The Rock's fan come to see him in this action pack movie. From very this moment there no doubt about it that he is probably the best actors of all the WWE ever produce.In my opinion The Rock have done a really good job in this (maybe a little over act), even though the dialogue suck the movie is much more entertaining than expected. The cast of star such as Kelly Hu (look stunningly hot!! In this movie), Michael Duncan (surprise to see him here after being Oscar nominee shouldn't be in this type of movie).After all this is one very entertaining movie.Rate 6/10 "},{"Title":"What's so bad about it?","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I understand how a lot of people are easily disappointed when movies coming out are all the same, with a bunch of good guys fighting a bunch of bad guys, and of course the good guys win, but there really aren't that many movies like that, without something new.In this movie, the only thing that people can attack is that it is too average, that they've seen this kind of movie millions of times. But this it isn't that bad. On the plus side, there was plenty of action, and more plot than almost any two World War 2 movies have put together. The acting was pretty natural, and the lighting isn't bad enough to be the main point of an argument.Of course, like about 99.99% of all movies, there are bad sides to this movie, like the predictability and the similarity between its sword fights.Overall, it's decidedly better than a good percentage of other movies, and I think that it deserves better than a 5 or 6. I gave it a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Don't read this, and don't watch the movie!","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I warned you. This would have been a good adventure and action movie because it has a couple of beautiful girls, and a couple of beefy guys who know how to make a swordfight and a fistfight look real. The script is the same copy-re-write of a thousand other films since Hollywood discovered Sindbad and One Thousand Nights - so it makes for light entertainment, badly needed for people who watch the news on telly. BUT, then the silent majority of special effects people came in, darkened ALL action scenes to the point of making them invisible, and if there was not a couple of movie reviews pointing your attention to (major spoiler) major cleavage showing on a couple of girls, you would have missed those five seconds, crucial moment. A film without any redeeming valour? Oh, Gosh, no. I'll remember to my death bed THE SCENE. A 12-year-old boy holds a coin in his hand, and thinks hard what wish to make in front of the wishes fountain. He is about to ask, Please, make me older so I can watch Scorpion King without censorship cuts. He rolls the coin in his fingers, and thinks best, Please, let me watch Scorpion King before they tainted the picture pit black. Then, after rolling his eyes (obviously giving up such utterly preposterous wishes) he bites his lower lip and does make a firm wish - which is immediately fulfilled on the spot. Yes... for these five seconds scene, you should try to rent this movie, if you're still wondering what slightly older boys are thinking about this very moment. What a pity producers these days have so much money to spend. Adventure movies were better when, after filming the girls in flimsy veils, and the butch guys butchering each others with daggers and kicks to the face, they had no money to destroy the movie with stinking brown paint. Unless this sort of film-making is sponsored by the association of opticians, wishing (pun intended) to see more (pun intended) customers coming in after watching Scorpion King twice... "},{"Title":"Not bad, but where did all these foreigners appear from","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I must admit I quite enjoyed the Scorpion King. I like action type movies in general & quite liked the two Mummy films, so was waiting to watch this when released on satellite. The action was fairly good, though a bit ridiclous the way whole armies are slain by a few individuals. I mean it is one thing watching a fantasy film like Conan, but quite another when this is supposed to be related to fact (well the place & peoples anyway) The story & acting in these films is never much, but both were below standard, with some of the acting hilariously bad.Now you don't expect complete realism in these films, but like another poster pointed out, where the hell did all these other races appear from. This is supposed to be in Egypt/Mesoptania area, & yet every race on earth seems to be here, including the leading nasty being English. Is their an action film where the leading villian isn't. This also must have been the ancient settlement of Hugh Heffners Playboy ranch, as every female seemed to have silicon implants, & acted like the Stepford Wives.In all fairness I did enjoy the Scorpion King, as it is so bad you have to, though I am glad I didn't pay to watch it at the cinema or bought the video or DVD. "},{"Title":"Brain Candy","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Surprisingly entertaining yarn, with good action,spectacular sets and visuals plus an enthusiastic cast. I notice the budget for the movie was 60 million dollars which works out at about 11,000 dollars per second; but it shows as the director is thus able to cleverly lay on lavish scene upon scene to keep viewer interest throughout. Both the lead actor and actress give sound performances but I thought the main baddie lacked charisma...an Alan Rickman would have done it better. The story takes place in some fantasy place and time period hence careful not to offend anyone. Recommended for those who have a mental or maturity age of about 7-14 years or can put themselves into that mode. "},{"Title":"It Rocks","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  So the Rock is never going to be an Oscar winner, but who cares?  He's the Schwarzenegger for the new generation, the Van Damme who people will actually want to see.  Nobody raises the eyebrow better than The Rock since Roger Moore, although heaven forbid that he play James Bond one day.This film is little more than a showcase for The Rock's ability to kick the crap out of everyone, but it's so knowingly over the top, you can't help but enjoy it.Deserves to be seen by millions... and millions of the Rock's fans.My rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Trying to be Conan","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film reminds me of Conan so much but is no where near as good.  The acting is okay but nothing to scream over.  The fight scenes are pretty cool so if you are an action junkie you would definitely like those.  It has some really funny scenes also and that is the main thing I like about this film.  If you are bored one night take a chance on this film and it will probably remind you of Conan too. "},{"Title":"(yawn)","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I guess this movie was really intended for fans of Dwayne Johnson aka The Rock and not for fans of The Mummy and The Mummy Returns.  It is difficult to understand how this 3rd film fits into the Mummy franchise as there is absolutely no tie-in to the prior two films...even to the small part (bad morph) that the Scorpion King gets in film two. This film is like the 3rd Halloween film Season of the Witch.  It has nothing to do with anything that involved the first 2 movies or any that followed. In short, you could replace Dwayne with Arnold and have a Conan movie. "}{"Title":"Terrible departure from the first two","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I seen this I wasn't expecting great character development or an even remotely realistic plot, just a good action flick.  Guess what?  I was disappointed.  Not only was I right about the acting and plot, but the action consisted of The Rock waving his sword around yelling, flexing his glistening muscles.This has all the suspense of a porn movie.  In one scene, The Scorpion King leads a group of 'bad guys' into a cave with quicksand all around.  He proceeds to kill each one, but in a manner that's supposed to make you 'jump'.  The closest I ever came to 'jumping' while watching this movie was yawning.Overall bad movie, 2.5/10. "},{"Title":"Yep, a stupid movie","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  As you would have thought, just a movie with pure action and off-screen killing. I was kind of hoping maybe they would have the Rock turn into a scorpion monster or something, not that it would have probably made the film better. The movie has very little plot, basically just the Rock/Scorpion King going to save everything from an evil ruler. It's pretty much as cheesy as that. I was wrong when I told my dad I thought it was pretty good after we came out of the theatre(theater?) anyway, it sorta bites off more than it can chew. I was wondering how the leader could use one sword to block an arrow, but later at the end, he couldn't block an arrow with TWO swords. Probably the only good part was the snakes. They were cool! I wonder if The Mummy/The Mummy Returns were as cheesy as this. Anyway, a 2/10. They really SHOULD make a new season of Mystery Science Theater 3000 with this film... "},{"Title":"IF YOU SMELLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL WHAT THE ROCK IS MAKING, SUCCESS!!!!!!!","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Rock has really outdid himself this time, First he stars in the sequel to The Mummy, now he's doin' the prequel to the series in The Scorpion King. A wrestler going into the big screen as an actor is a tough act. But isn't this supposed to be equal opportunity for everyone? Hulk Hogan, Roddy Piper, Bill Goldberg, and several other wrestlers want to break into acting and not just wrestle opponents. Hogan did fine on TV with Mr. T on The A-Team, Goldberg was great in Universal Soldier The Return and there were some movie flops, but neither one of them gave in to typecasting. NO ONE! The Rock did fare better on the big screen than Hogan, and I think he will supass him as a Hollywood star. You can bet your money on that!!! The Rock made a lot of guest appearances, so all you wrestling fans, back up you idols all the way give them your support in anything they do! And to the wrestlers, keep up the good work, and ggod luck in acting! This movie was a hit, and The Rock, ROCKS! He and Kelly Hu were indeed an item! Good action, good plot, and great success it the making of others. I wish The Rock very well in Hollywood. Rating 5 out of 5 Stars!!!!! "},{"Title":"I felt bad for everyone involved","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This was by far one of the worst movies i have ever seen. I loved the first two mummy movies and was very excited to see this film. I don't think i have ever been so disappointed. The movie didn't discuss the scorpion king's reign or his powers. We didn't get to see his army or him conquering the world. The movie has the feel of Hercules or Xena. At one point The Rock takes his bow and shoots someone and they go flying!!! I watch wrestling occasionally, and that is where the rock should stay. He is a great entertainer but he can't act. Bernard Hill is a wonderful actor who prostituted his talent to do this. I expected good judgment from Michael Clark Duncan. The movie is a pointless waste of time. Basically, don't waste your time you would enjoy getting shot better.  "},{"Title":"Aargh...please...somebody gouge out my eyes...","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I was back in my hometown visiting for the holidays when some friends of mine rented this DVD. Against my better judgment, I decided to watch this atrocity with them. To be blunt, the creators of this film did just about everything wrong, from horrendous acting, to an inconsistent musical score, to outright ripping off scenes from Indiana Jones and Conan the Barbarian. The films also lacks any form of uniqueness and originality, and suspension of disbelief is non-existent. Not that I expected much from this film, I figured it would be one of those types of entertaining films that are watched just for fun and don't require any intellectual investment on the part of the viewer, the kind you'd watch after coming home from a long, hard day at work. Unfortunately, this film fails even in this category. It falls into the Is this ever going to end? category. The only reason I watched the whole thing was to not be rude to the people I was watching it with. I feel like I should be solving physics problems now to make up the IQ points that this film robbed from me. If you haven't seen The Scorpion King yet, save yourself the agony and skip it. "},{"Title":"(yawn)","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  All in all I thought it was a total blow. The movie has a horrible script and uneven acting. The movie shouldn't say starring Kelly Hu, it should say star Kelly Hu's body, because she is half-naked in almost every scene she's in. And the Rock? Shouldn't quit his day job. This movie makes even Oscar Nominee Michael Clarke Duncan look bad. "},{"Title":"Well....lots of fight scenes","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...and that's about it.  No advancing the plot whatsoever, indeed, not much of one at all.  I thought this was going to be tied into the Scorpion King from Mummy 2 (which I liked), but this centered on some bizarre pre-civilization conquerer with a sorceress and seemingly one army that ruled the entire earth.  Sorry, but it makes no sense.This movie is nothing more than fight scenes spliced together - I'm assuming that's because The Rock is so bad at acting. "},{"Title":"Comedy and acrobatics","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I must say I got a bit stunned when I saw the average rating this movie has at the moment. Nothing...and I really mean nothing in this movie has anything to do with acting. The girls are not actors the are models with perfect silikone breasts, bodies and teeth. Not seen that often in ancient egypt. Its totally unrealistic, I mean how can a guy shot by an arrow fly through a tent and up in the air. I know this is an adventure movie but there are limits. The actors come with what should be funny remarks throughout the whole movie. However this does not contribute anything good whatsoever. And I cant really say anything about the plot because its simply not there. The story is very very thin and should never have been filmed. However if you like series like Xena and Hercules you will probably like this one too. More of the same I would say although Xena/Hercules are better. I enjoyed the mummy movies a lot and have seen them several times. They are imo far better than Scorpion King why these should never be compared. Luckily I only gave about USD 1.00 to see it which is more than enough.   "},{"Title":"Whoa, this is CRAP!","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is one of the lamest, most badly acted pieces of crap I have ever seen in this genre. Nothing new, The irritating kid,The beautiful woman, The funny sidekick and last but not leastThe lame scientist. God this was crap!   "},{"Title":"Rent Conan the Barbarian Instead","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This wasn't a bad movie, it's just that I have seen it done a dozen other times and mostly done better.Dwayne, AKA The Rock, didn't do a bad job and could do other roles.  Doing a role as Vin Diesel's brother comes to mind.There just wasn't any way to care about what happened. The viewer wasn't allowed to forget for a second that they were watching actors and this was all a movie.Watching the alternate endings on the DVD just reinforces how they must have had a list of cliche tag lines, Catch this My prophecy says you are going to die and so forth. This wasn't a story turned into a movie, it was a marketing plan for a film built around The Rock.  If you want some excuse to eat some popcorn, watch a few swords and arrows tossed about, and look at nice set of abs (his or hers), this movie will do. "}{"Title":"A fight defending his homeland","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This could have been a good epic film even for children, but spoiled with too much blood shed and violence. The film has plenty of scenes with very good mixed effects, but most of them are very violent. The plot is very simple. When you see it you immediately remember another adventure film, Conan the Barbarian (1982), which is quite similar to the present one. Ex- Wrestling champion Dwayne Johnson showed his abilities fighting first to the strong Michael Clarke (you may see this actor also starring in The Planet of the Apes as Colonel Attar) and then against artificial Steven Brand. Beautiful Kelly Hu also starred and that's all in this probably expensive film.      "},{"Title":"A blast for The Rock and his Millions and Millions of Fans.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King follows in the grand tradition of such warrior epics as... Spartacus? Ben Hur? Even Conan The Barbarian? Try Kull The Conqueror - not only is The Rock almost as accomplished an actor as Kevin Sorbo, but John Debney's score, like Joel Goldsmith's for the earlier film, is not immune to a rock beat. Electric guitars wailing under scenes set far, far in the past do not a movie easily taken seriously make (as anyone who's seen Young Guns will testify).To be fair, with Kull The Conqueror it was obvious tongues were in cheeks from the casting of Harvey Fierstein, and similarly there's enough evidence to indicate that this prequel to the two Mummy tales is meant to be at least in part intentionally funny. Then again, how seriously can you take anything presented in association with World Wrestling Federation Entertainment?Anyway, He Who Asks If You Smell What He Cooks plays one of a band of mercenaries hired to restore a king to his throne and saving his country by wiping out the villain's seer (who foresees his battles). But betrayed, bereaved and left in the desert to die, it's not long before he, his comic relief sidekick and the sorceress (who needless to say doesn't really work for the evil side) are well and truly in the thick of it. It's also not long before viewers start playing Spot The Source Material -  one sequence set in a cave under the desert has Rambo written all over it. It's additionally not long before you wonder how this required four credited writers, including Mummy maestro Stephen Sommers (who leaves directing duties in the hands of Chuck Russell, a capable man even if he did do Eraser) and X-Men's David Hayter.The movie clearly has less financial muscle behind it than the two other ones (not only do Industrial Light and Magic sit this one out, but it was filmed entirely in California); it occasionally oversteps the mark in trying to fit in everything (at one point our hero is literally catapulted into a harem!); and several of the actors could use a conviction transfusion... but then again, you don't really expect Six Feet Under with this kind of thing. With a reasonable running time and enough of a pace to make its flaws fairly easy to overlook, The Scorpion King plays like one of Renaissance Pictures' TV adventure shows, which is ultimately no bad thing - The Rock astride his trusty camel! Arrows propelling people through walls! Battles every ten minutes or so! People escaping everything from red ants to early experiments with gunpowder! Michael Clarke Duncan in a dress! Logic-defying escapes! Villains regularly urging disposable underlings to their deaths! Anachronistic dialogue (After a hard day's looting and pillaging, there's no place like Gomorrah - except maybe Sodom)! All this and a bonus for men in the gorgeous Kelly Hu spending the entire movie wearing considerably less than she did on Martial Law (though she gets very little chance to get physical)... it's all silly, but you can't deny that it sets out to entertain and does precisely that. And it does explain why he's called the Scorpion King, incidentally.By the way, soundtrack album ripoff alert - of the 16 tracks on the music from and inspired by album, only the Godsmack and Mushroomhead songs are actually in the movie, and then only over the end credits. As opposed to Debney's score album, which is where we came in. "},{"Title":"Trashy spin-off movie that's enjoyable nonsense.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The bad thing about `The Scorpion King' is it's a load of popcorn, brain-dead nonsense. The good thing about `The Scorpion King' is that's exactly what I expected going in to see it and so, in a way, I wasn't disappointed.`The Scorpion King' is a spin-off movie from `The Mummy Returns', the weak sequel to the highly enjoyable `The Mummy'. It's about. the scorpion king, Mathayus (played by the multiple Oscar winning actor `The Rock' a.k.a. Dwayne Johnson). Mathayus is on a vengeance quest (naturally) against the evil Memnon (Steven Brand) who's mis-using his power. He's assisted by the beautiful (and scantily clad) sorceress Cassandra (Kelly Hu). Along the way they meat Comic Relief, Cute Kid, Big Baddies, and they all have Adventures. Yes, this movie is drowning in clichés, practically choking on them. It almost revels in its unoriginality and there's a feeling that everyone is having a bit of fun with this picture. The action set pieces can be seen in many other movies. and yet I didn't find this that offensive, due to the somewhat camp tone of the movie (think a fantasy version of `Commando' and you're someway there).`The Scorpion King' is quite amusing, and a lot of times (I assume) this is deliberate. Right from the opening, when Mathayus bursts into a room of `bad guys', to the accompaniment of rock music, firing multiple arrows and quipping as he goes, I was laughing. The hammy performances, and jocular tone to the proceedings, had me smiling and enjoying myself for most of the picture - it's not half as witty as `The Mummy' sure, but it's fun nonetheless.Everything technical about `The Scorpion King' is poor naturally. In the grand tradition of blockbuster movies, the acting abilities of the participants don't bother manifesting themselves (presumably because it's an impossibility in some cases, right Rock?). The Rock is reminiscent of Arnie in the Conan series, and he's fine for his muscular-hero role, but I don't envisage him taking on Russell Crowe any time soon. The directing is fairly mundane. the action sequences are, as stated before, derivative and handled with no real skill, but hey, I wasn't thinking David Fincher would show up here. Actually the script is mundane too - it contains no surprises, with a few amusing lines in the dialog lifting it above the bland. And yet. `The Scorpion King' is the perfect video-with-popcorn movie, when you want to cool your brain down after a viewing of `Memento'. It's fun, trashy and completely forgettable. It's not as good as the two other instalments in the franchise, but it's never boring. Therefore I'd give it a 5.8/10, balancing the weak technical aspects with the overall enjoyment I received from it.  "},{"Title":"Gladiator Wannabe","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Did anyone else notice that the trailer for this film is a complete bite off of the Gladiator trailer?  The warrior that became a legend, the legend that became king...  It didn't bother me too much, but I thought it was kind of uncool of them to do that.I must admit, I had very low expectations of this film when I walked into the theater, but I knew that it was directed by Chuck Russell (The Mask, Eraser, Bless The Child), so I thought it would be better directed than either of the Mummy films.  I have to say that I was throughly let down.  I don't know what came over Chuck Russell, but there were a number of times that I wanted to scream at the screen and say What the hell was that?  In the first five minutes of the movie I knew I wasn't going to like it.  There was just too many cheesy things in it, and TERRIBLE one liners!  Maybe I'm biased and I just don't like The Rock?  I don't know.I'm not really one to say bad things about acting, so I'm not going to start here.  Although, I will say the only acting I was really impressed with was the acting of Grant Heslov.  I thought his character was stupid, but he did a good job with what he was given.  It took me a while to recognize him from Congo and True Lies.  I was also rather impressed with Kelly Hu, not because of her acting skills, but because of her physique.  Quite the looker!  I thought it was hilarious that she was nearly naked throughout the entire movie!  I thought Michael Clarke Duncan did a pretty good job with his role, but nothing spectacular.As for story-line, it was incredibly simple, but that's not really a bad thing.  This is an action movie, it should be relatively simple.  There really isn't much to say there, some of the plot details were quite dumb, but the over-all story was ok.The special effects in the film were ok.  Sometimes really good, sometimes not so good.  I won't really say anything good or bad about them.  I will say, however, that NONE of the special effects were as cartoony as they are in the Mummy films.  Although, there was a lot less special effects in The Scorpion King than either of the Mummy films.I have to say that the comedy in the film was unbelievably stupid.  There were a few scenes where I chuckled a little, but most of the comedy was so stupid!Overall, I wouldn't say it was the worst movie I've ever seen, I've seen FAR FAR worse, but it isn't anything I would recommend shelling out 8 bucks to see in the theater.  I'd definitely recommend waiting till video or at least seeing at matinee prices.  I hope you enjoy the film more than I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"The Rock hit Rock Bottom!","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First i must truly say i enjoy watching the Rock in the WWF. He is a great star in the wrestling scene. However his acting on screen leaves a lot to be desired. There was no depth, no conviction to the character he was trying to portray. I felt like it was just a drag. Even as an action movie it was poor, and that is hard to do! Perhaps it is because we are so used to the Rock in one way, but perhaps not. The bottom line is the Rock needs to stay away from Hollywood and the film industry and stick with what he is best at.  "},{"Title":"Dull action film","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film, a prequel of sorts to the disappointing Mummy movies features the emotionless Wrestling star The Rock as the Scorpion King... a bland performance in a rather bland movie.. the film features a couple of mildly involving fight scenes but rather uninteresting and just plain boring characters and people that basically fail to hold your attention. The film is just a bore, plain and simple.... If you liked the Mummy movies, which I admit that I did not, then perhaps this will suit you more than it did me.. but if you didn't like those films, this one is even worse. GRADE D "},{"Title":"Not camp, but a breezy, goofy great movie!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is silly, goofy, and wonderful. It's not one of those so bad it's good, movies. It really is good, but you must understand it is within a certain genre. It's kind of like the first of the modern Mummy movies, with Brendan Fraser. In some ways it's even better than that movie??? Doesn't matter--- Scorpion King is so breezy and good hearted, you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The acting wasn't bad!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sorry but I couldn't stand this movie.  The opening scene was stupid.  If they were going to try to make it a comedy then they should have stuck to that genre.  The theater I was in was filled to capacity & the only laughs I heard was from the row behind us filled with teenagers.  The Rock wasn't a bad actor and he could probably get better with more practice, if he gets the chance.  The girl was good & Michael Clarke Duncan is always a must see.  He & Steven Brand clearly carried this movie.  I would have liked to see a few scenes with only those two characters.  The young side-kick was clearly not needed.  He offered nothing to the movie & his one liners were anything but funny. Hardly anyone in the theater even understood the reference to Sodom & GomorahOne thing I found very contradictory was the fact that they were to be the ultimate assassins but he couldn't kill a slave girl or enemy soldier to kill his nemesis.  I'm also sorry to say that a true blood-thristy assassin would not have cared so much about the little orphan boy.Sorry this movie stunk & was clearly predictable.  My 17 year old son even thought it was bad. "},{"Title":"Pass the Milk","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If you like violent breakfast cereal, then this is the film for you.  I'd sooner buy Wheaties with The Rock on the box than sit through a sequel to Scorpion King (this film itself being a spin-off of the recent Mummy films starring Brendan Fraser).  Luckily, a friend sprung for my ticket, so I saved $9.50.  Find something better to do than plunk down your hard earn cash on this mush (Needs more milk and plenty of sugar!).  Sure, it's got some sort-of cool special-effects, but I can see that on TNT and TBS for free! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Impressive ROCK!","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Mummy and The Mummy Returns certainly are well enough established in the Action Genre to pull in a crowd for a spin-off such as The Scorpion King which means just because the movie is #1 around the nation doesn't mean it's as good as it's predecessors, or good on it's own. However, it is. The Scorpion King for some reason still feels like a sequel...but at the same time it still has an Epic feel to it and Dwayne The Rock Johnson holds his own as The King himself and the main character. I still am not convinced that he will be able to pull off any other role other than the Scorpion King but as long as he sticks to that role, I will be happy to go see him. The Rock begins as an assassin and a member of an almost extinct tribe The Acadians, and he is hired by the remains of other tribes to murder a sorceress who is the power force behind an evil destroyer who is wiping out the earth's tribes and controlling most of the known world. Everything changes when the destroyer murders The Rock's brother and suddenly, it's personal and he seeks vengeance. The movie does not really touch on how or why he becomes The Scorpion King and certainly they left enough unsaid to make another film, and left us wanting more too. In fact (and I rarely say this) I don't think The Scorpion King was long enough. I think they could have added more to the story, given us more background and more in depth character study which would have made it feel less like a sequel but nonetheless it's a movie worth seeing this Spring. It's the first great movie of the Spring/Summer season. The action is absolutely amazing, the moves of Mathius (The Scorpion King) and the choreography of the fight scenes is just perfect and flawless and NEW!!! Finally some new moves and some new things that just make you say cool! The special effects are impressive and NOT CHEESY...they may be computer generated but you would never know it unlike some other Spring action flicks (ahem Blade 2.) Overall I give the movie a strong STRONG 8/10. It's absolutely worth seeing and an worth spin-off to the Mummy series. I hope we have a new action hero in Dwayne Johnson (and a retired wrestler ugh.) "}{"Title":"The Rock Is Not An Actor","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My wife, friend Dan and I saw the movie.  We all liked the Mummy series.  We all discussed it and found the movie okay.  However, it does not have the strong acting like the Mummy.  The movie tried to be a cross between the movies Conan and the Mummy.  I expected a bit more from the action scenes.  The ending was the typical Hollywood formula ending.  Nothing special about this one.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Spin off from The Mummy films. Lots of muscles, sandals, sand and swords. Not many clothes. Sex without eroticism. Violence without blood. Good fun. 3 Flys Out Of Five","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King, starring The Rock of World Championship Wrestling fame, is unashamedly about men with very big muscles, women with very little clothing, swords, sand and sandals. It's fun. The Rock, real name Dwayne Johnson, just might crack it for the new big muscled super hero, the Arnie of the 21st century, if that genre still exists. He has a similar feel, only without Schwarzenegger's accent, a self mocking assuredness that makes The Rock very likeable, at least in this movie.The plot is a joke, as it's meant to be. The scorpion King is something of a follow on from the Brendan Frazer Mummy duo of flicks, but only nominally.A tyrant called Memmon (Steven Brand) rules some ancient sandy land with the help of a beautiful sorceress (Kelly Hu). The Rock plays Mathayus who, with a jokey sidekick (Grant Heslov) and a huge cohort (Michael Clarke Duncan, The Green Mile), takes on the bad guy in a series of big battles.Lots die but this is a film with no blood. That's balanced by a feast of male and female flesh, carefully concealed by a few stitches of thread.This is violence with a lot of grunt but a minimum of carnage. This is sex with a lot of grunt but no eroticism.The Scorpion King starring The Rock was introduced in The Mummy Returns. Somehow he's reincarnated here as a goody, reinforcing the parallels with Arnie in The Terminator films. We'll see how The Rock shapes up after this promising debut in a leading roll.3 Sandy Flys Out Of Five  "},{"Title":"Amusing in it's action, horrible in it's acting, a bit of a below par B-movie","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King stars the Rock, the wrestler (real name Dwayne Johnson doesn't appear around the credits part, pay it no mind), takes on the spin off movie of his character from the Mummy 2.  Here, he shows his acting skills are formidable (er, pretty uninspired and lame) for a action movie of this sort.  And by this sort I mean where the action is non-stop until the point when you give up and give in to the amusing aspects of the action scenes- like when the Rock gets thrown into a room full of women in one fight scene (I'm not making this up) and then is surrounded by cooing ladies and what does the Rock do, he gives the People's eyebrow.  This is also back when that was the past time I take it.  Only die hard fans of Johnson, or those looking depserately for a exciting movie, should vide this, those not interested in the first place should steer clear.  B- "},{"Title":"Fun little flick","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is nice little fun popcorn to start out the summer 2002 movie season. The film has good chrorgraphed action sequences one-liners and the very sexy Kelly Hu. The Rock does good in his lead role and the film remnids me a lot of the very first Conan film. Go see it and just have fun. "},{"Title":"The 'king' of all movies!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and as soon as I left the theater, it instantly become my new favorite movie. I didn't think that The Rock was going to give much of a performance, but I was proved wrong. He makes one heck of an action hero. Kelly Hu did a pretty good job too as the sorceress. Director Chuck Russell once again proves he is incapable of making a bad film and the screenplay by Russell, Jonathon Hales, David Hayter, William Osborne, and Stephen Sommers isn't as cliched and silly as you may think. The music is great, the special effects are excellent, and the plot just keeps moving along. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Move over Conan, The Scorpian King has arrived.","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm glad that they descided to make a spin off of from The Mummy Returns. This movie had great action, and great humor. Dwayne The Rock Johnson proves he can act at times. He plays Mathayus, an Akkadian assassin hired by a loose confederation. His mission to kill a sorcerer who acts as battle advisor for an evil ruler(Steven Brand). I don't want to give to much away. But all I'll tell ye. You won't be dissapointed. The Rock is the next big action hero. Michael Clarke Duncan is also good in it.  "},{"Title":"Silly, predictable, cliched nonsense.  Great fun.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film could be worse.  Not much, but it could star Steven Seagal and take itself seriously.  It doesn't, and kids will love it.  I'd rather watch honest hokum than pompous rubbish such as Vanilla Sky.Just a few questions though.  Its set in Gomorrah, in the Middle East, yet the Rock's brother is Hawaiian?  The bad guy is English (as usual) and the Amazon warriors looks like cheerleaders from Baltimore.  Mind you, the film never claims to be authentic.Is The Rock the new Arnie?  He's just as expressive and can act better than Tom Cruise.  Hmmm, the future looks bright.... "},{"Title":"Don't be too critical!!!!","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It amazes me that most of the user comments of this movie tend to fall into the not to bad but not to good category. I admit to a certain extent that maybe the case. What I believe many commentators fail to realise the type of movie this is? Yes we have seen the same plot in a number of different movies - you know the hero taking revenge on someone for killing their family members etc (this of course is the basis for most superhero origin movies as if that is the only thing the male psyche can relate to). But for this movie the plot device that propels our unsung hero The Scorpion King (The Rock in his first major role) actually works. (If you want more plot details read some of the other user comments) The Scorpion King could be taken as a cross between Conan and Indiana Jones. Swords and sandals with one death defying scrape after another. I mean the hero using a large brass gong to escape the guards is a direct nod to a similar scene in The Temple of Doom. For the type of movie that it is - a no brainer action flick enjoyed with other guys over a six pack and pizza - it actually delivers.From the very opening sequence where the heroes brother has been held hostage to final battle with memnon it is wall to wall action by the Rock as he tears apart everything and anything on screen. If you enjoy it at this level then you will not be disappointed. If you want something more serious and along the same vain then the original Conan the Barbarian with Arnold and directed by the superb John Milius will be your cup of tea.However, the Rock, in his first role, establishes himself as the new action star of the 21st century easily taking over Arnies mantle from the 80's. His acting maybe not that great but when he starts bruising heads the Rock is poetry in motion. And what is even more superb is that no swearing was needed to generate a rollicking good, if kinda shallow, adventure.So check your brain at the door and just indulge in the senseless adventure that is The Scorpion King. Hears hoping the follow-up (without The Rock) will be just as incredibly fulfilling in a shallow way! "},{"Title":"Scorpion King-always worth a watch","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Wow, I see this movie has been awash with negative reviews. Look, every movie isn't Citizen Kane. It's an excellent action/adventure/love story all mixed up in one. The Rock is really good in this role, entirely believable. This was his first big role, and he nailed it, which is why he's still starring in movies today. Kelly Hu is an unbelievably beautiful Scorceress who turns into Rock's love interest. Michael Clark Duncan doesn't do his best work here, but it's good enough. The rest of the cast isn't that great, but the movie is really about the Rock and Hu anyways. Great sets, it looks completely authentic and the movie is shot beautifully. There is a reason this gets played a lot on USA, it gets ratings. It gets ratings because it's good entertainment, and shows the Rock on his way to mega stardom. Too bad Kelly Hu hasn't had a chance at a similar vehicle, she's well worth it. "},{"Title":"one of the greatest films i've ever seen!","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The most recent film from one of my all-time favorite directors, Mr. Charlie Russell. Russell has finally been able to top his magnum opus, Eraser (though the Mask is clearly neck-and-neck) with The Scorpion King. The film stars the Rock in a startling performance I'm sure no one could have saw coming. His Scorpion King is expanded from his brief role in The Mummy Returns to a stately, well-drawn character that stays in our minds and hearts long after the credits have rolled.One of the best aspects of the film is it's lyrical eroticism skimpy outfits and hair covering breasts, that is titillating yet refined and tasteful. A lot better than the disgusting sex-fest that can be found on the racks of your local Blockbuster Video store.And the action. Oh, where to begin. I get tired just thinking exhilarating action sequences that re-write the book of exhilarating action sequences. Jackie Chan has nothing on the Rock in this film that would make John Woo blush and go back to China. I don't want to say too much, but the catapult sequence is one of the funniest moments in all of cinema history, and believe me I know funny. The White Camel is also quite awesome.In retrospect, I have no choice but to give this film a mighty 10 out of 10. Take it from me, Dan The Movie Man Wolfson! "}{"Title":"The Scorpion King Hits Rock Bottom!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Although his much clamored about role in The Mummy Returns only amounted to less than five minutes of actual screen time, the media attention and subsequent sales were enough to insure that Dwayne The Rock Johnson was already signed up for the lead role in the film's prequel, The Scorpion King.  Speculation amongst wrestling and movie fans raged, as both wondered whether the film would be a hit or a flop, and whether Johnson was willing to take a page from wrestling icon Hulk Hogan's book and risk putting out a bad film for the chance of becoming a legitimate star in the wrestling and movie world.  It turns out he is following more along the lines of Rowdy Roddy Piper, starring in a movie that is nowhere near as bad as Hogan's films, but entertaining enough for all the wrong reasons to earn the title of cult classic.Johnson's role in The Mummy Returns did not require him to speak.  In retrospect, this is the best thing they could do for that role, as it left the character with a shred of credibility.  As Mathayus (the man who would be the Scorpion King), Johnson blatantly overacts, treating the entire film as if he were simply cutting a long WWF promo.  It's a legitimate shock that he doesn't burst out an It doesn't matter! or If you smel-l-l-l-l-l-l what Mathayus is cookin'! during the course of the film.  As it is, there are surprisingly few wrestling moves and only a few subtle references to The Rock's WWF character.  However, given that this film, like The Mummy Returns, credits him as The Rock and seems to be aiming toward attracting an audience of wrestling fans, it is puzzling and interesting that there weren't more obvious references.To make up for the lack of wrestling moves, the film promises and delivers nothing but action! The paper-thin plot has its share of holes, but it doesn't matter (no pun intended) when the film is 90% action.  Long stretches of the film are devoted to non-stop violence, Johnson against all comers, with barely a scratch against him.  This type of invincible hero destroys mobs of foes with the bat of an eyelash style action has never been realistic or appealing, especially in a non-gory (due to the film's PG-13 rating) context, but if anyone is to make it look believable, it's Johnson.  Those who bought tickets solely to see The Rock whip some candy ass! will not be disappointed.  To those who were hoping for something more, there's always the inevitable sequel (especially given the most obvious plot hole of The Scorpion King being a villain in The Mummy Returns and a hero in this film).Perhaps it would be easier to take the film seriously if it wasn't so cheesy and unintentionally funny.  Vast amounts of CGI are thankfully spared, but the CGI ants and snakes that do make appearances are plastic-like in appearance, unrealistically shiny, and nowhere near convincing.  As if that alone weren't bad enough, what does Johnson do? Squash the ants with his chin.  Though a little tongue-in-cheek, the majority of sequences such as these are presented seriously, which makes them all the more funny.  Ironically, the scenes that are played for laughs, such as those with comic relief, are for the most part not funny.  Also, in true cult fashion, one of the film's biggest draws is an attractive female lead.  In this case, said lead is Kelly Hu, who actually gives the best performance of the movie (not that anyone really noticed due to her wearing of the skimpiest outfit in the movie).This film has all the elements (lots of meaningless violence, a popular celebrity making a total fool of himself with a poor performance, thin plot, unintentional humor, and a sexy lead) to be a cult classic, and on this level it's very enjoyable.  Although the film was by all means terrible, and the worst I have seen all year, it's a decent stepping stone for Johnson to have a legitimate acting career some day (or, more likely, a semi-legitimate career in the fashion of another wrestler turned actor, Rowdy Roddy Piper), and had parts that were enjoyable.  It's definitely not a film worth $9 though, wait for it to come out on video, then get a party together and laugh at it. "},{"Title":"An exciting adventure","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Scorpion King is a movie with originality and good action. The great wrestler the Rock goes Conan in this adventure where he plays an Akkadian warrior in the ancient Middle East. He has to face an evil ruler and conquerer who uses a gifted fortuneteller to win his battles.The Rock shows that he can be a good action hero like Arnold and Sly was in the 80's and 90's. He has a good sense of humor and at the same time he is a though killing machine.The story is great so there is no chance you will get bored by this film unless you hate action movies. The scenery and atmosphere in the movie is really nice. It makes me wish I could go back in time and experience those ancient and mythical places in the Middle East.The only thing that is bad about this movie is some of the fighting scenes. They are a bit unrealistic. But still they are not very supernatural like the scenes in the Chinese movies like Hero. I would also have liked to see more erotic scenes like you see in Conan the Barbarian. I really don't have much bad to say about this movie. I leave that to the more critical people. I'm just happy that I've seen it, and I hope they make more of it's kind. We need more adventures with great warriors like The Scorpion King. "},{"Title":"This is a relatively short and harmless sword and sandler-take your nearest adolescent boy and watch his eyes dart between the steroidal Rock and the buxom girlies-Ah, Hollywood, at least you have fun.","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  No one makes trashy action flicks better than Hollywood. Don't worry about challenging your brain on `The Scorpion King.' First introduced in `The Mummy Returns,' the King is again played by wrestling hero `The Rock.' The plot is so thin, I'm afraid to walk over it for fear of disappearing through its icy logic.Taken from stories about a famous Egyptian warrior, `The Scorpion King' unfolds 5000 years ago in the infamous Gomorrah, ruled by a ruthless barbarian with an uncanny success in slaughtering or enslaving other tribes. The Rock is hired by the remaining tribes to assassinate the warlord's sorceress, who has supplied him with the key visions for victory.The Rock fights an interesting villain played by TV actor Steven Brand, whose Brit bite reminds me of a young, subtle Peter O'Toole.  Rock absconds with Brand's visionary sorceress, actress Kelly Hu, the key to ruler Brand's martial successes.  Guess who falls in love. Guess who is defeated.The martial arts are rudimentary, despite Hu's real life black belt and Rock's considerable wrestling talents.  She would have been more at home in `Crouching Tiger,' where the fighting is ballet.  Here it is just quick cutting and no blood.The comparison with Arnold is inevitable Well, Rock speaks more clearly and is handsomer, but Arnie makes fun of himself a whole lot better. This is a relatively short and harmless sword and sandler-take your nearest adolescent boy and watch his eyes dart between the steroidal Rock and the buxom girlies-Ah, Hollywood, at least you have fun.  "},{"Title":"what is wrong with all the critics?","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" the critics these days think that only MUTE movies and PEOPLE CRYING movies are good ones...they are the so called CRITICALLY ACCLAIMED masterpieces...well i 'll tell you what?....never listen to those blithering idiots...if u feel like watching a movie...just go ahead...or if u don't really want to risk,then just find out about the movie from your friends or relatives or from any ORDINARY person for that matter...its these critic movies that are getting really stereotypical...with deaf and dumb people who can only fill buckets with their eyes...do not mistake me for an action movie lover...i do like art movies...for ex some of my all time favorite movies are A Beautiful Mind,Requiem for a Dream,The pianist,Cinderella Man....just to name a few...but there is no point in sneering at the mere tag of action for a movie..after all you are here to be entertained and this movie will not disappoint you in that regard...it is fun to watch...these people have put in more effort into their movie than what an average ART movie technicians would do...and u have to appreciate that... "},{"Title":"One of the dumbest movies I have ever seen","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this movie was horrible before the title even appeared. Before the title appears, we see the Rock fight with the most ridiculous stunts I have ever scene. It was a very lame attempt at a matrix style scene with him kicking people and they went flying a lot farther than a normal person would.  Everything was awful about this. This was supposed to take place during Sadom and Gomorrah times, well couldn't they have at least tried to be a little authentic. Instead, the people in the city look like they come from Europe. And the way they talked sounded like it came from today instead of a long time ago. I mean, what guy from 5000 years ago says, Boo.  Not to mention, gunpowder wasn't around back then.And all the fighting scenes were horrible. It was some lame rip off from Gladiator except they couldn't show the blood and gore because it was PG-13.  And the girl served no other purpose but to walk around in very skimpy outfits.  I thought it was too skimpy for its PG-13 rating.The script was total trash.  And it followed true to all dumb action stories like this. No originality what so ever.  Who else remembers the scene from Indiana Jones, the Temple of Doom where he avoids gunfire by using a giant gong.  Here, the Rock uses one to avoid arrows.FINAL VERDICT Please do not see this.  It's awful; do NOT encourage a sequel to be made. "},{"Title":"This movie is done in poor taste.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The violent and sensual content of this film might be interesting to the male observers but totally turns off the female viewer because the main female character is not only depicted as a half naked sexual object of the male character, but also has little character value. This film is totally dominated by male machoism and denigrates the value of life, humanity, and women. The hero of the movie is a hired killer who is glorified for the violent manner in which he relates to other characters.  I would not recommend taking children, teenagers, or adults to this movie.  It would not be worth the time or money. "},{"Title":"Good butt kickin' fun.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King tells of a desert assassin (the hero), his reluctant comic-relief buddy, his trusty camel, a luscioius sorceress,  a gigantus black warlord dude, an army of barbarous babes, cute theif/kid, and an old alchemist who take on a desert bastion to rid the kingdom of the people's scourge, a wicked king who catches arrows and probably picks on old ladies and kids too. No brainer action entertainment which you can leave to go get a beer without missing anything important except maybe The Rock's eyebrow thing, this flick is a fun not-to-be-taken-seriously diversion with a sense of humor worth a look by action junkies who aren't going to get all up tight and analytical. Fun stuff, no more, no less. (B-) "},{"Title":"Aargh!  The badness!  The horrible, palpable badness!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Most of the anachronisms are fine by me.  Catapults, crossbows, gunpowder, telescopes - I understand it's all part of the fantasy; I know that all these things, modern though some of them are, have an Olde Worlde flavour that sits reasonably well with the swords and sorcery and clay bricks and visions and jewels and so forth.  But I draw the line at breast implants.  Really!  I don't think there was a genuine pair of boobs in the whole movie.  Believe me, I looked we never see much of Kelly Hu (even when she's naked), so I'll admit the jury's out in her case, but I did get a decent squiz at half a dozen courtesans, another half-dozen street prostitutes and the odd female warrior, and without exception they not only have painfully unconvincing breasts, but painfully unconvincing EVERYTHING.  Their very skin seems to be made of plastic.  How is this possible?  Even in California, there must be some young actresses left who at least LOOK as though they have real flesh. ...Yes, it's a bad movie, made worse by the fact that there's real promise buried beneath the layers of badness, just as there's promise in ANY unfettered fantasy of simple heroism in the Ancient World.  (I kind of wish the Mummy movies had been set entirely in Ancient Egypt, without the 20th Century intruding, just as I wish the 20th Century hadn't intruded on The Scorpion King by means of breast implants.)  But if you deny the badness you simply don't have eyes and ears.  The dialogue is among the most unspeakably atrocious I've encountered - that is, in a film for which someone was actually PAID to write the script.  I can't be the first person to have complained about As long as we live and breathe, the Sorcerer shall die, a sentence which is about as sensible as Until I pay off my mortgage, Verdi was born on a Wednesday.  Not all dialogue is unspeakable because it makes no sense, but it's all unspeakable for some reason.  And what's with that electric ghee-tar music that accompanies half the action scenes?  It's as if someone was deeply confused by the fact that the actor playing the hero is, in real life, a professional wrestler.  What if he'd been a ship hand?  Would they have played a hornpipe? "},{"Title":"Why bother?","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Scorpion King is just another bad sequel made for the sole purpose of bringing in cash. The Rock should stick to acting badly on Monday Night Raw. I cannot believe the number of people who would pay $12 to see this crap, c'mon the guy is a wrestler, how can you take this film seriously? It's not a comedy, therefore there shouldn't be jokes acting in it.If I had to some up the Mummy series in one word it would be Unrespectable. Oh, and they should have Brendan Fraser in one of the next sequels, watching him struggle through a scene makes me cry laughing. Anyone who fell for this disaster/waste of film much have entered the wrong cinema.Good Day.(Do yourself a favour and watch an independent or foreign film!) "},{"Title":"So Terrible!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was horrible.  It was the most agonizing 90 minutes of my life. The action sequences were extremely predictable, such as when he pulled the arrow out of his back and shot it. Ahhhh! Action at its worst.  If you haven't seen this movie yet, save yourself 8 bucks and, if you really feel the need to, pick it up at Blockbuster in 5 months.  Hopefully sooner! The more money this movie makes the angrier I'll get.  Tell the people my story! "}{"Title":"Horrible.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Definitly one of the worst movie I've seen in ages. The acting is horrible, the scenario is awful, the music doesn't fit at all (when will people realize that rock music is BAD in a movie ?), etc etc.Please avoid this one at all cost. "},{"Title":"I thought this was a spoof, it's that bad.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  After about the first ten minutes I almost walked out.  After that I decided that the film must be a spoof, and as such was actually pretty funny.  In fact me and my friends were laughing hysterically most of the way through the film.The acting is criminally bad, to the point of disbelief that they were intending this to be serious.The script was just ridiculous, every line a cliché from the scriptwriters handbook.  Such classics as 'I bring my fathers head as sign of my allegiance' followed by producing a head from behind him and lobbing it on the floor.  Or the other 'anyone touching the women has to come through me first'. Oh bravo, how original, how brave. Jesus!!The plot, apart from being pretty lame, was full of holes.  I mean, why was it called the scorpion king???  He gets stabbed by an arrow with scorpion poison.  Then at the end, the black guy calls him 'Scorpion King' despite, never knowing that he was stabbed with the darn arrow.  Oh, yea, that reminds me of another classic line, 'he will live, but the blood of the scorpion will forever run through his veins'.  That had us laughing for a good few minutes.If you go to see this as a serious film, then it is possibly one of the worst wastes, of time, money, effort ever contrived.If you watch it as a clever spoof it's actually very funny.  Probably a good one to watch with a few friends and lots of alcohol.  The plot's so thin you won't miss anything (apart from the hilarious script) if you go off to the loo, or start chatting.I just wish people wouldn't go watch these w**k films, maybe Hollywood (laughs) would stop making such pap.   "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  How could anyone, EVER want to see a movie that stars the Rock?   WOW...People's movie tastes make me sick.  It's embarrassing to think that some of my fellow humans actually find this crap engaging or entertaining.  How can a movie like this take you away anywhere or enable you to feel any useful or rewarding emotion?  If you pay to see this, then you degrade those movies which are truly art.  Please, help improve mankind, don't support such low level trash.  People, know that there are movies out there that are plastered on every billboard and magazine add you see, and in fact those that aren't are quite often the best.  Make some decisions for your self and support some movies with a purpose, movies that can and will mean something to you. "},{"Title":"I expected bad, but got worse!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  I didn't expect much from the start.  But there was NOTHING in this film that grabbed me.  This movie is simply atrocious!  There's absolutely no originality, the so-called plot is nowhere to be found...this film just seemed to be an hour and a half of nothing!  We just see the Rock going around killing and beating up everyone he sees, and the acting all around was also terrible.  I expected a much more serious film with SOMEWHAT of a plot/story line...but there was none of that.  Stay away from this movie.  If you must see it, save it for a time when you have absolutely nothing else to do and don't mind wasting 1 1/2 hours of your time watching garbage. "},{"Title":"The Rock needs a lot of acting classes","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie was terrible. Almost a walk out. It was very poorly put together. I thought it would be a pretty good movie, but instead i payed 7 bucks to see a pretty crappy movie. The Rock is the worst actor i have ever seen and the girl Kelly Hu is an okay actress. "},{"Title":"is this supposed to be funny?","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  i have one question... is this movie supposed to be that funny?  if it is, then great.  it was the funniest movie i have ever seen.  i mean, did the rock spent all of that money on acting lessons to learn his less than 10 lines of dialog?  it seems to me that this is almost 2 hours of cameras trying to catch the people's eyebrow as often as possible.  i hadn't laughed so hard since i'd seen supernova (another horribly funny movie).  i mean granted, he looked good, and while some movies can get away with that, this one can't.  "},{"Title":"bland action film","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Any historian foolish &#150; or masochistic &#150; enough to venture in to see `The Scorpion King' had best beware five minutes into the movie, he will be asking for his money back (the rest of us might be too, but for different reasons).  The film is supposed to be based on Mathayas, the first known ruler of ancient Egypt, which would place the story somewhere around the year 3500 B.C.  Yet, you know you're in for trouble when, in the very first scene, a character begins to recite a litany of civilizations his particular people have defeated in battle and no fewer than two of them &#150; the Babylonians and the Mycenaeans &#150; wouldn't even come into existence for another thousand years or more!  Add to this the fact that much of the film takes place in the Biblical city of Gomorrah, which if it ever existed at all would have done so a good millennium after the events depicted in the film, and the fact that the hero rides around on a camel even though camel domestication didn't occur until around 1000 B.C. &#150; and you have the makings of a real camp classic, destined to be remembered and laughed at by generations of moviegoers to come.If this sounds like nitpicking, perhaps it is.  After all, Hollywood is notorious for its shocking disregard of historical accuracy even in works set far closer to our present time than this one is.  So in that sense the sin of historical anachronism is a comparatively minor and forgivable one.  What is not so easily forgivable is the fact that `The Scorpion King' fails even on the most rudimentary level of mindless action/adventure entertainment.  Even for a Saturday matinee piece of escapism aimed at 12-year old boys, `The Scorpion King' displays a monumental lack of originality and imagination.  Dwayne Johnson (aka The Rock) gets to flex his muscles (and little else) in his first starring role, that of Mathayas, a great Akkadian warrior. In his pursuit of a sorceress who is helping a tyrannical king subdue all the civilizations in the area, Mathayas is joined by the customary accomplices and hangers-on a cowardly comic sidekick, a young boy helper (think Short Round), a beautiful, but feisty damsel-in-distress (who actually IS the sorceress), an aging, eccentric scientist &#150; even a faithful camel (in place of the more customary horse or dog) who obeys Mathayas' every command and with whom Mathayas seems to have an almost preternatural understanding.  `The Scorpion King' borrows so shamelessly from so many other better movies that one doesn't even know where to begin in listing all the examples.  There is even a `hail to Dorothy; the wicked witch is dead' finale guaranteed to elicit giggles from the audience.  With nothing new or original to say or show, `The Scorpion King' is pretty much forced to rely on its action scenes and special effects to hold the audience's interest.  Unfortunately, the stunts are surprisingly tame and the special effects often shockingly bad &#150; as when an army of man-eating ants races towards Mathayas, buried neck-deep in the sand, or when a sandstorm overtakes two armies out in the desert.  It is hard to believe that it took four writers (count &#145;em, FOUR) to come up with this script (there aren't even any good one-liners) and certainly director Chuck Russell deserves some of the blame for the fact that the line readings on the part of many of the actors wouldn't pass muster in a junior high school play or pageant (Michael Clarke Duncan is particularly egregious in this regard.  Perhaps he was hired in order to make the Rock seem more like an actor in comparison).  It's hard for me to imagine that `The Scorpion King' will emerge as the vanguard for yet another lucrative action movie franchise.  Yet, whoever went broke underestimating the taste of the vast movie going public?   Stand by for the inevitable sequels. "},{"Title":"As bad as stabbing yourself in the face","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Its a nightmare the worst casting ever everything is worst I cant believe a movie as crap as that has a sequel an anyone who likes it is wrong. Worst CGI in existence Worst acting Worst script Wrestlers shouldn't act because they are crap ACTORS I am surprised what director could have made this abomination of mankind. I am sure its worse than Batman and Robin. Just thinking of this film makes me sick. Why does it exist? Why? Why? If I could rate it a zero out of ten I would. Honestly its the worst thing I've ever seen. OH its that feeling when you see an ugly person and you cant do anything about it. This film makes me want to punch some thing. I want to punch everyone who gives it a high rating. Even a donkey could create better things than this. The soundtrack is crap as well. And its too long and painful to watch "},{"Title":"a horribly worthless movie","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I personally despise this movie and it is one of the worst movies I've seen! Everything about this movie is horrid. The acting was horrible, the attempts at humor were disgusting and the battle scene were just plain bad. The only halfway decent actor in this movie was the woman who played princess!!!! And just so you know, it is supposed an action movie with a touch of humor, not a comedy. I do not like Dwayne Johnson's acting at all but the others managed to be even worse. The stunts were very, very bad; they were poorly staged and badly executed. The parts that were supposed to be serious were just plain funny and the funny parts were awkward. I do NOT recommend it and it is a horrible prequel to a good series. "},{"Title":"A fine example of how to not make a movie.","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Here's why1. Unoriginal and predictable story (4000 years ago in ancient Egypt, a dark, tyrannic and evil war lord wishes to conquer the world. He is so bad that makes Darth Vadder look like a crying baby! He hates the human race even more than Adolf Hitler! And he possesses a vast army under his command (much greater that the Persian Army in 300!... Uuuuuuuhh, be afraid! Be very afraid! Nobody will be able to stop him!... Nobody except that strong, handsome(?), courageous and mighty warrior, the Scorpion King *ta-da!*) ...STOP COPYING STORIES!!!2. Recycled characters (does an overly muscled half-naked warrior destroying everything in his path sound familiar? How about a beautiful sorceress who falls in love with the previous one? A treacherous thief that can't prevent himself from lying every time he opens his mouth? An annoying little kid that steals a precious stone from the movies's hero? And a mad scientist that discovers powder years before the Chinese do?...) CREATE NEW CHARACTERS, PLEASE!!!3. Bad acting (Everybody sucked big time and I can't believe Michael Clarke Duncan is the same guy from The Green Mile. In some scenes, it seemed like I was watching children play at kindergarten. Ugh!) IS IT SO DIFFICULT TO FIND AVERAGE ACTORS FOR AVERAGE ROLES???4. Lousy special effects (some explosions looked like fireworks, the deaths of some of the bad guys reminded me of Bonanza and I can't find words to describe that quick sands in that cave... too bad to laugh!) IF IT DOESN'T SEEM REAL, IT ISN'T REAL!!!5. Most fights were stupid, lame and unrealistic (everybody can kill enemies that keep still waiting for being killed) The last time I watched action sequences like the ones in this movie I was at... the circus!!! IT'S BETTER TO WATCH A SINGLE REALISTIC PUNCH THAN TO HAVE TO ENDURE ENDLESS UNREALISTIC AND PAINFUL ACROBACIES!!! I'D RATTER WATCH GYMNASTICS INSTEAD!!!...in conclusion, this movie brings absolutely nothing new to the world of cinema and even less to its art. A waste of time, a waste of money and an enormous waste of patience.STOP DOING STUFF LIKE THIS!!! IT'S SO USELESS AND SOOOOOOOOOOOO BORING!The really sad thing about this movie is that the first 30 minutes aren't that bad... the rest of it could have been so much better!!! It's too bad it degenerated in a mindless comedy, predictable and sometimes even pathetic. It makes me sad...very sad... because I could do wonders with the money they spent doing this awful movie! "}{"Title":"No plot, no story...","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...and no acting. As the danish movie critic Ole Michelsen said It's awful! - That's a pretty accurate description of this movie, with but a single small highlight in the form of Kelly Hu. -A small difference, as she will not be remembered for her acting. The Rock on the other hand may be remembered, as he fills most of the front cover... "},{"Title":"Nothing special.","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Useless sequel to the Mummy films lacks the heart or humor of other movies and focuses it's attention to the character of the Scorpion King, who is fighting a rival warlord for control of the world. The action is decent but the acting is less to be desired for, and does not even fit with the mummy myth at all. It's more Conan than Mummy, and that's not what we are used do. "},{"Title":"The Rock Lays an Egg!","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  There is nothing about this movie that I can recommend at all.  I went to this movie with very low expectations.  What was delivered was even worse. Awfull acting, awfull plot, awfull story.  Not even good eye candy. "},{"Title":"mediocre","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw Scorpion King on DVD and it disappointed me very much. The story was too weak and the action was not much better than a regular Power Rangers episode. The movies 'The Mummy' and 'The Mummy returns' weren`t great either but this movie is full over stereotype characters. It wasn`t really hard for me to predict the movie`s ending after 15 minutes. All the characters a silly, especially Philos, which is a waste of Bernhard Hill`s talents. I`m still very pleased I didn`t paid $ 7 or $ 8 dollars to see this movie in theaters.Let`s hope there won`t be a sequel to this. "},{"Title":"Hecules/Xena episode with a bigger budget","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't understand how anyone could compare this to the original Conan movie. Conan the Barbarian was handled with great direction, music, and an excellent storyline. Maybe if you compare this to Conan the Destroyer, then yes I can see the similarities. Anyway, forget what you've seen with the Mummy Returns. Scorpion King tosses all rationality out the window, and is essentially a drawn out Hercules/Xena episode (with the horrible costumes included), with a lot of rock and metal and absurd dialogue from the Great One to make it look modern and cool. Hey, this reminds me a lot of Kull the Conqueror in fact. Nothing in the movie makes any sense, and when actors begin to show emotion and drama (forcing them to actually act), it becomes ridiculous. Dwayne Johnson has done better as the Rock then he does as Mathayus. Sad to say, I did expect more with this movie. I had hoped this would resemble something of Ghengis Khan (you know, how one man became a powerful and fearsome warlord) but all I got was a generic movie made with zero effort and to milk the Mummy franchise for all its worth. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie if someone else is paying...","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It has laughs.  It has action.  It has an attractive, sexy girl.  It has an attractive, musclebound guy.  And that, unfortunately, is about it.It's fairly obvious that the reason this movie has such an influx of action is because, quite simply, The Rock--for all his muscle and good looks--is not terribly gifted at acting.  And while the action sequences -are- interesting to watch, I came out of this movie not really caring who lived or who died, simply because there is so -much- action that there is no characterization at all.  I can sympathize with certain aspects of the characters--the loss of family members, the loss of homeland, etc. However, I care nothing at all for the characters themselves, because there just isn't enough about them.  There isn't nearly enough dialogue; the romance between Mathayus and Cassandra feels almost painfully-forced.Aside from that, the plot is predictable and overdone, the women are nearly all helpless idiots who race around shrieking and being generally useless, and a great many of the Action Hero Battle Comments are truly uninspired--some might say, cheesy.The Scorpion King, however, isn't necessarily a bad movie.  If someone else is paying, I'd recommend going to see it.  Once.  Maybe.  But you might want to bring your gameboy along, just in case. "},{"Title":"What a Waste of $$$","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  *** WARNING, SPOILERS AHEAD ***This is definitely one of the worst movies of the year/Flame OnI have two question about this movie.  Correct me if I'm wrong, I think the movie took place before the pyramids are built, hmm... so that's like what? somewhere around 2600 BC?  So how the hell did Chinese Gun-Powder Formula appear during that time? The Chinese did not invent the gun-powder until 700 - 800 AD, LOL... what the hell were they thinking?The second question is, when Grant Heslov (the guy who plays the horse thief, or you might remember him from True Lies) tries to touch the rock's bow, The Rock immediately grabs his hand and tells him never touch his bow, and in the scene where the rock falls into a room full of women and they all manage to steal some weapons off from him (even his beloved bow) while seducing him! I was like WTF, what kind of stupid hero is that!Oh well, /Flame Off, yeah yeah, I know what you are thinking, at least Kelly Hu isn't that bad to look at, in that kind of outfit of course.Don't waste your money to see this movie, if you really want to see The Rock, just watch him on Monday Night Raw. "},{"Title":"This movie is to great films what Dick Cheney is to great VP's","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was even dumber than a Vin Diesel vehicle. Scorpion King must rank as one of the worst acted, directed, and written movies ever made. The script and dialogue was atrocious and uninspired, and the performances no better. This movie was as illogical as the arguments for privatizing Social Security. The action scenes were unimpressive, and these were by far the best part of the film. The Mummy was a decent popcorn movie, the Mummy Returns was unnecessary, and this film was just a waste. Of course, any movie starring the Rock is going to suck, but Scorpion King didn't even meet my ridiculously low expectations.I give Scorpion King a 1/10. A true travesty. "},{"Title":"A 2-hour long wrestling match.","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I came into watching the Scorpion King with some expectation. After all, it DID hail as the prequel to the recent Mummy movies, which were personal favorites of mine. Not only that, it included two names that I have regarded with favor Bernard Hill, and Kelly Hu. Both fine actors, but neither one could save this 2-hour long wrestling match from stinking like cowsh!t. Especially with the Rock at the helm.This movie reeks with clichés; everything from plot to characters (EVEN TO THE ACTION SCENES!) seemed ripped straight from the Handbook of Hollywood Clichés. There's the muscle-bound and initially uncaring hero who miraculously decides to help the people in less than a week, there's the ultra-hot slave-girl/sorceress that we first thought was bad but who was really good, there's the eccentric old wizard type, there's the tyrannical villain, and then there's the cowardly and humorous sidekick. Good god! I'd be hard pressed to find any trace of actual WRITING in the script. I could type up something better than that with my eyes closed in ten minutes! If a movie's plot was a human body, than this one is nothing but a bare skeleton; an excuse to hang on bimbos and explosions. There are plot holes galore and plot points that are painfully overlooked, such as just how in the world Mathyus's sidekick escaped from being buried neck-deep in sand. It just happened, and it was left that way, never mentioned again. In short, this is pretty damn close to Violence the Movie. This is all not mentioning the terrible acting, especially the Rock, who seems to visually struggle with making some facial expressions other than the typical angry wrestler one. I almost cried out in agony when he gave the people's eyebrow. There's no character in Mathyus... he's just the Rock dressed up in period garb and without most of his trademark lines. Poor Bernard Hill and Kelly Hu. Being relegated to the background, they have important roles but not much to do. This is gotta be pretty sad for them because Hill actually CAN act very well (see Lord of the Rings and Titanic) but he gets less than twenty minutes of screen time in this thing. I can tell he had fun with his character and he steals every scene he's in. And Kelly Hu, one of the most under-appreciated actresses in Hollywood, fares no better. Instead of developing a serious female lead with strength and brains, she's forced into the confined role of a female lead you'd expect to find in an 80s scifi or fantasy movie. Indeed, there's practically nothing for her to do except endure the scenes where the director and producers mercilessly strip away unnecessary garments to reveal as much flesh as possible (as much as possible) and make her pose like a comic-book slut next to the Rock's bare torso.Bad special effects, B-Movie action scenes and plenty of explosions; the Scorpion King is a mindless, story-less, message's, and altogether lacking experience that one should only watch on a Monday night when you've just been fired from a job and is only two hours away from being evicted. Even then, if you're an intellectual and actual WANT to watch a good movie, skip this one. It's frustratingly pointless, with large parts given to bad actors and bit parts given to good ones. Granted, the Rock's acting has improved, but I bet he'll be glad to forget this awful excuse of a movie. "},{"Title":"A Horrible Disappointment.","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After the blockbuster hits of the Mummy and the Mummy Returns, I thought, They at least have an idea of what to do with the Scorpion King.I was wrong.The reason this movie is pretty well universally disliked is because of the lone, simple fact that the story did not detail the legend itself that was highlighted in the Mummy Returns.That was THE element of disappointment. Personally, when I went to the cinema to see this movie, I expected the same cohesion of story that we got from the Mummy and the Mummy Returns. It wasn't there. Instead, we got some crap about the guy before he WAS the Scorpion King. We got nothing of the story to which the Mummy Returns eluded. I was bitterly disappointed, and in writing this, I realize I STILL am disappointed in this movie.I don't care if it was well done, or well enacted. It was not what it should have been and therefore is a complete waste of film, in my opinion.It gets a 0.0/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"yeah, whatever...","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Have you seen bad movies yet ? This is one... Where the ancient stories are humbled with the weak humor and the worst acting ever. I watched it, still, I don't know, is this movie for adult people or for kids ? Or maybe for none of them... Stay away of it! "},{"Title":"You're better off renting Conan...","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I admit, I'm a fan of The Rock, and that's why I went to see The Scorpion King.  I know now that I should have gone to the matinee showing.  No, better yet, I should have stayed home and given myself a root canal with my Makita cordless.I had the feeling from the trailer that the film was going to be a campy, B-grade romp, and I love B-grade flicks -- my VHS cabinet at home is blessed with titles such as Wing Commander, Attack of the Killer Tomatoes, Krull, and The Fifth Element.  However, the plot in Scorpion King was so thin, the dialogue so shallow, and the acting (and directing) were so poor, that even I found the movie to be objectionable.  Only the addition of fire ants to my movie theater seat could have made me hate that experience more.The film has been aimed squarely at the 11-year-old boys of our nation. Anyone younger than that shouldn't be exposed to the (bloodless) violence, and anyone older than that will hate the empty dialogue and putrid script. The entire movie is one long string of PlayStation-esque fight scenes sewn together with an extremely feeble thread (which the writers, in their best attempt at humor, call a storyline) that does not do justice to the reasonably well put together movies also in this franchise (The Mummy and The Mummy Returns).  The Rock, who does honestly have some acting ability, tries hard to keep the film engaging, but the vapid performances of those around him remind me of the barrel full of discarded toy parts in Toy Story 2 as they reach up and drag Woody down into oblivion.I understand now why the trailer for this movie was set to the theme music from Conan the Barbarian -- this movies wants desperately to be a classic fantasy film just as that one was. Take my advice  Take the $8.50 you'll shell out on The Scorpion King and use it to rent Conan the Barbarian, Gladiator, and one of those movies from the adult section (since you'll be missing all the bikini-clad women hanging around in The Rock's world).  Then go home and enjoy some true Hollywood entertainment. "},{"Title":"Very funny Warrior, a legend on bad films.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film in a sneak preview and i have to say i go to cinema twice a week and when i saw this film i thought they want to joke. What should Stephen Sommers say about this movie, it is one of these films you can see in television when watch at late night. In Television  i would watch this film , but i paid for this film as much as i paid for Braveheart or Gladiator, i can`t believe such films get a release for cinema, but if you are bored and you got nothing to do go and risk it but i think you will have a bad conscience if you go with somebody else to watch this movie! "},{"Title":"I refuse to kid myself!","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film was bad... the only reason I went to see it and the only reason I said that I liked it was because of 3 things... 1. The Rock... I WAS a huge fan 2. The Previous 2 movies... The Mummy and The Mummy Returns were FUN!!! 3. The Soundtrack... it kicked @ss!But now that I am older and wiser... this movie sucks... IT'S TRUE!!!The plot is lame... the acting ain't so good... it was way too short... there were stereotypes and everything... and the amazon women who wear hardly anything with tanned and toned bodies was just laughable... why did THE RAZZIES! not have a field day with this movie? I don't understand... and The Rock... please... RETURN TO WRESTLING GODDMAN IT! "},{"Title":"snore","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  So bad I fell asleep during it.  The acting was downright awful.  Not that they had much to work with.  The script was a bad version of another bad film (Conan II aka Conan The Destroyer).  1960's comic books had better dialogue and character development.  For a film that was supposed to be a vehicle to make The Rock the next big action star; it proved to be the film that cemented Vin Diesel into that position. "},{"Title":"Ok, what went wrong?","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Both Mummy films were excellent but this was crap. Nothing even ties in to the Mummy movies in anyway, and manages to even contradict some of the things that were set forth in the Mummy Returns. The movie play more like a Bad Conan The Barbarian rip off than anything that was in the Mummy films. See it if you want but don't expect much.  "},{"Title":"Some things are best unseen","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Maybe The Rock should just stick to  wrestling at this point in his acting  career. Its clear movies such as this  will do little for his resume. But where  does one begin with a film so average?The story was full of holes, the action  was typical, and often times over-choreographed,  the cinematography was average, and  the sound editing was also overdone.  But then again, isn't this what people  expect nowadays. Such mindlessness  leaves little to the imagination, and its  clear, little imagination was put into this  story due to the 92-minute run time. I will state this though, at least the audience  wasn't exposed to pitiful special effects like  the two Mummy films. But then again, this  film was overdone in just about every area  except dialogue, which seemed to be limited  to things like Let's get them! Such a waste. "},{"Title":"This is the worst (hands down) movie that I've ever seen","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Too many mullets, bad action, non-existent plot, not historically correct. Granted, I'm not a fan of the genre, so don't take my personal opinion to heart. If you love this movie, good for you. The first time I saw this movie, I laughed so hard that I almost died. Not at intentional jokes, but at the poor quality of the movie. I'd advise you not to see this if you were expecting a movie with a plot. This so-called plot was painful to watch unfold as the scantily-clad sorceress pranced around with strategically placed objects in front of her, and the oh-so obvious plot turns. If you are interested purely in action, sex and adventure than this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"One of the stupidest movies i've ever seen in my life.","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" How can The Rock agree to make something so stupid and trashy is beyond me. The action is boring with really fake special effects filling in for the excitement. The acting is absolutely horrible by everybody, and the the whole story to this movie is cheesy. Chuck Russell is not the man to handle a movie like this. Stephen Sommers should've directed and wrote this movie, because it would've been as good as the first two movies. I don't think that the Rock is a bad actor at all, I just think that he picked the wrong movie to start of his acting career, and that's why his box office is not good. Avoid this movie, or you will be making the biggest mistake of your life. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of good film","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It kept me on the edge of my seat! The only reason I didn't fall off or run from the theater was because my date was my ride. If you are under 13, maybe you'll enjoy it. Otherwise this plotless, talentless, recycled wasteproduct doesn't even deserve to use up VHS tape.  "}{"Title":"Where's the action???","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't care that The Rock is being compared to Arnold.  Arnold's movies have always done well because of one thing.  A big dose of violence.  In The Scorpion King, the story wasn't special, the acting was subpar, but there was NO action.  Needless to say, I was quite disappointed with this film.  If I wanted to watch a boring movie with bad actors, I'd watch Joshua.  But that's another story... "},{"Title":"The Rock is going to become Hollywood's new action-adventurehero!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Definitely a must see! I have been waiting for this movie to come out for months, and if you loved The Mummy and The Mummy Returns, you will love The Scorpion King. Especially if you are a WWF fan. The way Dwayne Johnson handles the action scenes are incredable, and he even gives us a glimpse of The People's Eyebrow! Of course he's a great actor, wrestling is nothing but acting, and he's had years of experience. I think this movie has given him a good start and a wonderful impression to the people. He entertained the audience with his humor and had them on the edge of their seats at the same time. Plus, with a body like that who wouldnt love it?Nonetheless, The Rock is going to become Hollywood's new action-adventure hero!  "}]