[{"Title":"none of the modern spoofs are masterpieces, this one is the best","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"137 out of 149 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The days of Airplane and Naked Gun are over. Nowadays, we have the Scary Movies, Spy Hard, Date Movie, Not Another Teen Movie, etc....of all of these, Teen Movie is quite easily the best one. The point of spoofs and satires, to me, are not just to take familiar scenes and do something retarded and gross with them, but instead to actually make fun of all the things in the original movies that, while watching them, we all turned to our friends and said wait a minute, thats kind of stupid. Teen Movie does this extremely well. How many of us lucky movie fans who saw She's All That had trouble seeing why everyone in the movie thought the lead actress was ugly just because she had glasses and a ponytail? She was still a babe! How many of these teen movies give the main lead actress a friend who is clearly into her, but she always seems to ignore any possibility of romance between them, instead pursuing another character and asking for her friend's help/advice? How many people thought the characters in Cruel Intentions were just sexually over the top to the point of being absurd? Teen Movie pokes great fun at all of these flaws. It is, unlike many other movies that attempt to be like it, a true satire, taking characters and not just doing stupid things with them, but exaggerating the traits of their serious counterparts and, when it comes down to it, just making fun of them. It has surprisingly good plot cohesion while still making fun of a variety of teen movies. I suppose the best way to distinguish this movie from all other modern spoofs is that this one is truly intelligent. Sure it has some stupid jokes, and toilet humor (that I admit I chuckled at in disgust like the diarrhea scene and the lesbian kiss with the old woman), but it also has some very clever jokes, like when is it appropriate to start a slow clap, why do these teen movies seem to only have one black character, and how silly is it that things slow down for emphasis when the beautiful female lead enters the room. Please, give this one a chance. If you've seen the other modern spoofs, I'm confident you will appreciate the noticeable and subtle differences between them and Teen Movie that make the latter much more enjoyable and palatable to watch. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious!","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"111 out of 132 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I believe that perhaps a lot of the criticisms of this film come from 90's-00 teens because THEY JUST DON'T GET IT! Most of the comedy in this film spoofs 1980's movies, with a few current barbs thrown in from more recent films. I am an 80's child, and I laughed so hard during this movie! I saw it with younger kids from the mid-to-late 90's, and they didn't get half of the jokes. The school cafeteria is named The Anthony Michael Dining Hall. The school is John Hughes High School. There are send-ups of Risky Business, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Pretty In Pink, Sixteen Candles, and an absolutely priceless scene that spoofs The Breakfast Club, along with the original Breakfast Club principal, Richard Vernon, spouting almost exactly the same dialogue. Sure, there are much more recent films that are skewered, such as Varsity Blues, (which was HORRIBLE) and She's All That, (Which was EVEN WORSE.) There's an hilarious running gag spoofing Cruel Intentions, in which the slutty sister will stop at nothing to bed her brother, high school football hero Jake Wyler, who makes a bet with his team members that he can turn plain-jain, boy-hating Janie Griggs into the prom queen. Sex jokes and excrement jokes run rampant, all hilarious. Jamie Pressly, who you might remember from Jerry Springer's movie Ringmaster, is a total riot as head cheerleader Priscilla, who schemes to copy cheers from a rival school's all-black cheerleading squad, spoofing Bring It On. And the siamese twins who win Homecoming Queen(s) is an absolute riot, especially when homecoming king Jake has to share a dance with them and the band sings Put your heads on my shoulder.... TOO FUNNY! A hilarious movie, especially if you're high or drunk, and you KNOW what they are spoofing.  "},{"Title":"Certainly not a bad film","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"111 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The IMDb ranking for this film is quite harsh in my opinion. OK, this film was never going to win an Oscar, but it's enjoyable throughout and has some very good laughs in it. I'm not a big fan of teen movies but I saw this and was impressed. It's light-hearted and not afraid to appear ridiculous (infact most of the time it does this deliberately) and it doesn't pretend to be Just another teen movie, indeed it IS Not another teen movie, it's a very enjoyable laugh at the expense of those films.Don't expect your life to be changed by this film, but if you want simply a fun film to watch then you won't go far wrong seeing this one. "},{"Title":"Beyond Ridiculous, But Genuinely Hilarious.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"82 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have to say, I didn't expect much from this film. Basically Scary Movie spoofing teen classics instead of horror films. I watched it and actually liked it. Yes, this film could possibly be qualified as one of the silliest movies of the decade, but that's sort of the point. This movie had laughing so hard I was gasping for breath. The humor is juvenile, but FUNNY. The plot is stupid, but HILARIOUS. It's really fun to stop and say Hey, that 10 Things About You! or Oh, they're doing Can't Hardly Wait. This film is probably one of the funniest films I've seen in a long time, it's not for everybody, but it's a good movie. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"82 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While it fails almost as often as it succeeds, there's so much going on here I couldn't help but like it. You REALLY have to be familiar with the material being spoofed, though.  And part of the fun is ticking them all off in your mind if you're a movie geek like me.NATM has two levels and target audiences. For teens who have seen all the recent flicks, it's a direct, Mad magazine style parody. For 30 somethings like me, it's an homage to the 80's flicks. The opening scene is an obvious American Pie spoof, but in a much more subtle way, it's drawing on Sixteen Candles. To top it off, the scene is still funny even if you haven't seen either targets. Bruce (Sam Levine from Freaks & Geeks) is a parody of Seth Green's character in Can't Hardly Wait, but he's also an homage to Long Duk Dong.Several people have mentioned that kids probably haven't seen the old flicks and older people haven't seen the new ones. Well, if you're a kid, you don't need to have seen the old flicks to appreciate it as a broad parody. The 80's jokes tend to sit in the background- like the signs on the walls and the musical cues in the Molly Ringwald scene (which actually was a weak point IMO). And I've found that most people my age HAVE seen most of the newer teen movies. They came out just about the time we were starting to get married, buy houses, have real jobs. And they were a nice bit of nostalgia for our youth. Even if we didn't go pay $7.50 to see them, we've seen them on USA on saturday afternoon.It's no accident the that soundtrack is almost entirely new, young bands doing covers of 80's songs.As far as the gross-out factor goes, it's really not that bad. The filthy opening scene is forgivable because it's so dang funny. There is one gory joke on the football field. (A Lucas homage inside a Varsity Blues parody.) A sick unfunny scatalogical joke at the beginning of the movie pays off with a big laugh when it's turned around at the end. And the mother of all poo jokes is tempered by the fact that the victim is a delivering a tirade against poo jokes. And then there's granny's kiss- unfunny and nasty. But it's nowhere near the level of Scary Movie. It's also nice to see a movie like this without any gay jokes or fat jokes. (There is a fat guy, but being fat isn't the joke.) Under the filth, this is a pretty gentle movie.I avoided this when it came out, but another 30-something friend recommended it to me recently. I'd recommend it to anyone who old enough to have seen Sixteen Candles in a theatre...as long as you've seen most of the newer flicks as well.Oh...LOVED the slow clap guy!  "},{"Title":"Anti-Teen Movie Genius","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"60 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a great movie! It out does even the best of Mel Brooks films! Name one other movie that manages to make fun of over 12 teen movies at the same time and maintain plot cohesion. The only reason I wouldn't give it a 10 out 10 is because none of the story line is original to the film. All the stereotypical characters are well acted and the script keeps you laughing throughout the entire film. It is the best teen movie out there, even though it is making fun of all the rest of them. It is filled to the brim with tramps, hotties, jocks, hormone driven underclassmen, high school jargon and all the other things we have come to enjoy and loathe about teen movies. "},{"Title":"Oh, no, not another  teen movie! *pause* oh, this is actually funny? Coolness!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie, like Scary Movie, this is a parody of what the 1990's had to offer us, the romantic teen comedies! How many of them do we loathe? But how many were also great? Not Another Teen Movie makes fun of movies from the 80's to the 90's and is very clever. I saw this movie with a friend and honestly, while there are a few parts that were a little too much for me, I don't exactly dig potty humor, but there are some really funny scenes. It was fun to see someone finally make fun of the all the clichés that were rubbed in our faces the nerdy girl turning into the hot girl, clichéd characters that would never be friends but somehow are, the best friend in love with the other friend who's in love with the popular kid, you get the drill.In the stereotypical high school community of John Hughes High sexy Priscilla, a popular cheerleader, separates from her boyfriend, Jake Wyler. After Jake discovers that Priscilla is now dating strange and socially inept Les just to spite him, one of Jake's friends, Austin, suggests seeking retribution by making Janey Briggs, a uniquely rebellious girl, the prom queen. Jake attempts to court Janey's love, but faces adversity from his own sister Catherine, who is sexually attracted to him, Janey's unnoticed admirer and best friend Ricky, and memories from his past football career. Catherine eventually helps her brother by slightly altering Janey's appearance, ultimately making her more attractive to the other characters. Meanwhile, Janey's little brother, Mitch, and his friends, Ox and Bruce, make a pact to lose their virginity by Graduation even though they are still in their Freshmen year. Making fun of movies like She's All That, Cruel Intentions, American Pie, The Breakfast Club, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Drive Me Crazy, American Beauty, and Pretty in Pink , Not Another Teen Movie leaves no film left alone to show us the utter cliché that came with every teen movie out of the 90's.Like I said, there are some moments that are a little much, this is a pretty raunchy comedy, but I think it's just making fun of the in your face movies with the sick humor as well. I mean there's potty humor and hard core nudity, but I digress. There are some really funny moments in this movie, wither it was the random song the cast breaks into about their excitement for the prom or the whole introduction of the clichéd characters. The cast looked like they had a blast making this movie and I had a lot of fun watching it as well. I would recommend it for those who love satire and parodies, I did warn you though about the raunchiness, so if you have a weak stomach, you may wanna fast forward through a few parts.7/10 "},{"Title":"Funny! Funny! Funny!","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"47 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't understand why this film got such bad reviews. This is a knee-slapping riot! I have just about memorized the script. I was a teen in the 80's and grew up with John Hughes movies...Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, Pretty In Pink, etc. Not Another Teen Movie is absolutely hilarious. The high school in the film is John Hughes High, complete with the cafeteria named The Anthony Michael Dining Hall. Most all of the dialogue is priceless. There's an undercover narc who is a 70 year-old woman. The foreign exchange student is always completely nude; she explains to the principal that she is not in America to study, she just wants to be an object of lust for nerds who can not get American pussy. There are many classic bits, such as when the popular school jock, Jake, tries to woo nerdy Janie Briggs by belting out Janie's Got A Gun by Aerosmith. Jake means well, but cops attack Janie with a stun gun and scream at her to surrender her weapon. There's also a hilarious spoof of Grease in which all of the characters sing and perform a highly choreographed dance to Prom Tonight! (I'm gonna get pussy no matter what..even if it's with dirty slut!) In a wicked parody of Cruel Intentions, Mia Kirshner, as Catherine, is always trying to have sex with her brother Jake. (She wails So what if we have the same mother! Tonight I'm gonna f**k my brother!) No teen film is spared. This hilarious movie lampoons all of the classic teenage films. Slutty Catherine gets tipsy at the prom, slugging booze out of her flask, while kids look at her and say Does she go to this school? Catherine hooks up with one of the nerds and she cries as she exclaims that all she wants is for a guy to take a dump on her chest. The nerd tells her that he is shocked that no guy has ever taken a dump on her chest and tells Catherine that he would be honored to do so. I could go on and on, but trust me, NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE is HILARIOUS! Deleriously funny! And watch for Randy Quaid as an alcoholic father who loves to have sex with pies. A COMEDY CLASSIC!  "},{"Title":"Not so bad.","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the type of movie that people instantly judge because of it's popularity. Teen movies have always been considered awful by a lot of critics and a lot of movie fans. Several people are annoyed to death by teen movies and dislike the overused stereotypes that they contain. Is it that annoyance that created this movie? Most people would say it isn't, and that it's just another reason to make another blockbuster teen movie. Personally, I think we'll never know.What I know is that I went to my usual trip to the video store and picked three random movies without looking what they were. One of them were Not another teen movie. I was expecting something horrible, but it wasn't so horrible after all.I think the reason why people complained so much about this movie is that it appears to be a teen movie itself. It's very clear that the movie is made for young people who have seen the popular 80's and 90's movies. It is a parody, but certain people will tell you that it makes fun of certain classics that don't deserve this treatement. Also, they left out many other obviously bad 80's teen movies. Also.. Yes, it has bathroom humor. Yes, it has a lot of sex-related jokes.. And yes, it's full of actresses in their late 20's with big boobs pretending to be teenagers.However, I think this movie's purpose is of course NOT to be intellectual and to bash movies in a smart way. It's just meant to be funny and entertaining. Even though some of the jokes are very vulgar, it is a funny movie and it does make fun of the most popular stereotypes that you can find in teen movies. "},{"Title":"Gorgeousness and Gorgeosity made flesh!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen this movie quite a few times, and it was great to watch every time.Surely there are some scenes which can be termed corny, but they are few and invariably counterbalanced by the absolutely great ones, which are the majority.After seeing it so many times, I have come to realize that the script is the product of many years of work, and 'ripe' for making a movie of. Also, the makers of this movie have had the courage to dive into the Absurd, which is one of the most productive, though harder to understand(for some people) types of humor. This is why there are folks who didn't like it; and it's also why the title is wholly appropriate, because it has taken all the Absurd it could find in teen movies, and put it into one great work, that laughs at traditional teen movies. Excelente! "}{"Title":"Funny stuff!","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"65 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When you watch Scary Movie (which parodies... yeah.. scary movies!) the movie is pretty hilarious if you can recognize all the scenes. In Not Another Teen Movie they make fun of... you guessed it; teen movies! The only movie I've seen, that they make fun of, is Bring It On, but even though, this movie is hilarious! Yeah, sure, most of the humor is, what I like to call Pee, poo and fart humor... or down in the gutter humor if you'd like, but it works!This movie is definitely worth watching! Especially in the company of others so you can laugh each other up.WATCH IT! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie is about a popular jock named Jake who takes a bet from his friend Austin, that he can turn the school's ugliest most unpopular girl, Janey into a prom queen. But as he keeps spending time with her, he starts to fall in love. I actually liked this movie. It's funny, if you don't take the movie too seriously and dwell on the fact that it has no plot. I always love to watch this movie whenever I'm especially PO'd at the world and I just need to sit back and laugh. Some of the parts are absolutely hilarious actually. I loved how the movie made fun of other movies, such as Breakfast Club and Sixteen Candles. It's sort of like the Scary Movie movies, except maybe not as good, but still funny. "},{"Title":"Haha!","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of, if not THE, funniest films i have EVER seen! It had me and my friends in hysterics for hours!!!! I LOVE THIS MOVIE! My favourite part is the song! Hilarious! This was fantastic. Also, the gag at the start with the cake and everyone coming in...brilliant!! Catherine, Jake and Janey are awesome. Catherine is brilliantly wicked, Janey is really sweet and Jake is really fit!!! He has a great body as shown in the 'Banana Split' gag! Lol. Does anyone know where I can get the lyrics to the song? I just love it so much!!! It's brilliant. I also love the slow clap guy. He is just ace. I think this is my favourite film ever!!! "},{"Title":"Molly Takes Off","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like these sorts of movies. They seem easy to do well. Scary Movie is one I recommend and now this one as well.There are a couple reasons why. The simplest one is that I have spend a thousand dollars and hundreds of hours or so watching all the movies that are made fun of here. This one movie gives me double the pleasure of that investment.But there's something deeper. Slasher movies and their ilk are really high school movies. High school movies efficiently transport us in the first couple minutes to another world because it is not only a world defined by movies, but one that we experienced ourselves.That world, though populated by human kids, is completely artificial. Every kid is playing a role; they have to because no kid has the raw material to build a life, so they copy one. Real kids play roles. So then they go to the movies and see those same roles displayed and shaken a bit but ever so gently. Movies create life which creates movies.But modern kids (some of them anyway) and movie audiences are much more intelligent than in the past. They demand folded entertainment, movies that simultaneously engage them at the manipulative level and at the same time step outside the game and make fun of it.That's what this is. It is a real teen movie made up of bits of what went before just like all teen movies. But at the same time it is an annotation on top of that, an annotation that blows holes in every element of it. So what if the ammunition is juvenile; what else would be as effective?Unlike nearly all real high school and slasher movies, and unlike the stuff called spoofs, this movie actually has a satisfying end. What better than bringing out the big gun, Molly? What better than having her write and conduct the ending?Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Everything The Scary Movie Trilogy Lacked","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" These kids attend John Hughes High. Brilliant! This movie hit what is wrong with most teen-angst films from the 80s on. Almost every single one has a Pygmalion-esquire plot line where the geeky girl (sometimes boy) is made over so they can fit in with the elite group of rich and popular kids. They've addressed all the clichés, and how unlike high school these movies really are. Think about it, to be popular means to be liked by a lot of people. And who likes the snotty brat who thinks she is prettier than everyone else? I attended several different high schools around the U.S., and these girls exist, but they don't get named prom queen.The completely nude foreign exchange student is the only part that is a little uncomfortable to stomach (oh, the old lady lesbian kiss *shudders*) But the idea behind the character is hilarious. I wish they kept the line in the movie where Janey Briggs asks why her accent kept changing.The guy who kept slow clapping at the wrong time, and Molly Ringwald saying F***ing teenagers made the entire movie. If you love or hate teen movies, this is one you HAVE to watch. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is simply very stupid, but funny. It's pretty much the same like every other teen movie, but then even more stupid, it spoofs many teen movies like American Pie's, 10 Things I Hate About You, Cruel Intentions, Bring It On, and many more.The reason why i personally really like it is because it is unlike any other of those movies, simply because it's pure comedy, it doesn't have those sappy parts about love and friendship.Like others said though, to really enjoy this movie you should of seen quite a few of teen movies, especially the 4 i mentioned, if you haven't seen them then it's still good, but you will not get all the jokes. "},{"Title":"As dumb as you'd expect","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm pretty sure the name Not Another Teen Movie is meant ironically, since the entire film is ironic, or at least tries to be. This flick contains an absolute gaggle of d*ck jokes, so if that's what you're looking for, you're home. Occasionally, something semi-clever surfaces, like using the white dude who acts Chinese to lampoon how dumb white kids look when they try to act black. That really amused me.Other than that, it's a steady diet of low-brow humor. NATN contains parodies of countless teen movies from the last 20 years. Sometimes, they're actually funny, but other times, all they've done is recreate an old movie scene and hope you laugh from the nostalgia. So, if dirty jokes and half-baked send-ups leave you in stitches, you'll like this movie. If not, you won't. "},{"Title":"Extremely funny.","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" So awesome! The irony of this movie is the funniest thing I've ever seen. Nothing better to describe high school life. Its in my top-ten favorite movies, no doubt about that. The characters fit perfectly with the purpose of the story. I would say that all of them are brilliantly set up. On the other hand, the plot is carried on nicely even though it relates about how the life in high school is, it takes out the best and the funniest thing of it. Not only makes a funny description of high school life, it also refers to scenes and situations that occurred in other teen movies like American pie, a letter to Amanda and some others. The clever way in which the movie links with those other movies, is ironic and very funny. In my opinion, this movie reaches the level of the ones which it relates them to, and maybe in certain situations goes higher than them.Some of the quotes that appear on it i would describe them are historical, i have watched it 4 or 5 times already, it gets even better. The view is far than recommended, its obligatory, for everybody.10/10 "},{"Title":"Yes!","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'll admit it. I love spoof films. Abolutely adore them. Sure, most of the ones coming out recently aren't all that impressive, but till the early 2000s, most of them definitely had quality. Now, this movie parodies one of my most hated kind of movies i.e generic teen comedies and pulls it off very well.The jokes. Where to start? So many popular scenes from well know teen comedies have been parodied here. From the 'Eat my shorts' scene from The Breakfast Club to the opening masturbation scene of American Pie and many others in between. The film also parodies clichés seen in most teen movies like the stereotypical pointless black guy (who makes it clear he's pointless), the stereotypical slutty European girl and the stereotypical cool guy who learns his the movies lesson and realizes the error of his ways towards the end of the movie after falling in love with an unpopular chick etc. There is a lot of other humour related to typical teenage life, problems and such. And also some humour which is well, just random.I think this is a very enjoyable movie and it should definitely please you if you loathe generic teen comedies even remotely as much as I do. Hell, even if you like generic teen comedies, I think you'll find it pretty entertaining. "},{"Title":"She's Hating You For Putting Sixteen Candles In Her Breakfast Club Pie, Bueller.","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't care how many people think less of me because of it or how many roll their eyes, I really like this movie. A lot. Thanks to some highly risible releases of late (Date Movie and Epic Movie spring to mind) the spoof/parody film has taken a bit of a beating to it's reputation but this movie reminds you that if done well then you're in for a whole lot of fun.Jake Wyler (played by Chris Evans) takes on a bet to transform any girl in school into prom queen material and finds himself saddled with the task of making the impossible possible for Janey Briggs (played by Chyler Leigh), a girl judged completely hideous and socially inadequate thanks to having, ugh, glasses and a ponytail.There's not actually a lot of point in saying any more. The main plot of She's All That is simply used as a framework to hang on all manner of gags and reference related to (mainly) teen movies from the 80s and 90s. American Pie, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Varsity Blues, Pretty In Pink, Better Off Dead, The Breakfast Club and many, many more are given a nod as the gags and homages fly thick and fast.Chris Evans and Chyler Leigh are very good, and very funny, in the main roles but it has to be said that everyone does their absolute best in portraying some well-known teen movie caricatures. Jaime Pressly, Lacey Chabert, Mia Kirshner, Eric Cristian Olsen and Ron Lester, and not forgetting the three young lads who get the best John-Hughes movie-related references, are all good sports and good comedy actors with each getting at least one scene in which they can shine. And I even enjoyed seeing Molly Ringwald.Director Joel Gallen should really get to do more movies in this vein, he's more than competent and he actually shows a love for the material he's making fun of (an essential ingredient in all the best spoofs). Until then, this remains a favourite of mine even if I am in a minority.See this if you like She's All That, Scary Movie, Sixteen Candles. "}{"Title":"Funny spoof film","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rated R for strong crude sexual content and humor, language and some drug content.There are plenty of spoof movies that have been released.The most recent ones are the scary movie series and the date/epic movie series.I would say I enjoy spoof films.I really liked all the scary movies, epic movie sucked and I didn't see Date Movie or Meet The Spartans but I heard they sucked as well.I am a fan of teen films so I decided to check this one out.I must say, it was a fairly funny and good spoof of teen films from the 1980's and 90's.The plot of the film involves a jock trying to make a nerdy, un-popular girl, popular and ends up falling in love with her.The film spoofs scenes from many popular teen films such as Cant Hardly Wait,Pretty In Pink,Sixteen Candles etc.If you like spoof films, don't waste your time with crap like Epic movie, check this one out! "},{"Title":"Do it for Marty's torso!","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE will not please all viewers, and it shouldn't. If one were to like every single movie ever made, then there wouldn't be movie critics. By the way, that quote in the summary is one of the funniest lines in the movie. This movie has plenty of fun spoofing THE BREAKFAST CLUB, PRETTY IN PINK, American PIE and, the one that probably gets spoofed the most in this movie, SHE'S ALL THAT (which, by the way, wasn't all that). The party scene where the girl is walking through the house naked prompting another naked party going girl to say to her friend, Oh my god, I can't believe she's wearing the same outfit as me. to which her friend replies, It looks much better on you. I laugh all the time on that part. NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE is pure, no thinking involved, stupid comedy. But, like with SCARY MOVIE 3, I like this brainless stuff. If I was expecting to use my head while viewing this film, well, I must of been on something. If you haven't seen this movie, watch it!!! "},{"Title":"a movie for pop culture scholars","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie does a good job of skewering the incredible number of clichés that can be found in teen movies. If you've seen all the 80s Brat Pack movies and the teen movies since the 80s (Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Cruel Intentions, She's All That, Ten Things I Hate About You, American Pie, etc.), then you'll get all the jokes in Not Another Teen Movie. If you haven't seen those movies, you're missing out, and you will probably think that this is a dumb comedy and nothing else. Good farce, though, is hard to find, and while it won't change anyone's life, Not Another Teen Movie filled an empty slot in pop culture, and did a good job of it. If you love movies and (like me) have seen far too many of them, Not Another Teen Movie is really very enjoyable and, in a way, quite smart. "},{"Title":"Stupid but Hilarious","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I usually don't even watch teen flicks, but I've caught this one several times now on Comedy Central, and it is often just off the wall hilarious. If you can't laugh at yourself, don't bother with this movie because I think we can all recognize in this movie stupid things we did as teenagers.Plus, none of the really cool kids come off as having it all together. Everyone in this movie is a total exaggeration of a stereotype, the movie is one mock scene after another of some teen movie that took itself too seriously, this movie in no way takes itself seriously, and that is why the movie works.If your in the mood for a couple of hours of juvenile stupidity - this movie is not a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Good shot!","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I avoided seeing this film for some time. Why? I don't know - but I just recently watched it and I enjoyed it. Though it had bland, boring moments - overall the film was funny and did a good job poking fun of Teen movies.The musical number was probably one of my favorite parts. Along with the whip-cream bikini Chris Evans donned. Funny stuff! And of course, Molly Ringwald's scenes...by far the best part of the entire film. It was good to see her mocking the teen scene which she helped build in the 80's.Poking fun of movies such as Never Been Kissed, She's All That, Varsity Blue, Pretty in Pink, Ten Things I Hate About You and a list of others...NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE was fun, hilarious (sometimes) and overall brain dead fun - sit back and enjoy! "},{"Title":"It helps if you've seen all of the movies it mimics.","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I hate it when people make comments about these sorts of films saying that the story line is loose or vague or it has no real plot. The only reason for these films to have any sort of plot is to direct the jokes. I believe this films primary purpose is to make the viewer laugh and it does so in abundance. I went to see the film with an open mind not expecting to be blown away with a fantastic performance from the lead character or be intrigued by its deep and complex story line - its a light hearted no-brainer that does its job.I think the problem most people have with this film is they haven't seen many of the films it spoofs which in turn would make it very unfunny. However it captures the essence of all teen movies and all the characters (although supposed to be from one movie or another) can be recognised in any of the teen movies.It was always going to be a difficult task to include a good array of characters and movies to spoof but I believe director Joel Gallen has done a pretty decent job. Watch it with your mates and few beers!  "},{"Title":"Sucks for you if you didn't *get* this movie spoilers","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Contrary to popular belief, this movie wasn't really targeted at younger audiences. It thoroughly skewers everything from The Breakfast Club to Bring It On to Can't Hardly Wait. They even used the same classroom. For those of us who slogged through the Brat Pack movies in our twenties, and now must endure the latest crop of teen movies aimed at our kids, nephews and nieces, it was a hilarious breath of fresh air, as nothing was left sacred. Yes, it was crass, foolish and blatant... but executed with a panache that, if you missed it... well, then either you weren't really paying much attention to the movies it was poking fun at, or you've got some weird emotional attachment to those sentimental 80's flicks.I'm amused at the amount of whining from commenters complaining that it parodies many movies that, didn't take themselves seriously and therefore didn't deserve it. What a bunch of babies. Admittedly, some of the humor is way over the top vulgar, far surpassing anything seen in the American Pie series. It's up to you if that's a good thing or a bad thing.My favorite quote, from the leader of the Cheer-ocracy Oh, it's already been buh-roughton, complete with the jutting chin and head waggle.  "},{"Title":"Cheap pokes and good Jokes","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We have all seen american pie 1 and 2, road trip, can't hardly wait, election, 10 things, cruel intensions, varsity blues and so on.But the general population of the audience would not have seen she's all that, pretty in pink, and the other movies in the 70's to 80's. Besides from that this new brand of teen movie, provides laughs around every corner, and the more you watch it the more funny it is.This film completely pokes holes in classic teen movies, for example billy bob with bacon the pig from varsity blues is reggie ray and sausage the pig you get what i mean.very strong acting from Chris evans and Jaime Pressly.the reason why some people are over critical is because that these people would not of got the jokes because the lack of knowledge of teen movies.And like it says in the trailer if you have seen scary movie, who gives a.... that is exactly right, this movie far outbeats the latest installments of teen movies by far.A definate must see for fans of teen flicks.i will give it a 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"oh yes, this is beautiful","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having seen 16 Candles, Pretty In Pink, Ferris Buelers Day off, The Breakfast Club and just about every film John Hughes ever made, I was able to appreciate this movie for all that it really is and make comparisons with the original. Absolute hilarity from the very beginning as it takes of 16 Candles except everybody remembers when, in this case, she would have wanted them too forget.(Vibrator incident) What follows is a slant on everything Hughes ever made We are all just one big group here at John Hughes High, now everybody break off into smaller groups, take a good look at the people next to you, they will be your only friends for the next 4 years. this movie made me laugh and laugh, I dont know how some of my friends who haven't seen any Hughes movies except for Ferris Buellers Day Off would find some parts funny, but thats what you get for not watching fine movies, Human recastranant!!! Score 9/10 (lost 1 point for the grandma kiss and the fact it didn't rip on Some Kind of Wonderful) "},{"Title":"a hilarious spoof, while still being a movie in its own right","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie heralds back to the days of spoof movies such as 'The Naked Gun' or 'Fatal Instinct'.  It runs the gamut of teen movies, and takes the p*** out of all of them, but at the same time manages to maintain its own storyline.The performances are well above average - sometimes better than some of the real teen movie performances.  Even though the characters are simply teen movie formula templates, they still generate enough pathos for the audience to connect with them.The humour itself still remains fairly puerile, but not enough to be classified as a 'gross out comedy'.  Unlike 'Scary Movie', not all the humour in 'Not Another Teen Movie' is visual, or pertaining to bodily fluids (not that there isn't a fair share of that!)  And the movie references are extremely well done, without being totally insulting to the movie itself.On the whole, 'Not Another Teen Movie' is one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time, not just as an over-the-top farce, but as a genuine, well-written film that just happens to be a mad spoof at the same time. "}{"Title":"Another great teen spoof!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie is another one of those spoofs that tries to make the audiences laugh for making fun of other teen movies in the past.  Eventually, it made me laugh all the way.  Not Another Teen Movie makes fun of popular teen hits such as American Pie, The Breakfast Club, She's All That, American Beauty, Varsity Blues, Clueless, 10 Things I Hate About You, Pretty In Pink, etc.  The school's name, John Hughes High School, was a cool name because back in the 80's, Hughes made some funny teen movies that are now popular today.  I even liked the chracters names, like The Token Black Guy, The Bitchy Cheerleader, The Foreign Exchange Student (she walks around completely naked throughout the whole movie), The Stupid Fat Guy, and lots more.  All in all, it's a funny movie.  If you're in need of a good laugh, then Not Another Teen Movie is the movie for you.Grade A *****1/2 (out of ****** stars) 12/13 "},{"Title":"So funny!","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is about a very popular hunk in high school and a cold rebellious girl in high school.Not Another Teen Movie is so funny, it is actually much better than my expectation. The jokes are wildly funny, and it does not even need to rely on grossed out toilet humour. I particularly like the scene involving the staircase, which is absolutely crazy. Another scene which parodies Cruel Intentions involving two ladies is hilarious and yet has this mysterious tension to it. Mia Kirshner does a great job in portraying this vicious and calculating lady. Not Another Teen Movie is a great way to spend an evening with your brain off. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly hilarious","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I avoided this movie like the plague back when it came out -- I just assumed it was going to be awful, as by the early 2000s spoof movies were in serious decline. But I finally gave it a go here 7-8 years later or whatnot, and I have to say that I missed out. There HAVE been a ton of really terrible spoof movies in recent years -- the whole Epic Movie/Date Movie crew, what's left of the Wayans brothers etc. -- but this one was really quite funny. It steals its plot from the ridiculous She's All That, but manages to take shots at the silly clichés from almost every teen movie of the last 20 years (or at least the 20 years before this one came out). Its often clever in its parodies, but its also raunchy as hell, which is either a plus or a minus depending on how delicate you are. As I am pretty much impossible to offend, it was a big plus, and let the movie just go for things that a little kiddie PG-13 film would never have dreamed of touching.No time for being snooty or prissy with this one -- just sit back, leave your pretentiousness at home, and have a good laugh at the mayhem. Not as good as the classic ZAZ team spoofs, but maybe the best since they went their separate ways. "},{"Title":"What the hell, this one's actually funny","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It has been quite a while ago since I saw a parody this funny, it's like this one actually had writers. This movie kinda mocks every movie with teens in it ever made and does a fine job of it. Till it gets near the ending, because the Molly Ringwald cameo is just really not funny and doesn't work. The rest of the movie however, is a hilarious collection of stupid obvious jokes. You know which gag is going to appear where, but you still laugh for some reason. The most important thing about a parody is to at least stick to one story. Even if it is the absolute least serious movie ever made, don't make the plot go everywhere. And if there's time write some funny jokes too. It makes the crazy amount of references seem very spontaneous. For a recent spoof this is pretty impressive. "},{"Title":"Not Another Airplane! formula movie!","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is very much like Airplane, and almost as point-on as the granddaddy of all over-the-top parodies. Not Another Teen Movie fills the need to poke fun at the teen genre, and does so by lampooning the last twenty years of teen films, from The Breakfast Club all the way to Bring It On. Molly Ringwald is even dug up for a solid cameo that links two generations of ridiculous teenagers on film.The movie's greatest strength is that despite it being so ridiculously over the top, you realize that the teen movies parodied were quite ridiculous in their own way. To that extent, each spoof casts a farcical light on a serious movie that we realize, perhaps again, perhaps not, was difficult to take so seriously.What the movie lacks in originality, it more than compensates for in execution of a good formula. The cast does not particularly stand out (except for a humorous cameo by Mr. T poking some fun back at Eddie Murphy), but in a way that's also good because there are no stars obscuring the material, which shines. The jokes are threaded together by what passes for a decent plot in its own right, with the plot itself a parody of...not another teen movie.This movie is a must-see, since you'll always wonder what they did until you see it. You'll likely be impressed. "},{"Title":"Hilarious parody!!","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some people will go into this movie and criticize it for being well.....stupid. But it is supposed to be. It is a parody, the whole point of this movie is to make people laugh. It is full of stupid and idiotic scenes that are there just to bring out a chuckle. If you go into the movie not expecting it to win any sort of Oscar for serious acting then you will probably be pleased with the results. It mocks many scenes from classic teen movies such as pretty in pink and breakfast club (really it pokes fun at all John Hughes movies by either referencing to them and pretty much copying exact scenes). Then it took stuff from newer movies such as She's All That, Cruel Intentions, Never Been Kissed, etc, etc. If you were a fan of the Scary Movie's line then you will enjoy this also. "},{"Title":"did you grow up in the 80's?? Then watch this movie!!!","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As a child of the 80's, I must say that this movie had me laughing out of my seat!! The other reviews sound to me like they were from people who didn't grow up with John Hughes movies!! Pretty in Pink, Breakfast Club just to name 2 of the famous Johm Hughes movies that were hysterically re-made in this movie....and the high school?? It was named John Hughes High..lol! I have seen this movie well over 10 times (and am a proud owner of the DVD) and every time I watch it, I find something that I overlooked the other times.. This movie was great!How can you NOT love this movie?? As a mid 30's soccer mom and growing up in the 80's, this movie was fantastic and my 40 year old husband agrees w/ me) "},{"Title":"Humor for the Gen-X'ers","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For those of us who grew up with the John Hughes timepieces of the 1980's (and loved them as kids), and got a laugh at the wanna be Hughes films that tried to capture their magic (and failed) in the 1990's, this is a perfect spoof to enjoy. This one pokes good fun at all the Brat pack movies, plus a whole lot of others in the process. The gross out humor is alright, but the real humor is in the subtle details (Anthony Michael Dining Hall, a short as heck first half of a football game, Harry Dean Stadium, love me etc). Those who trashed it are either not appreciative of slapstick, too young to get it, or went in thinking this movie was going to be another On The Waterfront. Its hysterical, mindless and a lot of fun. Best of all it leaves nothing in reserve. Its in your face from start to finish. Lighten up, have a few laughs. "},{"Title":"Lighten Up! This was funny!","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot believe how funny this film was. I have to admit, I hate most teen movies and I believed this movie would suck. However, I was wrong, this movie was a blast. Incredible comedic performances, great music, sick jokes, and tons of parody. Moreover, I have to admit, it was downright clever. And yes, sick, crude humor can be clever. All of these holier than thou types can blast it all they want and remark about how it was not equal to American Beauty. Well, that is fine, but who are these morons that expect this thing to be Citizen Kane? It is a screwball comedy, relax and enjoy it. If you watch this and don't prejudge it, you will enjoy it, otherwise, there is something wrong with you. However, I do admit that it does push the envelope in certain scenes and it is for mature audiences, that like immature movies (lol). "},{"Title":"An excellent spoof","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Weather you grew up in the 80's watching John Hughes films (most of which are classics) or more recently watching movies like She's all that, Never Been Kissed, Clueless, etc. they all get sent up in this great, hilarious spoof. Because some of the humor is raw certain scenes may not be for everyone, but if you can handle a little raw humor you'll definitely find enough laughs in this movie. It's non stop funny. I totally enjoyed watching the kids at John Hughes High School, and just as a side note for any fans of the aforementioned writer/director you'll get a kick out of the cameo of one of his frequently used stars in the airport scene. "}{"Title":"about 50% of the jokes work...","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... but it's still worth it.It often depends on your gross out factor. The two women kissing or the toilet scene... to cite the black guy this is whacked!I liked the first scene with the vibrator going wild or the black guy announcing himself as I'm just here to say things like 'damn', 'shit' and 'this is whacked' and using exactly these three phrases as some girl describes her sex life. -))So it's often good for a laugh and not a total waste of time.BTW Cute girls... "},{"Title":"Raunchy but funny","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" By and large I'm not a big fan of spoof movies &#150; they tend to get silly and stupid and usually have one really good laugh that is spoiled by being in the trailer (which they sort of have to do or you wouldn't go, but that's the point). I missed this one when it came out, though I really should have seen it because I'm still a sucker for a well-done teen flick. But I caught it last week on TV, when it was heavily abridged; while I thought it was funny, I wanted to see it in the way it was intended it, so I rented it and took a look.Not Another Teen Movie is absurdly funny in spots. It pokes fun of movies from the John Hughes 'classics' of the eighties up through movies like Bring It On, She's all That, Cruel Intentions, and so on. The premise is mostly stolen from She's All That witchy cheerleader Priscilla (Jamie Pressly) dumps jock Jake (Chris Evans) and his callous (and especially stupid) friends make him a bet that he can't turn an ugly duckling into a swan. Enter Janey (Chyler Leigh), who like every girl in these movies is actually very pretty but here hides it behind glasses and a ponytail. Jake has to transform Janey into prom queen material, which he attempts to do with the help of his extremely disturbed sister Catherine (a skilled parody of Sarah Michelle Gellar from Cruel Intentions, handled well by Mia Kirshner) Along the way they encounter every stereotype from every teen film, from the horny younger brother (Bring It On's Cody McMains) to the bitchy pretty girls, to parties, the prom, the big finale, the pining best friend, and so on. Just about every cliché is touched on, some with more wit than others.The movie is also exceedingly raunchy. There's gratuitous nudity (one foreign exchange student never actually wears anything at all), a lot of swearing, and an awful lot of bathroom humor (some of it literal). There are also a number of fun cameos from a few of the actors who starred in the eighties film (the teacher from The Breakfast Club, for example), including a surprise at the end that's incredibly funny. Not Another Teen Film isn't brilliant comedy, and sometimes it tries too hard (or like in the parody of the kissing scene between Sarah Michelle Gellar and Selma Blair from Cruel Intentions, it goes way too far), but there are some really good laughs sandwiched between the raunch. The movie manages to consistently elicit chuckles, and it's certainly worth a look for those of us who grew up on these films twenty years ago or still enjoy the new crop being churned out. "},{"Title":"Spot-on parody","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Contemporary movie parodies are, at best, a mixed bag. In most cases they're slapdash affairs hurried out to ride the coattails of a particular film or fad. If you've had the misfortune of watching any of the films by Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer ('Epic Movie', 'Meet the Spartans', 'Date Movie' etc.) then you know what I mean. Thankfully, 'Not Another Teen Movie' transcends the genre.Filled with clever gags and character archetypes that gently prod the teen movie genre of the 80s-90s, 'NATM' is a funny, sometimes hilarious send-up. The cast is absolutely wonderful, fearlessly going for every laugh with gusto.If you like the teen movie genre, make a date with 'Not Another Teen Movie'. I promise it won't stand you up. "},{"Title":"A laugh riot.","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie kills me. It always has. The jokes are really funny and well timed. It doesn't go too over-the-top, and it gets better every time I watch it. This movie has a lot of the little things that go a long way to make it great. The performances are spot-on. The dialogue is snappy and clever. The pace is fast and the references spot-on.The girls in this movie are also wicked hot. The sister is out of control hot. Just blazing.If you review this movie and say that it's garbage, then you probably eat apples and complain that they don't taste like oranges. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a GREAT MOVIE!!! Chris Evans was great, and he did an Excellent job of playing Jake! All of the stars were alive and funny, for example The Token Black Guy was a great and funny actor! Also, The Pretty Ugly Girl lives up to her name she's pretty as the normal Janey Briggs, but as the ugly Janey Briggs, she is ugly with the Glasses and a ponytail. And don't forget about the paint covered overalls. The Perfect Girl was the perfect girl! SHE'S HOT! The Cocky Blond Guy was a BIG cock! (As in really weird and stupid) The Stupid Fat Guy, however, wasn't stupid. BUT WHO CARES! That didn't stop the movie from being funny as hell! And i say if Janey's dad was on the video box he would be The Drunk War Surviver***Bottom Line The Movie Was Funny!***  "},{"Title":"Not your father's teen movie.","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie.  Comedy, let alone good parody, is difficult to master.This film is a great lampoon of teen movies from the last twenty years The Breakfast Club, Pretty in Pink, Cruel Intentions, She's All That, Can't Hardly Wait, American Pie... and that's not all of them.  The writers manage to weave the film parodies into a standard teen movie storyline that delivers serious laughs.  Heck, there's even a fabulous musical number.The cast does a fantastic job of adapting to the previous actors' portrayals of the characters they're spoofing (the best of them all being Mia Kirshner as The Cruelest Girl).There are a few moments where the gross out humor goes a bit far, but the moments pass by quickly, so if can bear it for a moment, you'll be pulled right back into the general comedy in no time.If you like parody and teen movies, check it out.7/10 "},{"Title":"This is the best comedy i've seen in years","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has made me laugh so hard, i started coughing and almost coughed my lungs out.  First let me say that the movie has a ton of crude and distasteful humor which i could certainly do without, however no matter how crude or distasteful that humor might be to myself it is still neccessary. Why?  Because what i find funny somebody else may think is stale.  Granted most people find a scene where a toilet that has erupted feces all over a classroom is too much.  However maybe there is still the ever watchful 3 percenters out their that need a quick fix, and managed to giggle when they saw it.  So all i'm really saying is that the movie covers all bases(caters to the whole audience and keeps everybody entertained).  They have mild humor(The kind that watches cheers,cosbys,roseanne, and friends) and excessive humor(The kind of audience that only appreciates MTV's jackass,beavis and butthead).  Now that being said, I think the movie was better than awesome.  It was a single achievement in that it successfully made fun at every teen flick from the span of the 80's till today.  It was an extremely funny piece of work.  I am really impressed with the actors and actresses, because they played their parts perfectly.  Trust me there is no movie to date that even comes close to pulling off what this movie did. This movie damn well deserves a sequel, and i don;t mean straight to video either.  This should have gotten the comedy of the year award.  Scary movie 1 was good.  Scary Movie 2 was better.  NATM eats them for breakfast.  "},{"Title":"Funny...Only If Not Taken Seriously","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very entertaining and funny.  I admit at times some of the scenes were just plain gross but this movie was meant to be a stupid movie that makes fun of the Teen Movies out there like She's All That, 10 Things I Hate About You, Cruel Intentions, American Pie...etc.  Although some of the scenes over exaggerated the original movie...it was quite a laugh-fest.  (POSSIBLE SPOILER)  I had two parts in the movie that really stands out in the movie 1)The Classic rendition of Janey's Got A Gun evolved from 10 Things I Hate About You was so funny!  And the police shocking Janey was just great!  2)The musical sequence before the prom was funny because when the song ended, the cast is just standing in a pose...looking around if the song really did end and their poses start to wobble....that is genius!  BOTTOM LINE Great movie.... not to be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"Know Your Stuff","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The promos for this movie make it seem really cruddy, but it really is an amazing movie.  If you don't think it's funny, you haven't seen enough of the movies it parodies.  To really appreciate & enjoy the wittiness of the film, you have to be very caught up with all the teen movies of the 80s and 90s.   "},{"Title":"Stupid at times but at other really funny!!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was expecting it to be another dumb movie that I would forget about within a week,but surprisingly,it was really funny and enjoyable!Even though there is alot of nudity most of it is all in good humor.I would recommend it to people who whant to a dumb but funny move. recommendyes "}{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie, thinking it would be another sex-poop-dumb jokes- sketch show à la Scary Movie. I was wrong. This won't become one of the great comedy classics, but it's the best parody of teen movies I've seen so far. Unlike in Scary Movie, the parody is actually clever, and there is great attention to detail. The movie mocks the original teen films, not their audience. For example, the movie doesn't make fun of ugly girls, but rather the stereotype of an ugly girl in teen movies. The Cruel Intentions parody was my favourite, along with the American Beauty weird guy character. They were done really well. Some of the jokes, like the pie joke from American Pie, could have been left out though - reusing jokes from the original movie is not very creative. The whole we have to have sex before the term is over-thing, on the other hand, was done well, as the boys making the pact in this movie were 13. They were really cute. There are, of course, bad moments too. What bugged me the most were the constant dirty jokes - how many times can you laugh at an oral sex reference? It gets old really fast. The poop scene was appalling, not funny. But there aren't too many scenes like that. All in all, a decent, funny comedy. With some more work on the story, taking out a few sex jokes and other dumb gags, it would have been a really good movie.  "},{"Title":"Damn Funny","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a work of genius (maybe a little over exaggerated). I found this movie to be quite funny overall, but aside from the obvious spoofs, the attention to detail was great. It was less making fun of the teen movies than paying homage to them, or at least the better ones. For me, this movie was elevated from an average gag comedy to a whole other level. The small off screen remarks, like when Jamie Prestley's character poured the water on Janey and someone yells that's gonna stain! or at the prom when they announce prom king and someone yells Marty! They're everywhere in the movie and they just add to what is happening on screen. The awkward moments shared by character's such as Jake and Janey's attempted kiss in the basement, and Austin's realization that something he said didn't quite make sense ... tell her a little s-e-c-r-a-t...p Then after the musical number (another fantastic sequence) everyone is posed for the scene to end, but they're standing their, legs wobbly, waiting for it to be done, looking to see if everyone else is still going. BRILLIANT!For those of you lucky enough to get the humor appreciate what this movie does, I highly recommend Wet Hot American Summer and Pootie Tang and to a lesser extent Super Troopers and SlackersFor those of you who don't get it. It's your loss.  "},{"Title":"I liked it. . .","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" . . .I don't know why a lot of people didn't. It's not to be taken seriously, and it does make fun of the movies the exact same way, but I enjoyed myself.One reason it probably wasn't liked was because not everyone has seen all (or most) of the teen movies, but I have. The acting (of course) is nothing special, it's offensive, it's stupid, bad script, bad acting, bad directing, which is exactly why I love this movie! Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Funny!! Like The Simpsons, a well cultured viewer required","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it is true that if you are a prude, you will not enjoy this movie. Given the number of people this movie offends, apparently there are a lot of prudes out there.  What a shame!!If you are not a prude, you have good potential for enjoying this movie. To truly appreciate Not Another Teen Movie, however, requires a dedicated movie-goer of films of the last twenty years.  That, and a sharp eye. There are so many references to other movies it would take pages to list them all as there are often multiple references in each scene. In one cafeteria scene a hot dog cart advertises, Hot dogs for practicing blow jobs and in another there is a Save Ferris banner in the background.  Don't forget the Will support the weight of 2 adolescent boys sign on the air vent, providing humor in the stupidity of its presence as well as foreshadowing.The DVD kept us busy for almost five hours.  Impressive for a movie that is not even 90 minutes long.  And someone had the gaul to claim it a long movie!This is a fabulously funny movie with wit and intelligence and plenty of toilet humor to boot.  Admittedly, there are a couple scenes that are over the top, and in the DVD it is interesting to learn that the writers were against those, but they made the cut anyway.  That, and the DVD has 14 deleted scenes! In the commentary it is remarked that there are almost more deleted scenes than scenes actually in the movie.Bottom line, you can't be prude or have watched few movies to enjoy Not Another Teen Movie.  If you like satire, toilet humor, gratuitous nudity, cameos, have an attention to detail, and have seen many of the teen movies over the past twenty years, this movie will keep you in stitches for about 87 minutes.Lastly, hasn't anyone out there seen Grease?  Sheesh!! =) "},{"Title":"Parody works sometimes and fails others","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A parody of all those teen movies ranging from Sixteen Candles to American Pie.  Jabs are taken at everything...the cheerleaders of Bring It On, the kids of She's All That, the pyscho coach from Varsity Blues, Ducky from Pretty in Pink, Can't Hardly Wait, Risky Business, 10 Things I Hate About You, Grease, The Breakfast Club, Cruel Intentions, Can't Buy Me Love, American Beauty, Almost Famous, and there are small in joke references to Fast Times at Ridgemont High and Ferris Bueller's Day Off as well, along with an homage to Porky's...Overall, not a bad film though some of the jokes go beyond vulgar. "},{"Title":"Not at all the worst film of 2001","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not another Teen Movie may not have ben the Cassblanca of our day, but it wasn't as bad as critics make it out to be.Not another teen movie is a parody film.  It makes fun of every movie with a teen in it.  Come on, how many movies can put American Beauty and She's all that on the same basis.  I thought it was hilarious.  The Almost Famous parody made me cringe, it wasn't needed, but the Grease take off?  That had me peeing in my pants!  I thought they would forget about that movie!The acting was wonderful!  No doubt about it!  Props to the casting agent! My personal favorite was Sam Huntington as Ox, who did a very impressable job as the most sensitive guy on Earth, a.k.a. Chris Klien's American Pie charactor, Oz.  I think he deserved more scenes.  Jaime Pressly did a spectacular job playing Precilla, the nasty cheerleader.  She may have been cast to play herself.  Chris Evans did an equally wonderful job as Jake Wylers, the lovable jock.  Chyler Leigh is gorgeous as Laney Briggs, the pretty ugly girl.  Rob Lester does the unspeakable, makes fun of his Varsity Blues charactor, but does a great job!Overall I think this movie was a good laugh!  It lacked plot but, I wasn't looking for a story!  Scary Movie didn't have a story!  And one thing I could do without were the nude women scenes!  But there is a little male nudity, one I would have rather NOT seen, and the other, oh it was great! I would reccomend this movie to somebody under 25, and with a sense of humor! "},{"Title":"Ignore harsh out of touch critics, this one ain't so bad.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wish people who've seen Not Another Teen Movie would just lighten up. This movie has some great moments.  It ain't cinema baby, but the 2nd half especially will have you laughing out loud if you just take your critic blinders off for a second.  I felt the same way when I watched Freddy Got Fingered, far from the worst movie of the year.  Plus, there is a generation out there, of which most reviewers are not a part, (and neither am I) who go to these movies, get them, enjoy them, talk about them, and can't wait for the next one.  The Mr. T speech, the song, the closing at the airport, the quick albino scene after the credits finish, are good solid laughs.  It's like people who go to McDonald's and complain about the menu and ambience. You know what you're going to get, either go or don't. "},{"Title":"This movie is really awesome","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is really good.  Now I don't have anything against Scary Movie, because before this movie, scary movie was probably my favorite movie of all time but I have seen that movie like 15 times so here comes Not Another Teen Movie and I was crying I was laughing so hard.  I really can't believe they got away with so much stuff.  Scary movie got away with a lot of stuff to but this movie is like 3 times worse in the stretching it than scary movie. I can honestly say that this movie is probably one of my favorite movies of all time.  It's really clever, dirty, and lots of good gags. ) "},{"Title":"Watch the movie from a different perspective","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It seems as though all the complaints about this movie include the excess of dick and fart jokes and also the plotless nature of the film.  Furthermore, most of the so-called critics here on this board are all adults commenting on the lack of intellectual subject matter in the movie.Wake up!  There aren't any!  Parody movies are only negative if they hurt the integrity of the movies that they parody.  The parodied movies that still have integrity (The Breakfast Club, American Beauty, Almost Famous, and Grease) were not done insultingly, so there really is no reason to criticize.  The intellectually devoid movies which were parodied (i.e. any movie with Freddie Prinze, Jr., Jennifer Love Hewitt, and James Van Der Beek) had no substance anyways, and I feel that Not Another Teen Movie was put on more interestingly than all of these movies combined (except American Pie, but that's a guilty pleasure of mine).Another factor criticized were the cameos by Brat Pack actors, epitomized by Molly Ringwold.  So her career was made by teen movies, so what?  She's past that now, and she is just poking fun at that which made her famous.  I see nothing wrong with exorcising the demons of the past onscreen, because it helps deliver the message which the movie is trying to offer.  Melissa Joan Hart and Sean Patrick Thomas are there to deliver lines that show how ridiculous the spoofed movies really are.  The whole Breakfast Club scene was brilliant and very precise, and the whole wall reading Weird Science was an added joke many people might have missed.Next, let's not rip into the music please.  So a punk/emo band (Good Charlotte, more specifically) redid a bunch of 80s songs.  Is that a mistake?  At least they left all the old music and theme songs in the movie. Hearing a remake of Don't You Forget About Me was the brightest spot in the movie for me.  Also, I loved the American Pie and American Beauty music being in the movie (where appropriate) because they are two of my favorite tunes from movies.  It wasn't like teen movies where huge rock bands debut their new songs at the backdrop of a party.  They kept the originals, respectfully.Another frequent criticism I hear is that many of the teens who will see this movie may miss the 80s (and before) references.  This is highly untrue. I went with a group of my teenage friends (I'm 18 by the way), and we recognized the Pretty in Pink, Sixteen Candles, Breakfast Club, Grease, Fast Times, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, etc. references.  So to claim that all of today's teenagers are uncultured and uneducated would be misconstruing a whole culture.  So teenagers, I'm sure you will love this when you see it, and adults, free your mind, think back to when you were a pubescent teenager, and just sit back an enjoy a collage of both good and bad movies put together into one ball of scenes.It's not quite Mel Brooks' Spaceballs (another 80s reference), but it is better than Scary Movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny movie","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must say I was impressed with a movie I'd originally considered boycotting. Before I'd seen it, I had three problems with the movie 1) The advertising looked so much like Scary Movie's that it felt like a ripoff (a ripoff of a parody, that's interesting); 2) I'm a hardcore teen movie fan and was too sensitive to the criticism; and 3) The trailers didn't look all that funny. I relented, though, partially because I really wanted to see a movie or two this weekend and partially because I realized that if I loved both Scary Movie and Scream, why can't I love Not Another Teen Movie (of course I did go into Scary Movie with anticipation because I wanted the other scary movies to be parodied to death, but still). Also I heard about the gratuitous amount of nudity in the film, and that clinched it (I'm sounding more and more like a cliche'd teen movie fan by the minute).Anyway, it was a very funny movie throughout (I coulda gone without the toilet scene, but other than that) and really seemed to be made by people who were actually fans of the genre as weird as that sounds. And not just the recent teen movies, but dating all the way back to Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Risky Business, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Grease and the John Hughes Brat Pack movies. There was a scary level of attention to detail with little things like the names of buildings (the students go to John Hughes High and eat in the Anthony Michael Dinining Hall) to the constant use of music from the movies (off the top of my head, I'm thinking about the frequent use of Don't You (Forget About Me) from the Breakfast Club and the cover of Somebody's Baby from Fast Times at Ridgemont High (I started laughing my ass off as soon as I heard that one coming on)). There was also quite a few people from those teen movies on hand, whether in obscure roles (Ferris Bueller's dad shows up briefly as a dad and the teacher who ran the detention (and lead villain) in the Breakfast Club reprised his role for that scene, Bogey Lowenstein from 10 Things I hate about You played the Slow Clap guy) to more important roles like Billy Bob from Varsity Blues playing the same character only stupider as Reggie Ray or Molly Ringwald (teen queen of each and every John Huges film from Sixteen Candles to Breakfast Club to Pretty in Pink) showing up in a pivotal role at the end of the movie. Oh, and I should mention, the movie was funny as hell. Really funny parodies and some unique little twists (who would've expected Mr. T to show up in a movie parodying teen flicks (as an aside, though, I don't know if Rudy, is really a teen flick). Very funny movie. "}{"Title":"Hilarious Spoof (If You Have A Sense Of Humor)","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One has to wonder if many of the people who have writtennegative reviews or comments about Not Another Teen Movieactually even bothered to see it, or simply, as they would have it,suffered through the trailer just so they could cite a scene or twoas they went forth in righteous indignation and trashed the film ongeneral principles.Not Another Teen Movie is hysterically funny and on the mark with95% of its gags - IF you like this kind of movie to begin with.  If youdon't like spoofs or teenage movies or off-color comedies, thenyou have no business even seeing this flick, and you should knowbetter, because it certainly doesn't pretend to be anything otherthan what it is.It was appalling to read a comment (which was given prominence,no less!) from someone claiming this to be The Worst Movie of2001 (as so many others have) who starts off by calling parodiesthe lowest form of comedy.  Then why the bloody hell see thismovie in the first place?  If one hates the genre, there's no point. It's obvious that review and many like it were half-written before themovie was even watched (IF it was watched), a sad testament tothe discrimination suffered by the spoof genre, just as with theslasher.For people who aren't closed-minded to the genre and who havethe possibility of liking such a movie, Not Another Teen Movie ishilarious, and one of the best spoofs to come along in years. True, it's not for everyone, and certainly not for easily offended, butif this genre appeals to you, then this flick is a well-done treat. "},{"Title":"Not great, but not awful either","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think a lot of the flak this movie is getting nailed with is coming from people who don't really understand what parodies are.  All in all, NATM is a decent comedy spoof.  Even the harshest critic will have to admit some scenes were hilarious and many jokes were clever.NATM has been criticized for its frequent descent into pure raunchiness, blatant sleeziness, outrageous violence, and low-brow slapstick.  To some extent, I believe this may have been an intentional slap in the face of the viewer.  This was the movie's way of saying, See how vulgar the media that entertains you has become?  This is awful, but you will watch and you will be amused.  See how low we've come?  Hardcore movie fans will be rewarded with a landslide of movie references and gags.  The downside is that mild movie goers will miss many of the jokes.  The overall plot primarily spoofs Pretty in Pink and She's All That.  Viewers should definitely be at least vaguely familiar with those two.  Other semi-important study material include Varsity Blues, 10 Things..., Never Been Kissed, Bring It On, Breakfast Club, American Beauty, American Pie, She's all that, Can't Hardly Wait, Cruel Intentions.   If you haven't seen all those, don't sweat it;  you'll just miss a few gags here and there.There is a horde of other references.  The movie actually tries to touch base with a bit too many movies.  A few of the gags and references are almost so obscure as to be useless(Almost Famous??).  And some of the target movies were actually spoofs themselves.Another flaw is that occasionally, NATM became a bit too self-conscious, and the ending really began to drag.  Overall, it ran a bit longer than necessary.I give Not Another Teen Movie a 6 out of 10.  Go with a bunch of friends and just have a good time. "},{"Title":"Give it a Chance...(one or two teeny spoilers)","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think people can be a bit hard on parodies. It's goal is not to make sense it's to poke fun. I think this movie definitely acheived the goal of making complete asses of the idiots that keep churning our highschool teen fodder. I am a 2nd year film student and everyone once in awhile I like to get away from Citizen Kane and The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari to see something that requires no brain power. This is that movie. Although it does take a small amount of brain power to recognize that the disgusting bathroom scene is a variation of a scene from Detroit Rock City. Remember Anthony Michael Hall? Well, I do and I was in stitches when the name of the lunch room was The Anthony Michael Dining Hall. I am 19 years old and I am a huge fan of *some* John Hughes movies. I thought the jokes about his movies were the best part of the whole movie. Granted, there are a few scenes that were so lame I had to close my eyes to keep a headache from coming on. But all in all this movie was actually pretty smart. It pointed out a lot of things in movies that really ticked me off and most of them happen to be Freddie Prinze Jr. movies.   So don't go expecting Magnolia or The Loss of Sexual Innocence. Just take it for what it is Another movie with a stupid title that makes you laugh (i.e like Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo) *Rating 7 1/2 out of 10* "},{"Title":"Irreverent, sometimes stupid, but mostly hilarious","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie was pretty much made for people my age (30 somethings). From John Hughes High School to the Anthony Michael Dining Hall, from the dozens of movie references and clichés to the obviously hot nerd girl, NATM spoofs everything, mostly well. Unlike the Scary Movie franchise, NATM is consistently funny. The Breakfast Club set is a great recreation (in the detention hall scene) and they even have the same actor in the part.This is not to say that NATM hits on all cylinders. Some of the humor is stupid (the literal flying pooh scene comes to mind), but some of it is so unexpected that it's almost a breath of fresh air. The slow clap guy, the nerd girl and her paintings, the one black guy running into another black guy at a party -- there are a lot of priceless scenes.The plot is appropriately predictable, but how they get from point A to point B is for the most part hilarious. The music references are perfect as well. I had no idea I was so well versed in 80s pop music. The straight-up weirdness of some things like the jock's family is funny because it's so unexpected. The poor nerd girl's dad, portrayed by Randy Quaid, could probably make a spin-off movie. (He calls his daughter pumpkin tits, and has some of the best lines in the movie. After saying he won't be able to pick up the kids after school and being asked if he has a job interview, it goes something like, No, I'll probably just be too s***-faced to remember. Good thing you won't be driving then!, to which he replies, Oh, I'll be drivin'!) The younger set may not appreciate this because the younger types don't like being made fun of for the most part, and the older crowd may not understand it at all and will be turned off in particular by some of the potty humor. The third porridge, though, is us middle-30s types that lived through this era. This movie is a catalog of our youth, put hilariously to set pieces and scenes. It's certainly a breathes new life into an era of stale parodies. "},{"Title":"Great spoof of Teen Comedies, that's often hilarious and very clever, with fun performances and more hits then misses!","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a great spoof of Teen Comedies, that's often hilarious and very clever, with fun performances and more hits then misses!. All the characters are great, and all of the spoofs are awesome, plus Chris Evans and Chyler Leigh made the biggest impressions on me as Jake and Janey. It spoofs many movies, American Pie, 10 Things I Hate About You, Road Trip,Bring It On,All The Right Moves,Cruel Intentions,Risky Business,Breakfast Club, Grease and more, but my favorite has to be the Breakfast club one, in which Paul Gleason makes a hilarious cameo in spoofing himself as principal Richard Vernon!, plus the whole cast is very likable!. There are some misses, however not that many (in my opinion), and I especially loved the spoof in the opening of American Pie, plus Randy Quaid is a riot as Janey's father. It does have plenty of raunchy gross out jokes to enjoy, and Molly Ringwald has a very funny cameo! at the end plus the ending was especially good. It's quite underrated, and I loved how the whole cast played it straight, plus it has a great mix of everything, slapstick, romance, sex humor, etc , etc. This is a great spoof of Teen Comedies, that's often hilarious and very clever with fun performances and more hits then misses, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is very good!. Joel Gallen does a very good! job here, with solid camera work and keeping the film hilarious and at a very fast pace. The Acting is a lot of fun!. Chris Evans is outstanding here as the Jock, he had perfect comic timing, was hilarious played it straight, had excellent chemistry together with Chyler Leigh, was very likable, had plenty of charisma, and was just outstanding overall!, I also loved him in Cellular (Evans Rules!!!!). Chyler Leigh is gorgeous, and does wonderful here, she played geeky very well, and was often cute as a button, she also had a very likable character, and also played it straight, I loved her!. Jaime Pressly is excellent and very convincing as the bitchy cheerleader, I really liked her. Eric Christian Olsen is great as The Cocky blonde jerk Austin, and was quite convincing,he did a really good job. Mia Kirshner is excellent spoofing Sarah Michelle Gellar, and made quite an impression on me, she is a very talented actress indeed!. Deon Richmond is good as The Token black guy, I liked him. Eric Jungmann is very convincing as nerd once again, he was great as Janey's obsessed best friend, I love this guy!. Ron Lester is very good as The Fat Guy, and did his job well. Cody McMains is funny as Janey's brother I liked him. Sam Huntington is great as The Sensitive guy I dug him. Joanna Garcia is a riot as the chick who has Tourette's Syndrome. Lacey Chabert is hot and does fine as the perfect girl. Paul Gleason is hilarious in his cameo as Richard Vernon I loved it!.Randy Quaid is hilarious as the father. Mr. T,Molly Ringwald,Ed Lauter,Oz Perkins,Melissa Joan Hart,Sean Patrick Thomas all do fantastic in there Cameo's. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I liked this movie. I like mindless jokes that get you plenty of laughs and this movie has some pretty good ones. My favorite one was the slow clapper. That was just so funny and that cameo with Melissa Joan Hart. That poor slow clapper got his chance, but it was taken away from him. I also liked the fact that Jamie Pressly was in it. This is my first favorite movie with her in it. Sam Huntington is a great actor too. I am also somewhat of a Randy Quaid fan and characters that are crazy Vietnam veterans. I will say I would have changed the story somewhat. Thats why I didn't give it all of it's stars. Other then that its a good movie. Not Another Teen Movie is regularly shown on Comedy Central. "},{"Title":"Not Another Unrated Extended Director's Cut","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If there was ever a movie that did not need an extended cut this is the one. This type of full-on parody is bound to miss in places. 'Not Another Teen Movie' has about the same number of never-ending jokes as 'Airplane', with a much lower hit to miss ratio. Although the original DVD included a dozen of the worse misses as deleted scenes, the actual movie would have been better if about 50 of the scenes that were actually included had made the deleted category instead. The original cut must have been a post-production nightmare as the editor found scene after scene that just didn't work but was forced to include one horrible segment after another just to build up the running time. The extended cut not only includes all the original cut's weak stuff but supplements it with the mega-garbage that was originally trimmed. So save your money and stay with the cheaper and SHORTER version-you won't be missing anything worth viewing unless you want it to torture your friends.To be completely fair this movie did not stand much of a chance. The teen movies they go after do not lend themselves to this treatment ('Can't Hardly Wait' is already satirical).Instead of being clever, these filmmakers accomplish little more than recycling copycat material from a host of teen films they think they are skewering in a cool fashion. You soon pick up on a lot of negative energy from the cast, they just don't seem to be getting much enjoyment from working with this material, there is no spontaneous merriment.It is not a 'little' movie, Gallen had a large budget and assembled a professional crew who shot a technically (camera-audio-direction) sound film. But when your pre-production phase can't manage more than a few hundred regurgitated inside jokes and clueless dopey references that fly over the head of the targeted demographics, no amount of competent production talent can save the day.A good way to make an objective assessment of a project like this is to imagine which of the participants would actually want this to be a part of their resume. Aside from the camera, audio, and wardrobe people it is a career breaker. A notable exception is Mia Kirshner, who was able to turn what is arguably the movie's worst role into a showcase of her considerable talent as actress. Her part (the incestuous mean girl) is poorly written and totally unfunny yet she finds a way to play it so it actually works. Talk about turning adversity into opportunity.If watching Mia is not enough reason to sit through the film there is also Chyler Leigh and Jaime Pressly-even if their acting is average their decorative qualities are exceptional. One of the few continuing inside jokes that actually works is how Leigh's 'plain Janey' character in glasses and ponytail (referred to as 'the pretty ugly girl') is actually more beautiful than the glamorous beauty into which she is transformed. And Pressly's 'Bring It On' parody is simply the funniest (and cleverest) scene in the film as she denies stealing a cheer from the black girls and then leads the white girls in the stolen routine with words unchanged 'We are the North Compton Wildcats, we're black and we know it, we shake our big booties and show it, we ain't white, we definitely ain't white!' At 'John Hughes High School' (shot at same school as She's the One) this direction-less parody plays on in the 'Anthony Michael Dining Hall' and on the field of 'Harry Dean Stadium' (these names are some of the funnier stuff). A bet is made on the metamorphosis of the Ugly Duckling Girl Who's Really a Babe Underneath (Chyler Leigh). Leigh has two especially funny scenes, one where she is frantically painting and another where her entire extended family blunders into her bedroom while she is using a vibrator (much like the zipper scene in 'What about Mary').In the movie's second funniest scene, a naked foreign exchange student (based on Shannon Elizabeth's character in 'American Pie') speaks in her native language and the subtitles work their way around her breasts so as to NOT obscure her nipples. "},{"Title":"Funny, Funny Movie","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie is a great example of how to make a great spoof. Now granted to experience the movie to the fullest you have to have had seen or at least heard of the movies that it's making fun of. Now I'm an 80's baby so i caught everything down to the smallest reference. I like the way everything gelled together and made sense, where as the original Scary Movie, while very funny just seemed to throw too much into the mix. I personally was waiting for a movie like this for a long time after the barrage of crappy 90's teen movies. I mean these guys seemed to have been in the same meeting with some of these plots. But back to NATM. I can see where some of the so-called gross out jokes may turn a few people off, but you can't deny moments like the Varsity Blues inspired banana split scene, or the Prom Tonight musical number. I don't think any other spoof has hit the nail on the head so perfectly. There are not a lot of films you can just put on and laugh at because they are down right funny like this one. I highly recommend this movie, even if it means going back and watching every teen flick from the 80's just to get the jokes, it will be time well spent  "},{"Title":"You´ll have to have humour to appreciate this movie!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the most funny movies I have ever seen! They really succeed in making fun of other teen movies. Everything is as crazy as it gets, which I appreciate! The movie never becomes boring, because the jokes are so frequent. I don´t get why the average vote is so low. I guess a lot of people doesn´t have humour, and that´s a pity. "},{"Title":"A misunderstood parody masterpiece","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think that a lot of the negative reviews for this movie just come out of people not understanding the purpose of it. Everyone seems to say it was stupid, or it was just silly, pointless humor, but what this movie is doing is making fun of all those stupid teenage movies out there that have the same stupid comedy in them. This was purposefully made to be over-the-top type humor because it is a parody of that genre.I've seen this movie 3 or 4 times, and I still can't help but laugh when I see the scene when no one wants to go with Janey Briggs because she's too ugly and weird with her tied up hair and glasses, yet an albino girl with red eyes that plays the guitar wouldn't be such a bad catch. This is an obvious parody of teenage movies where the one girl is too nerdy for anyone to go with, yet really they're a very pretty actress but just wearing glasses and a ponytail. It probably directly is making fun of movies like A Walk to Remember. It's a great movie, but people think of it as actually being a Teen Movie, and that's why they don't like it. They don't get the meaning.This is a great movie, and I recommend anyone in need of a great laugh go rent it. "}{"Title":"Encyclopedia of teen movies","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The title is true. This isn't just another teen movie.It's a conglomeration of scenes and quotes from all sorts of teen movies. It even includes cameos. Some of it is forced. Some of it is clever. It's not original, but it's amusing. "},{"Title":"Certainly A bad film","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very BAD ! From the worst movies I ever saw. Actually I made click to fast forward many times to finish sooner ! Because IMDb demand 10 lines minimum to send this post I made a copy paste ! Very BAD ! From the worst movies I ever saw. Actually I made click to fast forward many times to finish sooner ! Very BAD ! From the worst movies I ever saw. Actually I made click to fast forward many times to finish sooner ! Very BAD ! From the worst movies I ever saw. Actually I made click to fast forward many times to finish sooner ! Very BAD ! From the worst movies I ever saw. Actually I made click to fast forward many times to finish sooner ! Very BAD ! From the worst movies I ever saw. Actually I made click to fast forward many times to finish sooner ! "},{"Title":"Not Another Teen Parody.","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie (2001) Dir Joel Gallen / Cast Chyler Leigh, Chris Evans, Jamie Pressly, Mia Kirshner, Randy Quaid As Scary Movie satired horror film clichés, here is an attack on teen film conventions and the results are every bit as vulgar but less promising. Title seems to voice the frustration of those who sat through Boys and Girls and She's All That. It exploits teen stereotypes such as the popular jock who accepts a bet to make the uncool girl into prom Queen. Well directed by Joel Gallen who obviously knows the clichés but the characters are seen as types with no personalities. Chyler Leigh completely embodies the image of Rachel Leigh Cook from She's all That but she is not given a role that rises above the appearance and cliché. Other characters include the obsessed best friend, foreign exchange student, and the token black guy. Chris Evans plays the popular jock out to win a bet. Jamie Pressly plays a snobby cheerleader who will be opposed by another team in a reference to Bring It On. Mia Kirshner is featured as a jab at Cruel Intentions when her role requires her to want sex with her brother. Randy Quaid plays the bat crazy father to the Leigh character. He is supportive yet mentally whacked. Predictable and vulgar but well aimed on its target. Too bad that the screenwriter couldn't go beyond another teen movie and create something that was actually funny. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Not Another Teen Movie is easily 1 of 2001's best comedies suitably hilarious for boys and girls!","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not too shabby, boys, you actually made it funny! A hot young cast featuring future Captain America, future Lyold Christmas, and a buncha future nobodies including Lacey Chabert, who most likely has achieved nothing in her life since she isn't a giant movie star entertaining me since being a giant movie star is the only thing that means anything in this world, Jaime Pressly, who's actually done so good with roles like Joe Dirt or My Name Is Earl but I feel like she deserves better roles.........because Jaime's so incredibly hot, the 3 underclassmen, who are Wang Chung, a kid looking like he's trying out for the lead starring role in Preteen Wolf The Nerdy Acne Years, and a Chris Klein's look-a-like. Not Another Teen Movie recreates fine scenes from others of America's favorite classic teenage comedies such as American Pie, Cruel Intentions, Varsity Blues, The Breakfast Club, American Beauty, Never Been Kissed, She's the One, Bring It On, 10 Things I Hate About You, Almost Famous, Can't Hardly Wait, and Road Trip as it perfectly and hilariously spoofs them all which are all teen movies. No reason not to see this really raunchy and seriously sexually exposed teenage comedy from the early '00s with a proper sense of humor that delivers the goods, big time. I first thought of giving Not Another Teen Movie a 5 because it's so shitbrained but then I realized I was just being a shitbrain myself so I changed and now I believe it is a 7. So I'll give it a 6. It's so funny! Watch this high school movie with your friends, over and over again. The voices from the side are terrific as are all the super hot babes doing and saying things really hot like lead star Chyler Leigh, who's intro scene is seriously appealing, Jaime Pressly, who looks hotter than anybody in her cheer uniform plus her next-to-nothing sexy little outfits she wears, Mia Kirshner, who does everything way cross the line sexually, big time, and Cerina Vincent, who is literally just naked the whole time.....with a killer rack. "},{"Title":"Better than your average 'spoof' movie","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The 'Not Another...' and '...Movie' franchises have just about been milked to death recently, as it has attempted to parody everything from Superhero films to Date movies. Both series follow the same pattern, lampooning more popular movies with a selection of gross-out gags and pratfalls. However, nowadays people may have forgotten that 'Not Another Teen Movie' was one of those rarities which actually worked.If you grew up in the nineties (like me), or just generally watch a lot of teenage 'rom-coms' then you'll probably be able to tell which films 'Not Another Teen Movie' is poking fun at. But, the best thing about it, is that the jokes are actually funny.The film is loosely tied together with a story about a popular boy trying to make an unpopular girl popular, but you can almost consider it a sketch show. Therefore some scenes work and others don't, but more do than don't.If you're as sick as the clichés used in teenage romance movies then you'll appreciate seeing them ridiculed here, or if you just fancy some daft, gross fun, then this could also be for you.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Some fun and some great insightful gags","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's a parody of all the teen movies with some great insightful jokes. Janey Briggs (Chyler Leigh) is a plain unpopular girl who is the subject of a bet by the popular guy Jake Wyler (Chris Evans) as a send up to 'She's All That'. It also parodies every other teen movies as well.I just can't figure who would like this movie as I do. Basically you have to watch every teen movie. How many people remember 'Lucas'? You have to watch them all, and willing to laugh at them. It seems like a small group of moviefiles who can understand all the jokes.The best and most insightful gag has to be the transformation of Janey. After that big hit, the movie rambles on a bit with the big game and the rest. The last half just flails around a bit. I just wish they had more gags to fill the prom with. "},{"Title":"review number 389","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Being reviewer number 389, I guess there is not much left for me to add. Whatever ...Being attracted by the picture on its sleeve, underlined by a clear title, I purchased this DVD for euro 5,-. This could be something out of the ordinary.And yes, it is. There are several ways to consider this movie. As a nice persiflage on the common American teen movie. Or as a soft porn, getting vulgar right from its start. And in any case as a piece of well-acted madness.Whatever choice you make, its coherent story guarantees you a nice & light watch. Keeping its tune nearly all the way down.However, in its end 'Not another Teen Movie' becomes Just another Teen Movie the Guy & the Girl find each other in eternal love. I suppose an ending like this represents an American tradition too strong to neglect. "},{"Title":"Not  Another  Parody Movie Like This...Please","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I got this for Christmas one year, and my friends love it, but it is OK. This movie spoofs teen movies, as the title says. This movie has a character, Areole or something, and she is in the nude whenever she is shown. Only her breasts are shown though. Two other girls breasts are shown too. One girls behind is shown smushed against a window. The opening scene, a girl has a toy she is playing with. Her brother and his friends want to have it before the year is up. A man comes with whipped cream over his package. That man is Chris Evans or something like that. It has other strong sexual stuff and language.It's a funny movie, but the plot was stupid. The acting was so so. Some good, some I wanted to punch in the gut.17+ "},{"Title":"Pretty funny","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Typical high school teen comedy movie. The two main female characters are pretty nice although I am pretty much over Jaime Pressly. She acts more and more like a bitch when I see her in roles now. My Name is Earl is a great example of how her roles are now so hatefully bitchie. The poor teen girl that the high school quarterback says he will turn into a knockout is a little strange but nice looking. Randy Quaid plays her dad and seems to reprise his roles from the National Lampoon movies, still funny but done before. The prom at the hotel where all the studs have rooms is very stereotypical, but the whole movie is kind of that way. I did find it to pretty funny. "},{"Title":"Not Another Scary Movie","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's so passé to start with, Well, I've seen worse but, there you go.Actually, the (waaay late to the game, even in 2001) spoof off of John Hughes's 80s Classic Teen fare, Not Another Teen Movie did have me laughing at spots, despite its (mostly) predictable sight gags. And funny enough, the originally foreseen and eventual ongoing joke was my favorite from the token black guy, Malik Damn&#x85;Shit&#x85;That is Whack! had me rolling each time.I grew up on spoofs and they're probably my favorite of the comedy genre. But they're as rare as a GREAT horror movie. Handful at best. Airplane! Scary Movie (#1 only), The Naked Gun! Student Bodies and Top Secret come to mind&#x85;but that's about it. With Not Another Teen Movie, it was eh, but not terrible. At very least, they stayed on track with the specified target teen romantic films, unlike most of the spoofs as of late that skip genres like the film classes the writers should've attended.It would be hard to write a straight away synopsis, since there are a dozen story lines floating around, but the basics involve the inevitable bet between the recently dumped jock (Chris Evans) and his buddies to woo the (yeah right) nerdy girl to Prom Queen status. On a side note, in one of the more hilarious moments, the John Hughes High School Marquee announces the arrival of Prom less than a week from when the school year starts.There were some definite laugh out loud moments, such as the Cruel Intentions sister homage or the Bring It debate and it's worth a viewing IF the aforementioned spoofs I listed aren't available for streaming. "}{"Title":"One of the better spoof's","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Not another teen movie' is one of the better spoof movies out there this and 'scary movie' are the best one's stay well away from the others.although the jokes aren't that funny,yes they do make me chuckle but they do not have the same (HA HA HA) effect that scary movie has on me. It was interesting to see the movie 'try' to spoof the hell out of the best movie ever made 'american beauty' but the other movies they spoof such as 'varcity blues' 'pretty in pink' 'american pie' they all work perfectly. do not miss out on seeing this you'll be sorry if you do. my rating is 6/10 "},{"Title":"Another teen movie","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, this movie began with quickly and funny jokes, made me presume it was going to be a hilarious one. The spoof about Cruel Intentions was quite funny and the girl who played Catherine did a great job, she was identical to the original character played by Sarah Michelle Gellar. The kissing scene was professional and didn't look amateurish as I thought it was going to look (and also funny).I think I missed many spoofs since I haven't watched many of the movies spoofed here, so I don't feel able to say which parts weren't funny. Comparing it to the others Something Movie, I consider this weak. Meet The Spartans, Scary Movie (all), Superhero Movie and Disaster Movie were funnier in my humble opinion, and this movie seemed to be a little racist to me. Still not a bad movie, it's entertaining until 50 minutes, we have some easy laughs and lots of pretty faces to look at.Edit it's interesting to notice how the pattern of woman's beauty has changed in the last years. In Not Another Teen Movie we can notice how skinny the girls considered sexy were, and we all know that in nowadays' pattern women are heavier and have more muscles in the sexy parts (I don't know if I can say that words here). "},{"Title":"Not the best comedy movie but it's still pretty funny!","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The most popular boy, Jake Wyler has bet his friends that he can make Janey Briggs&#x96;the poor, smart girl from the wrong side of the tracks&#x96;prom queen. Meanwhile, her little brother is in pursuit of the most beautiful girl he's ever seen when he's not getting into trouble with his geeky friends. Of course, a teen movie wouldn't be complete without a mean-spirited cheerleading captain, a love struck best friend, and a foreign exchange student, all of whom have prominent roles in the film. Throw in a few guest appearances from familiar faces from some of the best-known teen movies of the 1980s, along with remakes of songs from the same films&#x96;and even some word-for-word dialogue&#x96;and you have an amusing walk down memory lane for anyone who has a soft spot for THE BREAKFAST CLUB, CRUEL INTENTIONS, and PRETTY IN PINK.From the age of parodies, Not Another Teen Movie was released when spoof movies were actually funny and this is one funny parody movie. The movie basically makes fun of teen movies including the story. The story was okay and it made you laugh and the characters were done very well to depict all the stereotypical characters you see in teen movies such as Cruel Intentions, Bring It On, The Breakfast Club and American Pie. The acting was great and the actors and actresses made the characters that little bit more funny. The laughs were definitely there but not in every scene. As you guessed, there would be some toilet humour but Not Another Teen Movie does a good job in handling it well. Overall, it doesn't belong in the pits of Hell with the Seltzer and Friedburg abominations.I personally like this movie. It has some very funny, laugh-out-loud scenes which people could recognise from their favourite teen movie, however there were a couple of scenes that weren't funny but you forget about that. I just watched it for what it was A funny, silly comedy that shouldn't be taken seriously. You know by looking at the trailer it's not going to win any awards for anything and you know it's not going to get many positive reviews but from me, it does. This is for anyone who wants to put their brain aside and just relax for an hour and a half.Read more reviews at www.dudedazzmoviereviews.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Outstanding **DO NOT WATCH THE DIRECTORS CUT**","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. It is mainly clever, well acted, produced and executed. It is also silly and a bit gross in places. I hate the chaotic randomness of 'zany' comedy but this film is well under control and restrained.It does not go for the cheap shots like most over spoof movies, trying to cram in as many seaman and pussy gags as possible but uses old school humour in a number of surprising ways. OK there is some scenes I fast forward and some jokes are a little too blunt... but this really is a special movie. Great sound track, some excellent sound bytes and real belly laughs.**WARNING** DO not buy the directors cut, the extended version adequately demonstrates why Directors don't do there own editing. Last check the original cost a pound more than the directors. Spend that extra pound it is worth every penny. "},{"Title":"Comedy genius","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this film. It is probably the funniest film i've ever seen. I didn't expect to like it, because the only teen movies i've seen are American pie and Road trip, but I really loved this film. It made me laugh so much. Some jokes, i think around about two, i thought pushed it a bit too far with the immature humour, but the rest of the movie definitely makes up for that. Surprisingly this movie has everything; humour, love, fights, someone getting hit by a bus, dancing, singing, it's all in there. They chose brilliant actors, and i like how they chose actors who hadn't done that much, or who i hadn't heard of anyway around the year it was out. I have only decided to watch it now because i like the actor Chris Evans and have seen a lot of his stuff, so i thought i'd add this to the list and i'm glad i did. It's one of the funniest things ever. If you enjoy teen movies this is definitely a must see. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite of todays spoofs!","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie (2001, Dir. Joel Gallen)After breaking up with his girlfriend, Priscilla, a popular jock, Jake Wyler makes a bet with his friends, that he can't make 'ugly girl' Janey Briggs into prom queen. After spending more and more time with Janey, Jake really starts to think whether he wants to keep the bet on or not.Out of all of todays modern spoofs, 'Not Another Teen Movie' is probably one of the best out at the moment. It takes a genre which hasn't really been encountered yet, and has all the potential to achieve something good. There are some great stars appearing, with some even better cameos, from stars such as Paul Gleason to Mr. T. The jokes appear quickly, but it's best if you have seen the films spoofing to understand them. Definitely one of the better spoofs out at the moment.Jake, I need some T-to-the-fourth-power-Y. - Priscilla (Jaime Pressly) "},{"Title":"Creative.","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, this is one killer movie, all what I thought about the teen movies over all brought into this industry without any serious intentions, the director's scripted it off for me. Jake Wyler's bet and the crap he did at the end of the movie was just like  It can only happen in a teen movie the Football matches and the guy who had serious problems with his when-to-clap incidents was tragic, finally when he learns the art, Janie's best friend steals the show by clapping in before him, that was the funniest part of the movie. A must watch for all stupid teen movie fans, and humor crazy people would surely love the movie. "},{"Title":"Better than expected!!","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watched this one on Spain and I was expecting the worse... I'm glad my expectations were wrong! Not Another Teen Movie is a hilarious spoof with many creative although vulgar and politically incorrect jokes. I dig the way the director crafts the very well known teen humor used in teen flicks from the past 20 decades and mixing it with some other genres.There are many clichés that are even spoofed and that's where the movie succeeds. Lots of sensuality, sex jokes, vulgarity, racism in a funny way are the elements that make this movie among the best of it's kind.Give it a try and forget about the negative comments; I can say this is a heavily underrated sex teen parody "},{"Title":"Not Another Bad Spoof Movie","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" NATM came after the success of the Scary Movie franchise and was the beginning of a bunch of bad rip offs of scary movie like Date Movie and Epic Movie. Now I admit I liked the first Scary Movie as it was nice to see a good spoof movie since the last one I saw was Mafia back in the 90s. The problem with this movie is that it explains their jokes like we the viewer are not smart enough to understand the spoof. The worst is when the Jennifer Love Hewitt/can't hardly wait character walks in and some teen boys explain how everyone has to stop and stare and wait for her to start moving again. seriously I got it, but it wasn't any funnier when you explained it. Another part that got my goat was the lame Molly Ringwald cameo. It starts with a fast zoom in of her face so we MUST know who it is. OK like I can't recognize a flaming red head form every teen movie in the 80s when i see one. THen she proceeds to preach like she is the GOD of all teen movies ever and tells the characters what to do in the airport. NOT FUNNY NOT COOL AND NOT NOSTALGIC. The rest of the movie is filled with some alright gross out and stupid humor but no funny spoofing which should be the whole point of the movie. "},{"Title":"Stupidly Hilarious!","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I didn't know what to expect when first seeing this movie- but I was pleasantly surprised. I loved Jamie Pressley, and especially Mia Kirschner, in this film. I still cannot believe Mia actually kissed that old Sea Hag! I grew up in the 1980's....where there was a lot of cheesy music, and equally cheesier teen films. In addition to having the same actor(though aged) as one in The Breakfast Club, it appears the same detention room was even used. Jake even drives the eighties dream car of teenagers....a Porsche 944.This movie is a good parody of all those eighties, and nineties teen films,and worth the rental price....but no more than that! "}{"Title":"Excellent Parody","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The spoof we've all been waiting for and the title was so fitting. This parody was spot on and I liked it a lot. There was every stereotypical teenager you could imagine and in the center of it all was the even more cliché love story. It was great. And what says romantic comedy better than your final scene chase? The one when there has been some miscommunication or some other type of fall out between the love birds so the woman or girl decides to leave or conveniently was leaving at that time anyway. Then the man or boy has an epiphany and chases her down to express his feelings so they can embrace and smooch. Yep, that scene was in there of course. Plus, they outdid themselves by getting the 80's queen of teenage movies, Molly Ringwald. Not Another Teen Movie was one of the best parodies in a while, certainly better than the last few Scary Movies', Date Movie, and Epic Movie. "},{"Title":"A delicious send-up of teen angst movies that provides consistent laughs (whether you want to admit it or not!)","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE is an on-target lampoon of the teen-angst movies of the 80's made by the likes of John Hughes and Chris Columbus that practically took over the movie business during this period. This hilarious comedy, whose primary plot resembles the Freddie Prinze Jr. movie SHE'S ALL THAT, takes place at John Hughes High School (where else?) and follows the rocky, on-again, off-again romance between hunky jock Jake (Chris Evans)and the brainy bookworm/artist Janey (Chyler Leigh). Janie's perverted, drunken, lazy bum of a dad, perfectly played by Randy Quaid, resembles Molly Ringwald's dad in PRETTY IN PINK and Jake's sister, Catherine, is an on target dig at Sarah Michelle Gellar's character in CRUEL INTENTIONS. If you watch closely, you will also observe affectionate winks at THE BREAKFAST CLUB, ST. ELMO'S FIRE, FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH, 10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU,SIXTEEN CANDLES, BRING IT ON, and LEGALLY BLONDE among others. There is one gag after another and they don't all work, but they come at such a lightning pace, the duds can be overlooked. Needless to say, if you haven't seen the movies being lampooned, most of the film will be meaningless to you, but if you know the movies, there is no way you cannot be entertained by this on-target spoof. Performances are energetic and over the top with special nods to Quaid, Jaime Pressley as a bitchy cheerleader, and Eric Christian Austin as Jake's competition for Janey. There's even an amusing cameo appearance by the queen of 80's teen angst, Molly Ringwald. For solid you don't have to think about them laughs, you can't beat this one. "},{"Title":"goofs","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Continuity After the Marty flashback when Coach picks Jake up for a backbreaker, Jake is facing him. In the next shot Jake is facing away from him. The above was posted by another user, but after watching this for the second time in a week, it's not true let alone even close, but Jake is indeed facing the coach and he does that backbreaker thing, but as Jake falls, he rolls over and onto the ground face down. It's clear as how he gets broken and falls to the ground in a heap.OK, give me a break, 10 lines to refute this according to IMDb before I can even post something. OK, here goes, if my sister was anywhere like what Jake's sister was or had in the movie even tho she was Queen bitch, oh hell yeah! I'd ball her! "},{"Title":"I mean... impossible.","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For so many years we have been obliged to watch terrible teen movies with always the same plot, all the same names...Not another Teen Movie is different, in my opinion it's just genius the usual teen movie prejudices are made extreme, from finding a hot girl like Shannon Elizabeth who wears a salopette and eyeglasses uglier than an albino and two siamese girls, to the usual black guy in the chav's crew who says always the same 2 phrases, to the slutty sister of the main character.This is a movie that all teenagers must see, either with friends or not. I find it a waystone to growing up, the actors are exactly where and who they must be, i would tell anyone to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"must see","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i don't know wot a spoiler is. i assume it has something to do with spoiling the film but anyway this is 1 of the best films i have ever seen its got everything from comedy to drama well i exaggerate............its got comedy loads of it though i have watched it loads of times and know nearly all the lines off it it really is a must-see 10/10 there is so many great scenes and the ending is brilliant. all of the actors/actresses do a brilliant job and will make you want to watch it again. i have watched it about 15 times and i laugh every time especially where Jake is signing Janey's got a gun. 10/10. you MUST see this film. I'm gonna watch it now actually. if i was a younger child i would pay attention to the marked price "},{"Title":"Not Another Scary Movie.","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think that there is some intelligent humor in this movie and some damn fine acting too. Not all good acting is about drama. Chlyler Leigh, Chris Evans, Deon Richmond, Mia Kirshner, Jamie Pressly, Randy Quaid, Eric Christian Olsen, Cody McMains, Samm Levine, Sam Huntington, and Ron Lester make a good ensemble for this movie. They all know exactly what they are making fun of. My main problem is the use of She's All That as the main structure of the movie. She's All That reigns as one of the stupidest movies with one of the hottest ugly girls in the history of teen cinema. It makes being opinionated and intelligent seem like a bad thing that should be fixed. This movie may sink too low at points, covering teacher and students in poop, and leaves some plot points hanging, the reporter, but it's pluses out weight it's minuses in my opinion. If Scary Movie can make 144M and have seemingly everyone love it than this deserves some devoted followers as well. It does do a good job of spoofing the fickle and vain youth.*Bruce This make me a little happy in pants. (Beat. girl lats out a wet fart.) This make me a little sad in pants.* "},{"Title":"I LOVE Eric Jungman!","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I went to Middle School with Eric Jungman, in San Antonio, Texas, and my sister and I used to go to all of the school plays that he was in. He was always so funny! It's so great to see him now, on the big screen, doing his thing! My sister and I went and saw NATM the day it came out and were so happy to see that he finally had a lead in a mainstream movie! He is one funny guy! I recommend this movie to anyone who needs a good laugh. I know people keep saying that the jokes and spoofs were all horrible, but I think that those were the people who just plain didn't get it the first time. I mean, have they even seen Breakfast at Tiffany's and Pretty in Pink??? C'mon people! This is funny stuff! And, the whole great spoof on Bring it on!?! They were asking for it by filming that movie! "},{"Title":"a real and funny parodie of all the American teen movies!!","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i really liked the movie very much, there were talented and funny actors, specially Catherine Wylers, she made a very good imitation of sarah michelle as Kathryn Merteuil in cruel intentions. it is a funny movie, it will make you laugh a lot, just make sure you've seen all the movies that are in so you can enjoy more this film. it's for sure a good work. there are very funny quotes, it's easy to understand, in fact, a very well done comedy. it's just so American... well i don't know what else i can say about this, it would be great if they make a second part just like scary movie that's it's a very very laughly movie too, as good as not another teen movie.  "},{"Title":"Falls down in some places, but very funny overall","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember when John Hughes released some of his most memorable movies, and I really enjoyed how this film poked fun at movies like The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, and Pretty in Pink. Even Risky Business is spoofed. Also, the cameo by Molly Ringwald, perhaps the queen of 80s teen movies, is great.Crossing over into the 90s, She's All That, American Pie, and Can't Hardly Wait also receive some good-natured jabs. Lacey Chabert is excellent, reprising the Hardly Wait role of her Party of Five co-star, Jennifer Love Hewitt. Where this movie strays, however, is when the humor takes a scatological turn. For some reason, we are expected to enjoy jokes about excrement; and, judging from the silence of the people sitting around me in the theater, we weren't amused. Furthermore, if the intent was to shock us, that intent failed, too. We were simply disgusted. Oddly enough, Neal Moritz, who produced Cruel Intentions, also produced this movie. You would think that he would show more respect to his original. It's one thing to push the envelope . . . it's another to tear the envelope open and run it through the paper shredder.Comedic timing is the trick to making an audience laugh. It's also knowing when you've pushed the joke far enough. Occasionally, this movie pushes it too far. More often than not, however, the jokes hit the target, and the laughs are plentiful. e are expected to enjoy jokes about excrement; and, judging from the silence of the people sitting around me in the theater, we weren't amused. Furthermore, if the intent was to shock us, that intent failed, too. We were simply disgusted. Oddly enough, Neal Moritz, who produced Cruel Intentions, also produced this movie. You would think that he would show more respect to his original. It's one thing to push the envelope . . . it's another to tear the envelope open and run it through the paper shredder.Comedic timing is the trick to making an audience laugh. It's also knowing when you've pushed the joke far enough. Occasionally, this movie pushes it too far. More often than not, however, the jokes hit the target, and the laughs are plentiful. "},{"Title":"Hum... what did you think it was supposed to be?","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I LOVED this movie! I saw it in English and I saw the French Version recently... I knew it was supposed to be stupid, and it so is, but it's hilarious! I mean everybody is bitching at this movie... you say it's stupid... well is it supposed to be an intelligent movie? IT'S A PARODY, dumbass! (sorry... don't want to insult anybody, I just think it's a good way to end my sentense...) And you say it's all about sex... well, it's a parody of TEEN MOVIES. Have you seen one recently? Yeah so I just want to say I LOVE THIS MOVIE, I LOVE THE MUSIC... That's all. If you want to bitch on me now, well... do it! I don't care! Anyway, I absolutely love this movie. "}{"Title":"Loved This One!","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie! The fact that the parodies were great plus that it was extremely funny was awesome.  I thought the jokes were great and extremely funny.  I think that in order to get the full comedic genius of this movie you must see most of (if not all) the movies that are being parodied. It's also great that they brought in a bunch of not-so-famous (though there were a few well known actors/actresses) actors/actresses to play these parts. I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes to laugh a lot and nonstop for ninety minutes.  If you liked how Scary Movie was done and hate all the cliche of Teen Movies you should definitely see this movie.  One of my favorites! "},{"Title":"A worthy effort","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was enjoyable; it did not, however, live up to my  expectations based on its  predecessors (Scary Movie I and  other films in this genre) or its  advertising.  It was also, at  times, too far over the line for  my sensibilities.  It did feature  amiable leads, some enjoyable  cameos, and more than its share of  dead-on parody.  The sad thing is  that it could, in my opinion,  have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff.","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great film for sleepovers or just staying in, when you can't stand another romantic comedy! It's basically a spoof of loads of teen movies (predictable from the title) and if you've seen them, it's hilarious. If not, it's still funny, making fn out of the utterly predictable lines and stereotyped characters in teen high school. Good, but not to watch over and over. The acting is- well, basic, but the script is fab. "},{"Title":"very underated","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  hilarious, but u really have to have seen most of the movies this one sends up to really get it, and i think its more of a teenage guy film too, and u really have to appreciate some of the less obvious humour, and u really shouldnt be easily offended. bit of a niche maybe! "},{"Title":"Zucker-like. Surprisingly funny.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I caught this, by chance at 4am on HBO. I could not believe what I was seeing so I TIVOed it before crashing. I figured I'd re-examine/finish it when one of my clearer consciousnesses was in charge. All I can say(giving away my demographic)is if this movie came out when I was a teen, my life would have been different(ROTFL).The movie is funny, clever, gross, and stupid. It's dirty, shocking and did I mention funny ? I believe I got most of the references, but even missing quite few (no doubt) this movie still comes through. It's like the Zucker Bros on crack(or maybe Spanish Fly) )I think MAGA's Aug 21 comments are pretty good on this one. "},{"Title":"Cool. Amazing. GOOD!","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the best parodies I have ever seen. This one out does Scary Movie, and Scary Movie 2. Amazing storyline. Hot cast. Great acting, not to mention the great singing the cast does in the Prom Tonight song. I saw this movie once on HBO, and bought the DVD the very next day. I watch it about 3 times a day. ITS JUST THAT GOOD. "},{"Title":"A good gross out comedy spoof.  5/10","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very well done spoof.  The over the top language and sight gags in this one rise it above the others.  It makes sure to spoof every teen movie it can think of.  The Breakfast Club scene, Varsity Blues coach, and Bring It On cheerleaders are all in this.  I can't comment on most things because that language cannot be used.  If you want a gross out spoof then this is your movie.  ** 1/2 out of *****  "},{"Title":"Ingenious!","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand how some people can't like this movie.  It's absolutely wonderful, and I still find it funny even though I haven't seen all of the movies it makes fun of.  Some people take movies too seriously, and this is the type of movie you can sit back and watch with your friends.  The writers of this movie are geniuses and very funny...I could watch it over and over again.  10/10! "},{"Title":"Spectacular","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hilarious movie.  I've seen it twice an laughed a lot both times. Actors and Actresses are very quick and have good comedic timing. The football player Reggie Ray that keeps running into walls and getting concussions is rediculoously funny. I am ashamed to admit that I consistently laughed at the idiot who wanted to be asian. The spoofs on other garbage, bottom-feeder teen movies were hilarious as well. It's the same type of humor as scary movie "},{"Title":"Its about time","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is about time some one made a movie like this. This movie was funny as hell. It spoofed a lot of good teen movies and showed just how stupid teen movies really are. Me and my friends can talk about this movie for hours because its that funny. This movie is better then the scary movie series. Must see. Finally I must say, Mitch cut it out, stop (That's for you Prince).Rating Eight Thumbs Up "}{"Title":"nice","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is funny as heck for anyone who enjoys irreverent comedy. Everytime I am forced to sit through one of my girlfriends teen movies, I see a scene that this movie makes fun of that I never got before.  10/10 from me, this one rocks. "},{"Title":"Taken for what it is, a charmer of a flick","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't understand the negative reaction to this movie.  Okay, I could have done without the references to incest and scat that sprinkle this 2001 film, but other than that I found it funny.  The Randy Quaid character was a total hoot, a combination of his roles in The Wild Life, and Vacation.  And it was a most pleasant surprise to see Molly Ringwald bringing up the caboose.I'm in my late 30s and I used to joke that I could handle anything life had to give me because I went to high school in the early 1980s.  LOL (Yay class of '83!)  When most of the teen movies of the 80s came out, I was still a teen and I saw all of them.  So I found this movie hilarious ... I burst out laughing at more points than I can remember.  I'll concede that it's a joke with prerequisites -- if you haven't seen John Hughes's films and some of the other 80s films that provide elements for sendups here, you probably wouldn't find this film funny.  I'm wondering if a lot of the people who are giving this picture such bad reviews just don't get the jokes because they haven't seen the originals.As I said, I could have done without the parts of the plot that strained good taste, but the original movies they were aping weren't exactly Grapes of Wrath caliber, folks.  Come ON ... "},{"Title":"Get off the road, you ponytail and glasses freak!","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie was surly, just the opposite - it was every teen movie there is, blown way into exaggeration.  I don't think this movie is brillant in any way, shape or form, nor do I think it is original; however, I don't think that was the point.  So that's fine.  I admit there were a lot of sex jokes, and definitely some weird exaggerations, some of them gross, some sexual, etc.  But I have noticed that's how all spoof movies are.  I'm not sure what anyone else was expecting from this except that. It's not any worse than American Pie, Ten Things I Hate About You, etc., nor was it better.  I admit I did laugh quite a few times.  Though I'll probably never see it again, that was good enough for me. "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was designed as a series of one liners poking fun at teen movies. Some worked and some did not. You cannot view this as a movie with a great plot because it is not set up to have one. Could this movie have been better? Of course but I was very entertained and enjoyed it.I missed the opening 10 minutes of the movie so I cannot comment on the opening. I am in my early 30s and I loved the references to the 1980s. I loved many of the 1980's teen movies. My teenage years were great and I have fond memories of the 1980s. It is good to see some interest in that time again. I was glad to see Molly Ringwald back on screen.The casting was very good. This type of movie is a guy's fantasy and all the women were hot looking. That Jamie Pressley and the naked French girl were stunning. I agree that it is good to have nudity back again. We Americans are too prudish about it.The bit of singing Janie's got a gun was hilarious. Randy Quaid was great in his role as the crazy father. I could have done without the crapping jokes. Also the lead actor I think his name was Jake was good but I did not care for the sexual references  made by his parents and sister. A father offering his wife to sleep with their son? A sister wanting to sleep with her brother? I don't see any humor in that. Jake's sister is a stunning actress and could have been written in a different way. They underused her by having her ask guys to crap on her chest. That is plain disgusting.The black guy was also underused. I get the joke that usually teen movies feature one black guy and he has nothing to do. I am sick and tired of black characters always been made to focus on their race. It is getting tired. Can't we move beyond that?I liked who they cast as the football coach. That guy is always a football coach or sheriff's deputy. Remember him from the 1974 Burt Reyold's prison football movie? I forget the title.All in all this movie served its purpose in that it entertained and had several funny moments. Also the love for the 1980s was great. "},{"Title":"As good as Scary Movie","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was a little put off by this film at first, having just watched the ludicrous Shriek if you know what I did last Friday the 13th, but this film was far from that garb. It was actually funny! The opening sequence could have been better, but that didn't spoil the rest of the film for me.From the black guy announcing that he's only in the film because he's The token black guy to the student at the Prom pointing out that everyone in the school is a professional dancer, this film had me in stitches! The fact that they spoofed films that I love (except She's all That, which is a film I hate) adds to the appeal. I love that scene from 10 Things I Hate About You where he's singing Janey's Got a Gun - sooo funny.There were of course the odd unfunny moments that every spoof has, but there weren't many at that. The one that leaps to mind is the literal toilet gag - that wasn't funny and seemed to go on for ages. I never found those sort of jokes at all funny, I don't know, call me crazy.All in all, this is just as funny as Scary Movie, and if you liked that then you'll love this one - just don't take it seriously, of course.   "},{"Title":"Four good things","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  about this movie. First, the opening scene is genuinely funny. Second, it's a lot of fun trying to figure out what movie each scene is parodying. Third, the cameos from actors who have appeared in other teen movies. Lastly, the nudity. There's not nearly enough nudity in the movies anymore.As for the rest of it, it's uneven at best. Most of the jokes are unfunny or just plain gross. "},{"Title":"The 80's References Were Funny.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was a fan of 80's teen comedies and 2 of the more recent ones (AMERICAN PIE and BRING IT ON) and found this movie funny when they made fun of the works of John Hughes. The BREAKFAST CLUB and PRETTY IN PINK references were funny, the BRING IT ON references were funny but the AMERICAN PIE and Freddie Prinze Jr. references falls flat. As for one of the reviewers, The Ebullient One, who stated he thought young audiences today won't get the 80's references excuse me, that what videos and DVDs are made for. I'm not gonna worry whether someone gets it or not.   "},{"Title":"I laughed my @$$ off!!!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a Gen-Xer who saw all the John Hughes movies and their clones in HS & college (Pretty In Pink, Some Kind of Wonderful, Cay Anything, The Breakfast Club, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, etc.), and someone who has enjoyed the current crop (i.e. Can't Hardly Wait, American Pie, etc.) I think this movie skewered them the best!!!What was even funnier was that there were other movies who were thrown in that some folks didn't catchI'm a Golden Goddess!!!  SPLASH!!!  That's a take from Almost Famous but the pool jump and the party were off of a cross between Can't Hardly Wait and 10 Things I Hate About You!  Even the hookers part with the parents We Trust you were Risky Business all the way!!!What was even more surreal was that Amanda Becker was played by Lacey Chabet--the LITTLE SISTER from Party of Five--Jennifer Love Hewitt's old show.  I wonder if Lacey was trying not to laugh her @$$ off while she was totally nailing her old castmate to the wall!!!  I could not stop laughing at that realization--especially the handjob line!!!This movie runs from 16 Candles through Say Anything and everywhere in between, and it makes you laugh all the way to the bank.  About the only part I couldn't stomache was the toilet crash/poop scene.  I could have lived without having to see THAT!!! "},{"Title":"Ugh...","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brutally unfunny parody of teen movies tries to satirize everything from THE BREAKFAST CLUB to SHE'S ALL THAT, and mostly fails miserably.  It's definitely got no shortage of raunch, but all the jokes need to be pointed at, as if the writers assume their audience are a bunch of idiots. Alternately obnoxious and boring; only point of interest is the fact that the staple diarrhea gag features a girl doing the crapping for a change. Up until then, it seems that these movies want us to believe it is only guys who fart and take dumps.  But when the obliteration of the girls don't poop myth is the only thing notable about a movie, you know you're in trouble. "},{"Title":"It is another teen movie, or not?! Well, maybe!?","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not another teen movie takes you to the funniest parts of all the other teen movies produced over the last few years. Why is it funny then? I found it unique that in not antoher teen movie everything goes wrong, which is different with al the happy ending teen movies that we´ve all seen to much. There are scenes in the movie that will crack you up because they are so wrong!! I say, let´s see it again, again, again, and again. It will give you a laugh!! "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not normally a fan of spoofs, infact I don't like any spoofs, but Not Another Teen Movie was absolutely hilarious! Some bits are a bit tacky, but the funny bits were great, notably Mitch, Ox and Bruce the freshmen. Ox (a take on American Pie's Oz) was by far the funniest character and perfectly matched Chris Klein's 'sensitive' performance of Oz from American Pie. The musical number at the end is also great, with the Token Black Guy and the Cocky Blonde Guy (who is uncannilly like Zack from Saved by the Bell) getting my vote as the funniest characters (apart from Ox). If you're a fan of comedy I suggest you watch/rent/or buy this movie now! "},{"Title":"Quite funny!!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was pretty funny. It isn't as good as Scary Movie but it sure beats the sequel and some of the other similar spoofs. This doesn't have many outright belly laughs but it does have a lot less jokes that fall flat than Scary Movie.Its by no means great but there is enough to enjoy, and whats more it has MR FRICKIN T, yes Mr T. That alone is a bonus mark, and he's funny too. Overall this gets 6/10 "},{"Title":"funny if you are in the target demographic","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a funny movie if you are familiar with the movies that it is attempting to lampoon. If you aren't, then you just won't get it and you'll think this is just a stupid movie (which it is, but it's funny/stupid if you know the other movies.) I'm sure it doesn't hurt that I graduated from high school in 1989, so I watched most of these movies as a teen to begin with. Molly Ringwald's cameo at the end was a nice touch as well. If you were a teen in the '80s, check this one out. If not, skip it -- you won't get it ;-)I give it a 5/10.Todd  "},{"Title":"Very Funny And Enjoyable","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This IS  another teen movie but it is just so funny! All the actors were hilarious and did a great job of portraying the actual characters from the actual teen movies. She's all that, American Pie, Never Been Kissed, Bring It On, The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, Pretty In Pink, Cruel Intentions, Can't Hardly Wait. All these teen movies are put together into one hilarious comedy. I would give Not Another Teen Movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"Did a good job at spoofing Teen Movies! B-","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'd say it succeeded at spoofing the teen movie genre.  Except it took the whole gross out thing too far with the poop scene.  Other than that and a few other stupid things, this movie isn't the crap it's made out to be. B-, 7/10 "},{"Title":"Funny, Short, and Bright!","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am not a big fan of the teen film genre, but since I have seen some of the more recent ones, I thought I would give this one a try.  Well, I laughed throughout most of the film.  It was funny and bright.  Not one of those depressing films that go on for 3 hours or so.  One of the funiest films I have seen in ages, and includes a very funny musical number sung by the various cast members.  You will probably enjoy it if you giv it a try.  I know I tried to avoid it when it was released, but went to see what all the hype was about.Very FUnny! "},{"Title":"Silly, dumb fun","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie spoofs teen comedy/angst films of about the last twenty years in the manic style of a Wayans Bros/Zucker Bros comedy. While not terribly inventive it provides enough non-stop sight gags and gross-out humor to generate the laughs. The John Hughes/Molly Ringwald comedies of the mid-eighties seem to get the most attention (there is even a cameo by Queen Molly herself) with The Breakfast Club spoof proving to be one of the funnier bits. A good choice if your looking to just relax with a snack and some silly, mindless fun. "},{"Title":"This movie rocked!!!","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was awesome!!!  I loved it, even the sick toilet humor.  All the actors were perfect in their roles and Eric Christian Olsen is so HOT!! (sorry, I had to say that)  So, those of you who haven't seen it, get your rear end in gear and see Not Another Teen Movie. "},{"Title":"it's absolutely JUST another teen movie","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  a parody, that is. and a fairly good one too. but the only problem is sometimes it gets too vulgar and disgusting. think scary movie (which, by the way, is probably the worst movie-slash-parody EVER). but the jokes about teen films are bearable.i had a few laughs in this film, mostly on the jokes relating to the 80s teen movies. hail to john hughes. the master of it all. i gave it an 8 because it's bearable and there are funny parts, although there's absolutely a lot of nonsense and stupid characters (the foreign exchange student) and disgusting scenes (the grandmother kiss). "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Despite not having seen a number of the movies NATM parodies, I'd have to say this was one of the funniest films I've seen. Some of you guys who bagged it are fair dinkum kidding yourselves. Lighten up. Just a crackup from beginning to end. "}{"Title":"Not Another Review of Not Another Teen Movie","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ok, so I sat down and watched Not Another Teen Movie (AKA, NATM), and i actually tried to take this movie seriously. My first generalization that this movie was a spoof, but my opinion soon changed. Most spoofs take on one or two movies and rip them to shreds, NATM however, took 20 of the teen movie genre, ripped it to shreds, ate it and puked it back up and it created spoof art rivaled only by mel brooks or other greats. I laughed for hours, and I picked out most of the key scenes from the movies that they were from, man i watch too many teen movies, but anyways, this movie is an awesome rip on a braindead genre. I loved it. My only problem with the film was that Areola didn't get enough screen time.  "},{"Title":"Great Comedy, laughted a lot and still having fun, must buy DVD!!!!!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very cool,It´s a big spoof out of all the 80´s and 90´s teen movies,The story is a cliched one, Nasty looking girl gets turned into a prom queen, the problem, Pony tail and paint coveren overal. There´s the talking blackguy,The tourret syndrome cheerleader,the fat stupid guy, the funniest drunken father and Molly Ringwald!!!!! What else do you need......could it be...SATAN!!!!! I just Loved this film and i recommend everyone to see the deleted scenes on the DVD they´re worth it. There´s a lost scene when jamie has a flashback,That scene should have been in the final cut, Randy Quaid is just funnier than ever! I´ll give it a 10 out of 10 in comedy, loved it. Tourrett Syndrome girl Rules!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Another spoof movie - that works!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ever been annoyed at the obvious plots of teen movies or the one-dimensional characters?  Then you´ll like a movie that pokes fun of it all. This movie isn´t a movie in itself - it´s a collection of scenes from teen movies through the past two (even three?) decades overdone and parodied.  Yes, there´s a lot of toilet humor and nudity, but that´s what teen movies were like in the 80´s and 90´s!  If this movie didn´t exaggerate all the cliches, then people would still be buying them.  Although, the people who hated this movie will be the core audience for the next mindless teen movie. My favorite part is when the jocks try to find a girl who is so ugly that the hero jock can´t turn her into a prom queen.  They of course bypass the girl with the hump, the albino, the siamese twins and go for the girl with glasses and ponytail (and don´t forget the overalls!).  For those who think they went over the top Notice that they didn´t mention a fat girl!  They did draw the line somewhere. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, raunchy and a movie to remember","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  At least for me it was...I found this movie chalk full of raunchiness, but at the same time, I found it absolutely hilarious. While I wasn't a teenager in the 80's, I have seen all the 80's movies that was referenced here. I didn't get the Varsity Blues parts because I haven't seen it. I would say I'm a sucker for most teen movies, and I found this parody the best.My favorite part is the Prom Tonight musical.8/10 "},{"Title":"people who think this movie's stupid havnt seen enough teen movies!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie!!!. People can say this movies not funny but they Obviously havnt watched enougth teen movies!!.It gets the angle just right for RIPING it out of all the teen movies!!. The acting is swell and ive seen not another teen movie 5 times and im definetly buying the vidio!.For people who havnt seen this movie yet, PLEASE DO!. But see some of the movies(if you havnt!) that it mentions before you see it otherwise you wont get it as well. "},{"Title":"A very clever and purposefully offensive work","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought the notanotherteenmovie was very dark. I am surprised it was mainstream.  More than a funny spoof, it was nightmarishly exaggerated and absurdist - a postmodern-deconstructive mockery, of all of Hollywood's teen movies.  A very clever and purposefully offensive work.The writers tore up emotionally manipulative conventions & stereotypes employed in most teen movies.  I know this has its value, it was interesting as an expression of & comment on our times.  NATMovie writers were more successful in doing this than Todd Solondz was in Storytelling.  I prefer the fantasy, nostalgia and bitter sweetness of John Hughes.Molly Ringwald as the useless fingerwagging cynical adult at the end is a walking corpse representing death of innocence and dreaming.  The destruction of her original iconic value clinched the message of the film. "},{"Title":"Best Teen Comedy In Years!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I thought this movie was going to suck, but the movie totally surprised and delighted me from start to finish with its wacky, filthy sense of (potty) humor and '80s in-jokes (not to mention all the nudity). NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE is one of the few films that kept me laughing from the first scene on. This is a brilliant spoof I cannot recommend enough. If only other (mish-mash) parodies like Airplane, Naked Gun, Scary Movie, etc., could be this consistently funny! Thank you, whoever wrote this! Pure genius!!! "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was pretty good!!!!!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I just saw this movie - the DVD version and I thought it was pretty good.  I caught on to the John Hughes references right away and thought it was a nice touch.  I was able to catch on to the She's all that plot parody tooI think the cameo appearances of Paul Gleason and Molly Ringwald fit in perfectly.   It's funny about the breakfast club parody - I just saw that movie not too long ago on TV and the scene was absolutely funny - then when Paul Gleason walked in and recited his words he said in the breakfast club - well that made the whole movie funnier.Some of the movie, I thought was a little too raunchy and gross, but other than that, i thought it was good.  I hope to see more parodied movies in the future! "},{"Title":"WHERE IS THE OVER ARTICULATION?","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's about time that we have a movie that spoofs all of those pathetic filmaking attempts at presenting what highschool is like for teenagers.On second thought, i'm probably giving Hollywood a little too much credit by saying that they actually make an attempt.  Most films, with the exception of The Breakfast Club, would rather give in to the stereotypical, one dimensional characters and situations rather than make a realistic, thought-provoking film about real issues that face teenagers in high school such as homophobia, violence, racism, suicide, depression, the list goes on. If anyone's wondering who am i to talk, maybe it's because i just graduated (survived) high school and as far as i know, i am in the minority that did not have a good experience.I guess it should come as no surprise that i liked this movie, even though it is funny in a very stupid and typical way.  My favorite character was without a doubt, Ox (spoofing American Pie's Oz, hair oil and all).  Hopefully, the actor that played Ox (Detroit Rock City) will be seen much more in the future.One question though, where was the over articulate teen that can be seen in every film or tv show written by Kevin Williamson (Scream, Dawson's Creek), or the too-cool-for-school rebel.Unfortunately, we have not seen the end of the marketing machine of teen movies.  Soon we will be hit with Swimfan, a film pathetically casting a bunch of twenty somethings as high schoolers.  Here's a hint Hollywood, if you want kids to see your movie, cast actors under twenty to play the high schoolers.  Hopefully one day we will see another dramatic, inteligent teen movie, in the spirit of The Breakfast Club. A movie that isn't just in it for the $$$$$$$$$$$$$ "},{"Title":"Made for a VERY specific target audience...","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Unless you are in one of two groups (people who were high-school aged at the time of the John Hughes movies of the 80's, or high-school aged today) chances are this movie isn't for you. Myself, I'm 27, somewhere between these two generations and can appreciate the references to both types of films being spoofed heavily in this movie.Some great aspects of this movie The soundtrack, which features modern updates of a seemingly endless supply of 80's standards; the cast, who all look like today's teen movie stars (Mia Kirschner, although playing a character based on Sarah Michelle Gellar's Cruel Intentions character, is a dead ringer for Eliza Dushku, Sam Huntington not only looks like Chris Klein in American Pie, but sounds like him too, while Cody McMains, patterned after Seth Green in Can't Hardly Wait, slips into a dead-on Judd Nelson during the Breakfast Club scene); and the myriad of sight gags (Weird Science section in the library, Anthony Michael Dining Hall) that require repeated viewings to catch all of them. Cameos by 80's teen movie stars abound. The DVD release contains numerous deleted scenes that MUST be viewed.Some not so great well, the toilet overflow in the classroom. The set-up was great. An English teacher is ranting about how modern-day humor is so lowbrow in comparison to, say, Shakespearean humor or Oscar Wilde, interspersed with a girl having flatulence problems in a bathroom stall. It goes south though, when the kids in the vent abover her fall out and the whole mess is sent crashing into the classroom below, sending a shower of sewage onto the teacher and the students. And Areola, while very easy on the eyes, does get stale after a while.It's my guess that the producers of this film didn't really care what critics thought about this film. They know that high school kids everywere are now quoting lines from this film in the halls between classes, and that's what they were aiming for. "}{"Title":"A Brilliant Little Movie...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ask yourself for a second how hard it would be to sit down and write a parody of twenty movies everyone has seen, loved, and is nostalgic about. You have to make it fresh, absurdly funny, and still pack every minute with refrences and little baubles from the past.Not only did this movie succeed, but it knocked the ball out of the park. Key moments1 - The scene where the little guy, having just pulled off a brilliant Anthony Michael Hall routine in the very library where Breakfast Club was shot, suddenly becomes Judd Nelson pushing for more detention and still making me laugh (He was a famous clown! -- Bobo!)2 - Unemployed drunk Randy Quaid (Harry Dean Stanton) sits down and gives his daughter the Pretty in Pink style once-in-lifetime-fatherly-advice-moment only to say at the end, Ah...  I feel better. and walk away.3 - 11 Words  The Guy Who Doesn't Know When to Start a Spontaneous Applause.4 - The Better Off Dead paperboys making a cameo yelling, Stall him!NATM is one of my all-time favorite movies and I have seen 'em all.  One of the other reviewers mentioned MST3K.  I had the same feeling while watching this movie that I do when watching MST3K; I couldn't stop smiling because it was really just thouroughly well written and funny on so many levels.  The first scene is over the top and that's when a lot of these other reviewers should have left.  They think Varsity Blues is an original movie.  "},{"Title":"`mess with the bull young man, you'll get the horns!'","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being a massive fan of both spoofs and the `Golden era' of John Hughes movies, this movie couldn't go wrong for me. This blatantly extracts the Michael out of any and every `teen movie' dating back from `Grease' right up to `Bring it on'. It throws gags at you left, right and centre and although some parts are just plainly not funny, if you have seen at least 50% of the films it parodies then you should enjoy it. The story takes the basis of `She's all that' and throws in characters, situations, quotes and anything else it likes from other films. I loved the character known as Malik  - `The Token Black Guy' (Deon Richmond &#150; Trippin), while Lacey Charbert (Lost in Space) is cute poking fun at Jennifer Love Hewitt's part in `Can't Hardly Wait'. The best scene by far has to be the `Breakfast club' rip off  - where Paul Gleason reprises his role as headmaster Richard Vernon, while Cody McMains becomes a deadringer for Judd Nelson &#150; `mess with the bull young man, you'll get the horns!' &#150; great stuff. "},{"Title":"I need some t-to-the-fourth-power y!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Those of you who panned this movie, calling it immature, stupid, and unfunny, what did you expect? No one said this would win any awards. You were warned that it wasn't the most serious movie in the world. So lower your standards and watch it again. After all, I normally hate dumb movies, and I grew quite fond of NATM. I liked the John Hughes nod, the musical number (that it wouldn't have been complete without, if you ask me), the horny virgins, the token black guy, the nasty cheerleader, the Rudy spoof, the Pretty in Pink spoof (does anyone else think Jake said the line better than Andrew McCarthy did in 1986?), and just about everything. They only went over the top a few times, like with Areola the foreign exchange student and the scene where the toilet spills on a teacher, but most of the time it wasn't that stupid. See some of the movies it spoofs, and then you might laugh. Most of them deserved to be spoofed, anyway. And if you still aren't satisfied by then, rent the DVD and watch the deleted scenes. They're hilarious, and the menus resemble covers of other teen movies (a hand holding a rose on top of a hairy belly, a la American Beauty), plus there's a Test Your Teen Movie IQ quiz. By the way, I did pretty well on it, and according to the scale, that means I need to get a life. Oh, well. Anyway, after that, if you don't laugh at least once, then I give up!!!  "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When this movie first came out it was made out to be another parody in the same vein as Scarey Movie but with closer inspection it is far from anything like Scarey Movie it actually apears to be much more mature, gasp, yes I said more mature than Scarey Movie. Whether it was meant to be this way or not it actually comes off to be more of a satire on teen movies than a parodey of them. Where Scarey Movie took all our favourite horror movie characters and made them into bumbling idiots, Teen Movie takes characters from movies who take themselves way to seriously and makes them even more serious, making them then look like idiots, this makes the movie much funnier and realistic. The most noted for this is the mockery of the profane couch from Varsity Blues, the coach in this movie has to be the funniest character in here. Also the script is brillant in making all the characters say what we actually think about them in other teen movies like the tokin black guy or  the most popular girl in school. Scene like when there are 2 black guys at a party of the closing airport scene just screm satire and are very funny. Of course the movie does tread in Scarey Movie water with lots of immature sex and fart jokes which lowers the movie quite a bit and at times like these the jokes arn't very funny. The highlight of the whole movie is in the form of a song that is just to funny for words. Although this movie won't get the recognized as more than another Scarey Movie it is truely a smart little film and should be watched more closely.  "},{"Title":"think Airplane! for teen movies...(semi-spoilers)","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After reading a few reviews, I don't think I have a lot to contribute that you haven't already seen, but here's my take on NATN...The people who argue that this is a movie for teens and therefore not meant to be enjoyed by adults (which is what I guess I am) have missed some of the cleverness in NATN. The people who point out references to movies that started this genre (Breakfast Club, Fast Times, etc.) know what I'm talking about. If you were among the generation that actually saw Molly Ringwald flicks IN the theater, you should get some pleasure out of this. If you are among the demographic that paid the salaries of the actors in Varsity Blues, you should get some enjoyment out of this. If you watch it and agree with the reviewers who complained that the movie was stupid and dealt too much with dick humor and toilet jokes, Congratulations! you can count yourself among the people who didn't get the joke(s).What I kept thinking throughout NATN was that it was like Airplane! (and then guess what movie is referenced near the end...?)  No, the humor wasn't as clever as anything the Zucker Bros. have done, but it had the same sensibility. Like Scary Movie(s), there are nods to films of the genre that are being lampooned, but some of the jokes are so quick you won't catch them at first. My favorite? The blackboard reference to Fast Times At Ridgemont High. I also liked the exterior shots of homes that look REALLY familiar, if you've seen Weird Science & Ferris Bueller more than a few times.Even the soundtrack is a sly poke in the ribs of the teen movie genre. Not only do we have cover versions of well-known songs, but there are tributes to songs that will be forever associated (and not in an ironic way) with early-80's John Hughes movies. Bottom line this movie doesn't take itself seriously AT ALL. If anything, it makes *fun* of itself as it glorifies the heyday of a once-fresh genre. If you watch it and don't get it, ADMIT that you don't get it, but don't impose standards upon NATN that it takes pains to avoid in the first place.7/10 "},{"Title":"A parody that succeeds - for the most part","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A good parody needs its own interesting story line. Too many movie parodies don't. It doesn't have to be Shakespeare, but it should be good enough to make you stick around for the next gag. A random collection of gags and bits is less successful. There are plenty of movie quotes and references only the hip will get here but the story, while a quote itself, doesn't depend on it. Even better, there are a few bits that are funny in their own right. No teen movie parody can succeed without gratuitous female nudity. It's handled well here.  "},{"Title":"Lol so many inside jokes!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The reason most of the people below did not find this movie hilarious (I'm laughing hysterically on the floor every time i see it) is because they don't understand all the inside jokes!!  You need to have watched *more* than She's All That, Varsity Blues, and the rest of the recent teen movies spoofed.The major groundwork for this film are John Hughes 80's flicks (The Breakfast Club, Pretty in Pink, Ferris Bueller, Some Kind of Wonderful). Those movies are all about stereotypes of popular kids, unpopular kids, nerds, and jocks, the uniquely rebellious girl, the reformed popular guy.You have to be a big 80's movie fan to figure out all the references.  For example, the football stadium is called Harry Dean Stadium -- a tribute to Harry Dean Stanton who plays Molly Ringwald's father in Pretty in Pink. The scene where Jake's father lectures him about going to Princeton is a spoof off Some Kind of Wonderful (my absolute favorite 80's teen flick -- you can't beat the kissing scene there).This movie is classic and gets better and better the more you see it as you're able to pick up on more things.  So, I feel really bad for all of you below who didn't appreciate this movie.  You need to do your John Hughes homework!!   "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was absolutely funny, if your not one that likes funny movies, stay away from it. I think I laughed more at this movie then any other movie. For those of you who say, its just another teen movie, hello? Did you not understand the point of the movie? It was making fun of teen movies... its the Scary Movie of teen movies. I highly recommend this movie to people who like comedies, not to people who die for serious movies(although you might like it too). 10/10 "},{"Title":"This is a teen saying...","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OMG!! I ABSOULTLEY LOVED THIS MOVIE...I READ WHAT OTHER PEOPLE SAID...AND THEY WERE WRONG!!!! I MEAN COME ON...Duh!! a teen movie is ment for teens..not adults..i mean..it is so stupid to hear what quote mature people have to say and when they say that it comes out bad, so u have to be a teen to watch this movie to get laugh..I loved this movie!! It is better than all the other teen movies combined..O wait...that what that movie is about!! LOL! "},{"Title":"very funny...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this on DVD and I have to say it was well worth it.  I however thought the crude humor was a little too much for me, but a lot better than what was in Scary Movie 1 or 2.  Overall I highly recommend you see this film.  I give it a 7 out of 10, have fun watching this one.  "}{"Title":"Funny but Stupid","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After watching this movie several times on Pay Per View, I conclude that this movie is funny but yet the guideline is kind of stupid.  It combines scenes from movies such as the Karate Kid, 10 Things I Hate About You, the Breakfast Club, Cruel Intentions, and many other teen and young adult type movies to become a humorous movie.  However after watching it several times I realized that after watching it once the plot soon become dull and the movie not funny any more.  I believe if you are like me, you will find that some scenes are good and will probably watch only these few scenes over and over again.   "},{"Title":"Amusing enough.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's nothing great about Not Another Teen Movie, but it's passible enough. The highlights are Randy Quaid, Jamie Presley, The Foreign exchange student, the Varsity Blues-like coach, the Mr. T cameo, and the '80s teen movie references. While there's nothing great about Not Another Teen Movie, it's still funny enough. **1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"A Fun Film","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film, Not Another Teen Movie, is an excellent piece of work if one views it as very light hearted.  There are plenty of references to other recent films whose cast is primarily teen or or early twenties.  It also has a few surprises, such as the foreign exchange student who goes around school totally naked. "},{"Title":"FUNNY","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just rented this movie and it is so hilarious. Of course it takes place in a high school and they have all the jocks, cheerleaders, and the geeks, but the movie is so funny and they do make fun of some other movies but it is really funny. The part I found pretty weird was they were @ the place where they had the prom and outside they were singing like a musical and were doing some weird dance moves that were old fashion and I found that pretty weird and I think the movie would have been a lot better without that scene. But other than that it is a great and funny movie = "},{"Title":"Sure that is not another teen movie?","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If it's not another teen movie, it's another stupid american movie, according to Shriek and to Wayans Bros, tradition...my friends and I want some king of intelligence comicity, not the same usual only comicity based on sex, vibrators, bad words and farts! "},{"Title":"Not a half bad spoof","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having grown up on those '80's teen films myself, it was actually a pleasure to sit through Not Another Teen Movie - that is with one major difference. The rather unnecessarily extended poop joke.Other than that, I enjoyed watching films like SIXTEEN CANDLES, THE BREAKFAST CLUB, CRUEL INTENTIONS, THE KARATE KID, VARSITY BLUES and a host of others from the John Hughes catalog skewered. Clever use of his name for the high school as well as a nod to GREASE.My rating would've been a lot higher if that excrement joke hadn't been milked to death, but no matter. I got my rental's worthGrade C+ "},{"Title":"Great Premise, But Felt Incomplete","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What the filmmakers were going for was a complete parody on the teen film genre from the 80s, 90s, and 2000s.  While it was a hilarious concept and the outcome was very worthy of note, it felt incomplete.Mainly, the movie never touched on teen flick hot spots Clueless (the classroom poetry reading scene was perfect for a Clueless spoof of the debate class), Election (the Tourett's syndrome girl looked very Reese Witherspoon-ish, but I kept wanting to see an election between her and Austin, the pop jock, with the embittered teacher obstruction and all...), and American Beauty (yes, we had Wes Bentley's introspective filmmaker, but I wanted Randy Quaid's father to lust for a girl, a la Kevin Spacey's Lester Burnham).ANALYSIS The movie, a pure farce, is funny, but I left the theater feeling cheated of seeing a true all-around high school joke.  Kudos, however, for The Breakfast Club scene. GRADE B "},{"Title":"My explanation of appreciation for a masterpiece","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must admit my first impressions of this movie were quite skeptical after hearing of the reviews for it. Although box office critics can be quite inaccurate when criticizing comedies, they do get some elements correct. However, that was not the case with Not Another Teen Movie From the moment it started I was already aware I was in store for something I had not expected, sheer laughter. This movie breaks new ground (so to speak) in the teen comedy genre, as it uses the classic teen movies such as The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off as it's parody content as well as newer ones such as American Pie or Bring it On. However, the parodies of the newer movies weren't the ones that made me laugh, it was the sheer brilliance of making parodies of older teen movies, the movies that started the whole teen genre that amazed me. If you are appreciative of movies and did not find this funny, admit that you found it creative, because in all aspects, it was. If you are appreciative of movies and haven't seen this yet, pick it up the next time you're at blockbuster. (I would recommend going out and renting it right now, but nobody's paying me for ad sales ;) "},{"Title":"More Jamie Briggs than teen movie spoofs","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most of the movie was about Jamie Briggs and Jake Wyler's relationship while along the way they in twine teen movie spoofs into the story such as Jake Wyler's was in twined in Varsity Blues,Cruel Intentions and his ex-girlfriend(pricilla) was in twined in Bring it on(being that one of the stars from the movie played Mitch Briggs)American Beauty and Jamie briggs in twined in Shes All That(being her favorite movie)and so forth.I THINK THE FUNNIEST PARTS WERE THE SPOOF ON BRING IT ONAND SANDY SUES TOURETTES.  "},{"Title":"FUNNY!!!","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies that these eyes have ever laid eyes on. I thought that it was funnier then American Pie 1 and 2. It was hilarious. I thought that they used the right amount of humour and only went overboard a couple of times. The token black guy was hilarious. The chef who sang about the french toast was hilarious. It was a great film. "}{"Title":"perfectly done","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  how could anyone not love this movie the breakfast club scene was hilarious and the musical number was side splitting.janies ridiculous paintings and austin (the cocky blond guy)were unforgettable.the token black guy was just what he needed to be.Amanda becker is quite possibly the prettiest girl in the world(lacey chabert).way funnier than scary movie.i soon will own this movie and watch it many times to come.If you can trick your parents into watching they will absoutley love the breakfast club scene (as did I)and also the appearence of molly ringwald the countless references to todays crappy teen movies are funny and the girls are very pretty.the plot matters and it is carried out nicely with original scens and ridiculous humor ie. janies paintings,austins charecter overall,the sensitive virgin all absolute winners.please see this "},{"Title":"GOOD FOR A LAUGH","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is good for a laugh. I really enjoyed this one, though some of the jokes were heavy. I mean, the toilete scene was disgusting. Another bizarre scene that was repulsive and exciting at the same time was the kissing scene. Seeing Mia Kerschner kiss that old lady made me feel sick and turned on. Do not ask me why, but I felt that way. It is far above the average for a teen movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes stupid humor. You don't have see it in the teathers if you don't want to, but don't miss it on video. One more thing guys, you'll never see a teen movie with a more sexy feminine cast. This film also contains lots of nudity of one girl that shows her breasts all the time.  "},{"Title":"Funny Teen Movie","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest film since American Pie and Freddy Got Fingered because it has both sex and gross humour at the same time which made me laugh a lot. Yes it's a movie making a satire to all the teen drama and comedy movies which made me to like this film! "},{"Title":"Well, I thought it was hilarious.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A lot of people seem to dislike this  movie because it has a lot of sex jokes. That may be true, but it doesn't stop it from being funny. True, it does have a lot of moments that try to be funny, that aren't (Such as The Token Black Guy's first few lines.) The parodies and spoofs of the movies were extremely well done, such as the parodies for Cruel Intentions, She's All That and that brief moment with Jawbreaker. Like Scary Movie, most of the actors and actresses are new.The jokes that aren't sexual are quite funny. One of the most memorable is when  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS* Janey is painting, is basically throwing jars of paint on to the drawing, and is even getting paint all over herself, with the finished problem to just be a stick figure painting.The movie's not perfect, and is stupid once or twice, but it's still funny overall. "},{"Title":"Not another bad one!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to admit I saw this while calming down from a rather angry mood - and found myself laughing. Sure it the movie had some weird moments but overall, I liked it. In about 90 minutes or so, I went from rather peeved to quite happy. Even today I found myself laughing over the first scene where Janie experiments with a colorful dildo but but never mind. I like what happened when the police nabbed her, pinned her down, and 'put her out'. No, nothing sexual and still it worked. It's the funniest film I've seen this year, and I esp liked the whoever played Janie and Katherine, played by the wonderful Mia Kirshner. If you don't like this film, fine. If you did, so did I. Happy stuff! "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a big fan of the teen movies, I was looking forward to this movie. A co-worker warned me about how awful it was. Rented it anyways and was pleasantly surprised. All the characters were noticeable as were almost all of the scenes. I recommend this for anyone who loves tasteless comedies as much as I do.(6 out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Awesome and Funny Movie!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie I have to say is totally a lot better than Scary Movie. Although I would not recommend this film to everyone due to the language used in some scenes take caution to that. Theres some Crude Humor, but to me it's not offensive to me, it's more embarrassing to me and that's what makes movies good to me. Chris Evans(The Popular Jock) was my favorite character because he wasn't some stuck-up jerk. Some scenes made him like a little dumb, but that's what makes him a good character. Mia Kirshner (The Cruelest Girl) was another favorite because I liked Cruel Intentions and she did a good job imitating Sarah Michelle Gellar in this movie, it wasn't cheesy either. Anyways this movie is exactly like She's All That and has an edge of Ten Things I Hate About You, Cruel Intentions, Pretty In Pink and some others also Varsity Blues too. Just check it out, but I would recommend this movie more towards mature teens then younger teens, because this contains strong sexual content, but you're probably asking so, doesn't all movies? well a lot do, but this has a mix of Crude Humor so it will put some bad ideas in some heads. By the way this movie was almost rated NC-17, but they toned it down a bit. You make your own decision for yourself. "},{"Title":"Hilarious,terrific spoof","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is without a doubt the funniest spoof I have seen since Airplane. I loved every aspect of this movie and the musical number was wonderful. The gross humor is also very funny and clever. SPOILER AHEAD!!!!!!!!!!The make-out scene was totally beautiful and romantic.HAHAHAHA!!!!!!Do not miss this if you are a fan of good gross out humor! "},{"Title":"When will the teen movie genre finally be laid to rest?","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Synopsis What? A parody of teen movies, and you expect a plot? Maybe you're looking for the wrong film all along? Well, if you must know, the basic plot line seems to be based on She's All That.As stated above, this film tries to make fun of films that were not entirely serious to start with. However, it worked for Scary Movie (at least the first one). But the film's ambition becomes its very downfall it's all been done before, only it was then still trying to be comedy in its own right rather than parody. To its credit, Not Another Teen Movie is remarkably short on (but not completely devoid of) gross-out gags and sometimes even manages to be funny during the pot-shots at for example She's All That, Cruel Intentions or Never Been Kissed (especially Cody McMains and his horny gang of friends). And it is several notches above the German American Pie-imitations, which most of the readers will be happily unfamiliar with. But it is about time that the teen movie mania comes to an end, although with Slackers and Van Wilder waiting in the wings, it seems that this time has not yet come. Go and see Not Another Teen Movie if you thought Hey Dude, Where's My Car? was the funniest film of this century so far (although to be fair, Not Another Teen Movie is better and funnier). 5 out of 10 (and out of those, half a point each is for Chyler Leigh and Jaime Pressly). "},{"Title":"Mediocre, but still funny film","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What Scary Movie did for horror parody, Not Another Teen Movie does for teen films.  Not Another Teen Movie has a paper thin plot, but that is because the director just wanted to have so many scenes from old teen movies like, The Breakfast Club and 10 Things I Hate About You, parodied.  This does work sometimes with some very funny moments, but some moments are just not that funny or flat out gross.  This movie is not for people who are easily offended.  It makes American Pie look like a PG rated flick, but if you find movies like Scary Movie funny, than you will probably like this as well.  ** out of ** "}{"Title":"quite hilarious.","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is not a drama, so don't expect to get emotional.It is quite meaningless, but it is totally funny. I laughed all the way through. It would be funnier if you have seen those other teen movies before this one. The only gross part is the two women kissing. I don't think that that was a well done part. It is a very successful comedy.  "},{"Title":"Well, not another AVERAGE teen movie, anyway!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had been waiting for this movie for so long that when it finally came out, I went on the opening night! Basically it's the 'Scary Movie' for all the teen films that have plagued the cinema for the last 20 years. Movies like 'She's All That', 'The Breakfast Club', 'Can't Hardly Wait', 'Cruel Intentions' and 'Never Been Kissed' are mimicked - and mocked - to complete hilarity. Some of the humor is blindingly obvious and way-too-stupid and gross, but this is what makes it funny. Chyler Leigh (That 80's Show), Chris Evans, Lacey Chabert (Party Of Five) and Deon Richmond (Scream 3) are the most memorable characters, plus the sexy foreign exchange who prances around the set in nothing more than her smirk. Plenty of great scenes - too many to mention - and if you watch it with your immature mates then you'll no doubt have one hell of a time! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Really funny!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can't belive some of the reviews I just read about this movie. Itsfunny thats it, its not supposed to be smart or meaningful Notanother teen movie is just meant to be funny. Along with the coolguy ,the black guy, the fat guy and the rest of the hilariouscharacters we were also lucky enough to see the hottest girls ever.That exchange student has great tits and that amanda becket issoooo hot. This movie rules 10/10 "},{"Title":"Chyler Leigh, Chris Evans, Jaime Pressly, Mia Kirshner. Parody of American Pie and a dozen other teen movies. Tries hard for laughs. Doesn't succeed. One Fly Out Of Five","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie tries to parody parodies. If you're going to be successful at that you'd better be funnier than the parody. Not Another Teen Movie definitely isn't as funny as American Pie. And I didn't think that American Pie was very funny. Not often anyway.Not Another Teen Movie parades the stock characters from films like American Pie, She's All That, Road Trip and Almost Famous and waves them about like randy flags. If a gag doesn't work, well cover the actors with gallons and gallons of excrement. Or you can stuff toilet paper out the back of their pants. Or you can have them wondering about naked. Or you can have them run down violently with a truck.Teen Movie sometimes raised a smile. Piles of dung can be funny. And the song and dance routine at the Prom was a laugh but there's precious little else.Here's some of the plot. You're meant to recognise it. Good looking popular boy takes a bet to turn the ugliest girl at school into the Prom Queen. He almost succeeds and by the way he becomes a better person. She blossoms with a fabulous makeover and overcomes her shyness. Her best friend and daggy suitor doesn't get the girl.Some variations. The good looking boy's sister is trying to screw her brother rfce Dangerous Liasons/Cruel Intentions. A pair of school students have their heads joined together. There's an elderly woman exploring lesbianism with a school girl. A footballer actually gets sliced in half while playing. A cook uses his sperm to garnish a desert. It's tasty. Very tasty but not recommended at all.One Creamy Fly Out Of Five "},{"Title":"Good stuff!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Gross-Out Parody...In the same vein of Scary Movie, we now have this little venture.  If toilet humor is not your thing, stay away from this film.  Otherwise, kick back and prepare to laugh.I don't know if my IQ has just lowered over the past two years (I despised Scary Movie when it came out cos it just seemed so dumb), but I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  The jokes flow thick and fast and the film has no qualms about scraping the bottom of the barrel to deliver them.  Some of the movie references I didn't get (it referred to a number of 'older' ones) but it was fun spotting the ones that I did, and also the cameos.  I have never heard a cinema audience laughing so hard or loud, which can only be a testament!Better than Scary Movie.   "},{"Title":"crazy,nasty,wonderful!!!!","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has it's disgusting parts, it has parts that will make your jaw drop,but all in all it is a wonderful movie.  It is hilarious and way funnier than scary movie.  I guess I enjoyed it so much because I enjoy gross out humour, and I don't take them seriously.  The only thing that I would recommend is not to watch it if you are not prepared to be shocked!!! I can't wait for it to come out on dvd!! This parody is awesome! "},{"Title":"A deceptively smart comedy","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Warning may be spoilersI have often been accused of living in the past.  People tell me that RAMBO, COMMANDO and PREDATOR are not the be all and end all of action films.  If they aren't then I would like someone to show me a film in the same genre that surpasses it for sheer bravado and audacious enjoyment.  Similarly, I have told anyone that will listen that the teen genre, while enoying a healthy recrudescence at the moment, pales in comparrison to the days when John Hughes ruled Shermer Illinois or Bob Clarke took us to that redneck strip-joint in backwater Florida or Cameron Crowe reminded us what it was like to order a pizza to History class.  These were the kinds of movies that stay with you in your youthful years and they still make you laugh 20 years later when someone says to you Hey Bud, let's party!  Movie characters were icons to the youth of the 80's and although there are a few memorable ones today ( mainly from one franchise, AMERICAN PIE), you just can't compare today's teen films with yesterdays pioneers of the genre.  Let's face it, the teen film craze was born in the 80's.Having said that, let's be fair.  There have been some successful teen films to grace our screens in the last five or six years.  Beyond American Pie, we can't forget films like CAN'T HARDLY WAIT, BOYS AND GIRLS, WHATEVER IT TAKES, 10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU, SHE'S ALL THAT and a few others. Although I personally wouldn't compare these films to the greats of the past, you have to give them their due.  Kids from today seem to enjoy these the same way I enjoyed the films from the John Hughes Era.  Put all of this together, and it is a perfect time for someone to realize that a spoof of the teen genre is ripe for the picking.  You have the youth of today and the adults from the 80's that can be your core audience.  If you can somehow manage to write a film that takes a stab at both generations, you have yourself a winner.  NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE is a winner.I have to give full marks to the writers.  Mike Bender and Adam Epstein have taken a plethora of films from yesteryear and today and combined them to make not only a fantastically funny film, but a film that is smart and honest with it's jabs.There are references in here to almost all of the movies from the 80's that you can think of.  Fasttimes At Ridgemont High gets poked fun at as does pretty much every John Hughes film.  I am not sure who plays this one character, but the actor that plays the Anthony Michael Hall clone from SIXTEEN CANDLES was a dead on impersonation.  He nailed his mannerisms, his speech, his look and his entire persona.  Another hilarious homage to the 80's film is Randy Quaid's amalgamation of Andie's dad from PRETTY IN PINK right down to making fun of his own character in WILD LIFE, which was Fasttimes poor cousin.Brilliant observations are also made about the lack of African American characters in these types of films.  One personification of perfection comes during a party when the black guy walks into the kitchen and sees another black guy having a drink.  He then walks up to him with a confused look on his face and asks him what he is doing here?  The guy replies that he is just having some fun at the party.But I am the only token black guy in this movie,The other guy then looks embarassed and says, My bad and then turns and leaves.There are also slo-motion entrances that are commented upon, the deliberate, slow hand clap and the ugly girl turning into another beautiful creature that no one could see coming.  All in all this film has more intelligent insight to teen movies than you could possibly pick up in one sitting.Does anyone remember the films BETTER OFF DEAD, RUDY, The Breakfast Club, FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF, NEVER BEEN KISSED and RUDY, just to name a few? Not Another Teen Movie has fun with all of them.Spoof movies are never meant to be taken seriously.  They are not going to win Oscar's or even gross 100's of millions of dollars.  But if done right, they will entertain those of us that remember the movies it's spoofing. Scary Movie did that and it made a ridiculous amount of money.Not Another Teen Movie is (and this is no joke here folks), easily one of the top 15 movies I have seen this year.  I don't know if that is more of an indictment of the films that have been released in 2001 or if it is a credit to the film itself, all I know is that I laughed the entire time I was in the theater and I enjoyed myself even more trying to figure out all the movies the film pokes fun at.  If you enjoyed teen films from the past or if you enjoy the recent ones that have hit the big screen, this film is absolutely for you.9 out of 10  You will laugh, and sometimes that is worth the price of admission all by itself.  "},{"Title":"It was a great movie","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The reason I think this movie it great because it did what it was supposed to do. This movie was written to make fun of the stupid I'm a teen and need to find love movies. It touches all the points that a teen movie is all about, typical teens living in a dream world. Most of todays teens are not the way the big screen portraits them to be. I like the way they chose to use Ed Louter in the movie. Because in all the sports movie the coach is always getting mad at something and cursing up a storm. This movie deserves a better rating then It got ant that is why I loved this movie. You would understand it more if you looked at it at my point of view. Cheesy acting or not This movie deserves the respect it needs.  "},{"Title":"Funny one liners, but that was all....","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Movie has no plot what-so-ever, and 90% of the dialog was stolen, which even in the realm of parody is pretty lame... but I did end up laughing at some of the jokes..... movie was also helped by a libral amount of female nudity, which I enjoyed very much. "},{"Title":"Just Another Teen Movie (possible spoilers)","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't think a person can even begin to account for all the problems this stinker had.  I mean, it can't be good when you're heroine of sorts looks better with her glasses than without them.  Wasn't removing them supposed to be an improvement? And it can't be good when the only truly funny jokes in this movie are John Hughes High School, Anthony Michael Dining Hall, and the line Molly Ringwald has at the end.  And speaking of the end... Couldn't this movie have broken that mold, as it so claimed in its title? Happy endings are the most common part of teen movies.  So why in God's name did this movie have one? I'll be glad when someone in Hollywood decides that completely crude humor is not the way to go.  Once you've seen one movie with a thousand dick jokes, you've seen them all.  And this movie is no exception.  Recycled jokes about sex and genitalia are all over the place.  Even more shocking to me than anything else was when I bothered to stay and look at the credits to see who wrote this pile of crap.  It took, are you ready for this, five people to write this movie.  FIVE!  A five year old retarded child could have made this a funnier and more satisfying movie.  Waste of time and money.  A measly * of *****. "}{"Title":"Not Another Teen Movie equals not a very funny movie.* *1/2","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie is a slapstick that takes on the tradition of making fun of films in the teen genre.Films like Pretty in Pink,American Pie and so forth.It tries to capture the elements of films such as Airplane and Scary Movie.The difference between those films and this film is that this film failed to offer me any humorous emotions.While I have to admit that they were some scenes that had me laughing weakly,there was only one scene that had me laughing hard.But by the time that one scene came up,I lost interest in the film.Not Another Teen Movie didn't live up to what I expected it to be.Although it's not the worst film of 2001,it's certainly not the kind of film that I would rush to the nearest cineplex to see twice.Watching this film on the big screen,I began wondering if the brain cells were just as small as the filmmakers who made this film. "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ya know ive said this in my other reviews about comedies orcheesy action movies, why do they have to be the greatest film evermade. They dont, they just have to be funny and entertaining thereis not one person who wrote a review here that didnt laugh at atleast one part in this movie.  this movie was funny it had stupidjokes. everyone is missing the point of movies like this, there notout to win oscars or be on top 10 lists(which by the way i think arestupid, cause its rewarding a small group of people out of a largelgroup  that all do the same thing, everyone puts tonnes of workand heart into these films )there out there to entertain WHICH ISWHAT MOVIES ARE SUPPOSED TO DO, ENTERTAIN PEOPLE "},{"Title":"Light, but enjoyable.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Not Another Teen Movie is not the worst film of the year (that honor goes to Life As A House, ick.), its not even a bad film. It doesnt pretend to be a masterpiece, it just wants to entertain for an hour and a half and it delivers.There really isnt a plot, just a mixed bag of good and not-so-good jokes.THE GOOD The performances are actually pretty decent, I enjoyed Chyler Leigh and her character. Her paintings cracked me up. The Bitchy Cheerleader and the Bring It On send up was hilarious (you put the ism in defense mechanism!) and their cheer, that was great. I liked the cameo of the American Beauty paper bag. Most of the dialogue is witty and fun, and there a lots of nice little touches. (The Anthony Michael Dining Hall)THE NOT-SO-GOOD There were a few self-aware moments, and they irratate me greatly. The overweight football player and his concussions were boring. The cheerleader with Tourette's is in bad taste, it came with a few laughs, but it was too mean and I like black humor.  The cameos arent funny (Melissa Joan Hart, Sean Patrick Thomas and Molly Ringlwald) they could've been, but they were all about self-awareness.It's kind of a half and half deal, but the good parts are more prominent, and it was consistently entertaining and fun. So I recommend it.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"AWESOME!!!!!","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it is cheesy....but that's good to see in this day and age.  There are way too many violent dramas out there.  I grew up in the 80's and it was such a delight to be reminded of all the great teen movies of the 80s.  I cried because I was laughing so much.  I loved it, and if you just want to sit back and laugh and remember lots of other great movies then check this out. "},{"Title":"The worst movie of 2001? No.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The worst movie of 2001? I think not. Let's be realistic, after all.What's worse?A movie that takes itself way too seriously, has no plot, terrible acting, focuses on one overhyped star, is driven by special effects, is entirely unbelievable even for its own genre and is downright boring...Or a movie that refuses to take itself seriously, offending people left and right with jokes and gags, creating a self-parody that is disgusting at parts, offensive at others and hilarious at still others.Well, Tomb Raider was certainly the crappiest movie made in 2001. Not Another Teen Movie isn't even close. Not when Final Fantasy, The Musketeer and Pearl Harbor all followed Tomb Raider's mold.Teen Movie doesn't take itself seriously -- the toilet scene interrupting the professor's comments about how toilet-humor is gross, vulgar and not funny is proof enough of that -- so why should we? To treat Teen Movie as if it's supposed to have all the merits of Citizen Kane is ridiculous!So when I say that the movie is a 7/10, it's not because I think it is very original. Not because the jokes haven't been done before (they have). Not because it isn't terribly disgusting and rude (it is).But let's face it. It's SUPPOSED to be this offensive, and it's not that bad to boot. The acting is very good -- most likely because there's very little to act -- and the directing can't be faulted. The screenwriting can, of course. There's no plot, there's potty humor galore, and that does get old very quickly, the parodies aren't as funny as in say, Airplane! The Naked Gun, or even Scary Movie...But wait! Is there supposed to be a plot? Nope. Is there supposed to be an overuse of potty humor? I think so. It's quite obvious the director and screenwriters stopped taking this movie very seriously when they let loose with a toilet full of crap (literally) and had women walk around completely naked.The aim of the movie is to completely shock/offend and thereby make the audience laugh, even if it's out of sheer disbelief. They succeed, mostly, with the only problems being some of the spoofs were already used, and used better, in Scary Movie. Also some of the spoofs just aren't as funny as they could have been.So because the film mostly succeeds in doing what it intended to do, and because some of the parodies are truly funny (and not just shock-funny), I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"What to expect","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, here's the deal with Not another Teen Movie, if you are expecting this good smart movie, forget it. The movie serves its purpose it makes you laugh for the time you're in the theater and little while after, telling people about it.  It doesn't pretend to be anything but what it is, a bunch of jokes-very,very funny jokes might I add- strung together over a used plot. Not another teen movie will not be remembered as this great movie, I know this, but to some people it really is a great funny movie.  I enjoyed it and suggest it to anyone that liked Scary Movie 1 or 2, Airplane, or any other great parody movies. "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's funny to see that this movie was voted as poorly as it was.  That was the funniest movie that i have ever encountered.  i know it might just be that the immature humor this movie contained made me laugh because i am a 17 year old male, but i thought it was great. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  contrary to what unemployed critic may have told you about this spoof, Not another teen movie does one thing well, be funny. some of the funniest movies i have seen, get bagged by critics. that leads me to one conclusion, critics are all idiots and they dont get half the jokes in the comedies. its a lot harder to make a funny movie than to make a movie that sends people home crying but still those movies clean up on award night. not another teen movie pushed the envelope on perversion and goes way overboard with some disgusting jokes. that only makes it funnier. it wasnt as good as scary movie but its better than the boring collection of crap i saw 2 days after this one--ali. "},{"Title":"Not What it Could Have Been","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While admirable for it's celebration of John Hughe's work, it really could have been much more.  The cameo appearance by Molly Ringwald was spectacular and I thought, the best part of the movie. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There were some stupid parts in that, but over all the movie was great! It's about time they did a spoof on all the teen movies! I really wouldn't suggest that children view this movie do to the nudity, among other parts that were just plain inappropriate! "}{"Title":"Stupid comedy----I LOVED IT!!!!!!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is loaded with toilet humour, crude sexual content and humour, and foul language. But then again, THESE ARE THE REASONS I WATCH MOVIES LIKE THESE IN THE FIRST PLACE!!!!!!!This movie was a total laugh-fest. It may never reach the level that Scary Movie went to, but this is definitely something to watch for anyone who digs teen movies.However, the part where Catherine Wyler (The Cruelest Girl) tongued Sadie (The Undercover Reporter) was not funny. That was this movie's only flaw. I mean, who wants to see drool, especially if a hot young girl is kissing an old battleaxe? Not funny at all. I was blocking out that terrible image with my hands in front of my eyes when that came on.The funniest part of it all was the Horny Virgins. Definitely the Horny Virgins. Especially the guy who thought he was Chinese. That was some funny sh*t. I also found Janey (The Pretty Ugly Girl) and her drunken father to be funny as hell.Overall, this movie was like Scary Movie, but geared (as you can tell) toward teen movie parodies and not horror movie parodies. It is a million laughs if you dig parody flicks. I just wished that the Shoot The Sh*t song by Bad Ronald played the whole way through, cuz that song rules.Oh, and Areola (The Foreign Exchange Student) is HOT!!!My Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious!!","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie on its opening day and I must say the audience seemed to like it.  It was very funny especially because of how poor the main girl was.  There was lots of nudity and there was a little kid in the theater who seemed to enjoy that.  This movie should not been seen by very young kids. The lowest age should be 2.  Anybody over 2 should see this because its funny.  Thank you. "},{"Title":"A nicely done movie","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some of the teen movies that have come out recently have been kind of tasteless but have ranged from truly bad to good.  In my opinion this movie was kind of tasteless, but was actually done very well.  When I went to this movie I thought it would be very-extremely stupid, but I found that it actually wasn't, it effectively brought together, as far as I could see, all the teen movies, even Pretty In Pink which was brought out in the 80's. The way all the teen films were put together into this one movie was spectacular and shows that the writer is very good at what he/she does, unlike many of the other ones.  Overall I don't think this movie was a 10, but I think in terms of teen comedy, it ranks very high. "},{"Title":"I actually liked it.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was very cute, not like the other person to comment here. Which must have had a WHOLE LOTTA TIME ON THEIR HANDS. (btw? Was this movie even out in the theaters on November 30th? When they wrote that comment??) Anyways..They used good actors/actress', most who are pretty popular but haven't been scene lately in films. Their technique was good, it was exactly the same as Scary Movie obviously, which definitely got grade ratings! (considering there's a Scary Movie2 out now) So I think if your in the mood to laugh at some teen movie cracks then go see the movie. "},{"Title":"a very funny movie","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  well, I loved it. My friend and I were laughing the whole time.  It's REALLY not a movie for those over the age of 25 or if you have a problem with poop, being naked, or sexual gratification.  And it isn't funny unless you've seen all the movies they spoof in it.  It isn't the worst movie of 2001 *cough* SUMMER CATCH *cough*. Don't expect this one to be popular with the reviewers because they're a bunch of crusty old men who only enjoy historical drama's with distinguished actors.  It's stupid and disturbing at times...but so stupid and disturbing you can't help but laugh.  "},{"Title":"Not Another Teen Movie that is made for teens that is rated R.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is no way any teenager in there right mind would EVER have there parents come into this movie with them. Its pretty hard for someone under 18 to get into a rated 'R' movie where I live, but, I managed. Although there are plenty of parodies based on older movies (The Breakfast Club, for one) there are plenty of parodies based on movies kids who are 10 have seen. Basically, this movie is appealing to teenagers, more than people who can get into the movie. There were at least 15 people kicked out of the theater, by security.The movie was definatly funny. Its not like other movies (Scary Movie 2) Where you laugh at the first scene, and stay quiet fiddling your thumbs for the next hour and a half. There are a lot of parts you will be laughing at. But, there are also parts you will be laughing at stupidity. There is a lot of stupid, stupid humor. But, there is a lot of good humor. I enjoyed it, but, again, some of the older critics may not, as I said before, this movie is appealing to younger audiences.See this movie if you want to be amused. It was much better than I expected. There are some stupid parts, and a lot of parts that you'll laugh. Actually, a decent mix, pretty even. And, since a completely stupid movie would be a 0/5, and a amazingly funny movie with be a 5/5, this gets a 2.5 "},{"Title":"Don't take the movie seriously and you might have a little fun","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, here's the thing. Critics hated it. They said it was the worst movie of the year. Even worse than Freddy got Fingered. Now here's my two cents. I don't think this was that bad of a movie.Certainly not deserving an oscar, or even any critical acclaim, and okay, my final tally doesn't even rate it any better than 6 out of ten, but hey, if you don't take this movie seriously, it's not that bad. It's obvious the filmmakers knew they didn't have an oscar movie, and THAT IS OKAY. I think they went out there and said let's have fun with this, and I bet they had a blast making it. That doesn't mean that they thought they were making the funniest movie ever, in fact, I think they were just paying homage to the comedies they grew up on. And no critic has the right to lambast a movie and say that it was the worst thing they have ever seen because many people put their hearts and souls into this thing to get it done and for people to come out and have a good time.There are no pretenses in this movie, and while many of the jokes fall flat, many others are so funny that you forgive the movie of it's sophomoric elements and gross out humor. Some of the parodies are funny enough to make you smile, and while at times the movie tries to be more clever than it should be, in the end you can at least say that you didn't have too bad a time.I liked many of the fresh faces, and I hope they get another chance to show us what they can do. I wouldn't recommend anyone spend ten bucks to go see this, but if you are looking for a movie that's full of mindless entertainment, see it when it comes out on video/dvd.Rating 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Ok, but by no means outright bad.","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While Not Another Teen Movie is not as funny as other genre spoofs like Scary Movie, it is by no means bad, just ok. It trys to shock the viewer visually with poop gags, and naked women, which are predictable aspects of such a movie as this. Yet the funniness comes in the dialogue. Some of the lines are actually very clever.However sometimes when there are no sight gags and no funny dialogue, the movie is not anything. In fact it is actaully very similar to what it spoofs, just with over exaggeration. For example, there is a scene where a guy is trying to seduce a girl by standing in front of her naked but with whipped creme on his private parts. This is identical to a scene in Varsity Blues except instead with a naked guy. Sometimes, instead of spoofing, the movie simply retreads the actual teen movie cliches, as if the ambience of the movie being a spoof will allow us to think of the scenes as more stupid here than in the orignal movies.Not Another Teen Movie aims to high. While trying to be as gross and outspoken as Scary Movie it sets the audience up to be shocked, and then gives a mild fraction of what it proposes to give the audience.Personally, visual grossness isn't that funny to me; this movie seems like its just in the middle - to bland to be outright funny, but at times too subtley funny to be outright bad.Many will say that its just plain stupidity. And while it does have a couple wildly, and overly, sexual gags, it is for the most part an honest portrayel of not only teen movies, but of how teens really try to act and think they should act, just in an overly exaggerated way.It was a movie torn between satire and spoof, two ends of the comedy spectrum. The result? A movie that rates at a moderate 2 out of four stars. see it if you want to be amused. Rent a movie like Airplane or Scary Movie if you want to laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Stupid gratuitous and crude, but still funny","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay, this movie is about as socially redeeming as an enema, but the fact remains I laughed a lot while watching this movie. All the jokes were easy, all the acting was stiff, and I had to take a shower directly after watching it, but it was funny. A good way to summarize this movie would be with one character the cheerleader with tourrettes. Its stupid and a little sad, but you cannot help but laugh. Another thing this movie had going for it, it ran the gamut of teen movies. From Breakfast club to Never been Kissed, From Pretty in Pink to American Pie, It did its homework. I was personally happy to see a Duckie character. And then there were the cameos. If you don't laugh at Mr. T and Molly Ringwald, well then you don't need to see this movie. I liked it, but it is incredibly stupid, If you liked Scary Movie 2 then this is probably for you.  I gave it an 7 "},{"Title":"If you're at least 20, you'll fully enjoy this movie!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are a lot of reasons why this movie was Rated R.  One reason that hasn't been brought up is that someone of age would most likely understand 95% of the parodies of the movie in terms of which movies they spoofed it from.  Being 20 myself and having seen a lot of the teen movies of the 80s, I truly laughed my head off watching this movie.  I had to go see it the second time to catch more of the references.  For instance, one reference with the bikers running over the best friend... They were all yelling Two Dollars!  And if you are one of those pour souls who don't know where that reference is from, it's from Better Off Dead, one of my personal favorite comedies (Can you ski the K12?).  This movie truly intended to have its audience be the 20+ year olds who actually remember the 80s by having the music primarily be a bunch of 80s cover songs along with the spoofs off from the movies of the 80s to today.  I'm surprised they didn't go as far back as the 70s with the cliche Mrs. Robinson.  They did it with Never Been Kissed, even though a lot of the audience did not get the one liner in that movie. In all, if you loved the movies you grew up with, such as Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Pretty in Pink, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, and Better Off Dead, this movie's for you! "}{"Title":"rude, crude and nude.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  not another teen movie is hilarious.  it's also rude, crude, with a foreign exchange student that walks around nude.For those who've watched mostly every teen movie from the last 20 years, you will get the jokes. for those who haven't,  you'll still be laughing your a..'es off.Most, but not all of the jokes are in your face. For instance, there are those who are probably wondering why this older lady is playing a high school student? What the movie is doing is making fun of the aspect that a lot of people in their late 20 to early 30's are being cast as teenagers. Craig Sheffer and Eric stoltz were in their late to mid 20's when they did Some Kind Of Woderful.  Stockard Channing was 34 when she played  in Grease.  "},{"Title":"funny, funny movie","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was awesome!!!! some people say it was a dumb movie but i thought it was great. It was the most hilarious movie i have ever seen. I never stopped laughing!!! There was never a dull moment. I would encourage people to go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Mindless, Vulgar Fun...No More, No Less!!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just like Scary Movie and its sequel, Not Another Teen Movie isn't so much a real movie with a plot as it is a string of verbal and visual gags and puns, pop culture references and raw, juvenile, gleefully vulgar humor.  Most of the gags  here are obvious and even lazy (it took more than 6 writers to concoct the script!) and the subject matter will definitely not be everyone's cup of tea.   The scatter-shot nature of movies like these assures that the quality will always be wildly uneven, but if you're a fan of the movies being spoofed here (examples/targets which span over more than 20 years), you're sure to get at least a few hearty laughs from among the whole mad lot.  Just check your brain at the door...this is a guilty pleasure if there EVER was one!   ** 1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Yet Another Teen Movie... pretending to be better. lol","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hmm, how do I make more money? Wait! I know! Let's make a parody of every single genre out there! That would do it for sure! Oh YAY. Ok, so Scary Movie had it's ups, and perhaps this did too. It was funnier then American Pie, but that's not saying much. My biggest complaint is that it is too obvious and in your face. The toilet scene, the painting, the coach. Another irritating aspect was that the plots were copied a bit too obviously. Mainly the plots from Breakfast Club, Cruel Intentions, and She's All That. They practically took chunks of the movie and set them into this one, that made it a bit boring. Honestly, I enjoyed the little things the most, the beginning with the separation of the cliques, the `walk' of the three popular girls like in Jawbreaker, the `slow' entrance scenes and the clapping. The toilet scene was ABSOLUTELY unnecessary. To me humor just isn't as funny when it is trying to be as obvious as it possibly can, so even a total moron who only saw the trailers to all the teen movies would still understand it. If you're out there for an unsophisticated lode of laughs, take a peace of this cake, but be wear of the tooth ache from all the unnecessary sugar.  Anyway, if you want a good old parody watch Monty Python, if you want a pie in your face parody watch this. It is also interesting to mention something that just occurred to me. Most Parodies are parodies of parodies, for the typical teen movie is a parody in itself. Now all that's left is making a parody of the parody of the parody "},{"Title":"for the type of movie this is, it deserves a 10","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  with this movie you get what you pay forthe good...1. the title tells you right off the bat what you should expect, a parody of the typical teen, highschool oriented movie.2. the opening scene is worth the 7.503. great, immature humor... don't get me wrong, i love intellectual humor like the british tv show 'are you being served' and such, i also love serious movies like the godfather, but every now and then, you need a movie which you don't have to think about anything, you just sit there and laughthe bad...1. you begin to get tired of the 'stupid' jokes after awhile2. half of the jokes are allusions to other movies such as 'american beauty' and '10 things i hate about you' if you haven't seen these movies then some of it you won't get.3. it's short, i went to the 10.40 showing it started about 11 after previews, i was out the door by 12.30 after staying to see if anything good was after the creditsthe ugly...the guy sitting in front of me who smelt really bad and kept snorting when he laughedrecommendations...1. if you liked scary movie and such, this is the movie for you2. go when the theatre will be packed, the reaction of the people in front of you convulsing from laughter will be funny enough to be worth the 7 bucks on it's own, plus laughing is contagious, it's hard to not laugh when 250 other people are.3. there should be a list of pre-required movies to see before this one, i can't list them since 2 or 3 allusions i missed myself, but if you are the type of person who's seen most movies that are based around teenagers you'll be fine. off the top of my head... american pie, american beauty, she's all that, 10 things i hate about you, cruel intentions, the breakfast club, and varsity blues should be good to start you off. "},{"Title":"Not Another Box Office Smash.....","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie is a parody of the teen genre and though some people may think that this genre was in no need of a parody, anything can be made fun of. So thats what Not Another Teen Movie does, make fun of the genre, but it only makes you laugh some of the time. Trying to follow in the foot steps of Scary Movie, Not Another Teen Movie uses some of the old standard but funny gags while also throwing in a lot of the gross-out humor, however, Scary Movie made it funny, Teen Movie made you want to ask WHY? There are Some things that Teen Movie could have done. First, and by far, that asian wanna be kid. Could have been funny, but the gag got real annoying real fast. I like Randy Quaid, but truth be spoken, his scenes were not in any way, humorous. For continuity sake, I know it is a parody, but why were the students playing football, in the cold, wearing their Varsity Jackets, their breath showing in the air, and then the next day, the Senior Prom is taken place. Was there a need to throw in Risky Business, or Ferris Bueller, or Sixteen Candles. A lot of the targeted audience have not seen these movies and the jokes were just not that funny. What made movies like Airplane, Hot Shots, Naked Gun, or even Scary Movie (not Scary Movie 2) so great was that they used only a few sources for their jokes. Teen Movie should have stuck more to the recent teen movies, and forgot about the rest. Instead, they tried to think of any movie they can, and make fun of it, losing the audience on the way. On a positive note, when making fun of She's All That, the movie was a lot of fun. The 3 minute Prom song was entertaining, the site gags were on most part funny(the paintings, the pictures, etc...)and when even making fun of other recent teen films, the movie was good. Why, because most people got the joke.All in all, this movie will make you laugh, it will make you at sometimes wish that you didn't pay for it. I would give it a C+....which is about average. "},{"Title":"succeeds here and there...","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's a long time in coming, but the teen flix of the 80's and late 90's get spoofed here.  Scream was a serious spoof of slasher films, and the Scary Movie spoofed that.  Now we get a lampoon on the dramas and comedies centering around teens from the last 20 years or so.  A team of five writers manages some decent gags, but at times appear completely amateurish.  They really got me laughing with the American Beauty guy, but looked plain when they basically copied a scene from The Breakfast Club without putting a spin on it.  Or constantly resorting to slamming people with buses, bikers, linebackers(!), etc.  A pretty good cast is aligned (Pressly is gorgeous) with a wide number of John Hughes (who the high school in the film is named after) alumni featured Randy Quaid, Lyman Ward, Paul Gleason, and a certain young lady I won't spoil.  Though it pretty much hits and misses the whole way thru, at least it doesn't play all its good cards early, allowing us not to be bored too much. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but....","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Do you remember seeing that obnoixious comedian who makes fun of people?  At first you think he/she's going to be stupid or horrible, then they begin making fun of people or things that you can't stand and it turns out that they are actually pretty funny, yet you won't pay fifty or sixty dollars to see that person live in concert and you won't buy their comedy albums.  Yet they make you chuckle everytime you see him or her.  That is what NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE reminded me of, sort of like Weird Al Yankovic. He's obnoxious and silly most of the time, yet he can be funny, and yet I won't see him in concert or buy his albums.  You like their work, but you are not a fan.  I liked NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE, but I'm not a fan of recommending it. This film is another spoof of a popular recent genre, of our time. Instead of disaster films (AIRPLANE) spy movies (TOP SECRET) hero worship films (HOT SHOTS) and slasher films (SCARY MOVIE) this is a mock of the teenage movies of the 80's, 90's, and 21st century.  At John Hughes High School (there's a joke, a school named after a popular director who made a lot of teenage films) there is a variety of students that are used from popular teenage films put together in this film.  The two main characters are Janey Briggs (Chyler Leigh/doing Rachael Leigh Cook from SHE'S ALL THAT) and Jake Wyler (Chris Evans doing a Freddie Perez Jr. from SHE'S ALL THAT and James Vander Beek from VARSITY BLUES).  Then you also get Priscilla (Jamie Pressly as the Kristin Dunst from BRING IT ON), Amanda Becker (Lacey Chabert as Jennifer Love Hewitt in CAN'T HARDLY WAIT), Ox (Sam Huntington as Chris Klein from AMERICAN PIE), Areola (Cerina Vincent as Shannon Elizabeth from AMERICAN PIE), Ricky (Eric Jungmann as Jon Cryer from PRETTY IN PINK) and, well you get the picture. This film spoofs every teen movie you can think of BREAKFAST CLUB, FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF, RISKY BUSINESS, PRETTY IN PINK, CLUELESS, NEVER BEEN KISSED, AMERICAN BEAUTY, SHE'S ALL THAT, VARSITY BLUES, AMERICAN PIE, 10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU, CRUEL INTENTIONS, PORKY'S, ROAD TRIP, GREASE, and god forbid ALMOST FAMOUS (that was the only film joke that I found blasphemous).  And some of the jokes are pretty funny, I enjoyed the BREAKFAST CLUB bit with the three kids in dentention with a clock that has the words this clock is 20 minutes fast and good ol' Richard Vernon (Paul Gleason) reprises his role as the hard as nails assistant principal who keeps handing out detentions as if they were papers.  Then there are other jokes that fell very very flat like water downed soda, the beginning with the AMERICAN PIE self pleasure scene is an example. I thought this film was going to be horrible before I saw it (why did I see it, well that's a perk you get working at a movie theater).  But after watching it I was impressed, I enjoyed parts of it.  Like I said before, I didn't enjoy it enough to love it like JAY & SILENT BOB and ZOOLANDER. But it wasn't god awful like SEE SPOT RUN or TOMCATS.  I know there are several people who are quoting this as the worst movie of 2001.  Well, I can say this to those people who say that YOU HAVEN'T SEEN CORKY ROMANO OR FREDDIE GOT FINGERED YET!!!!!!!  And if you have, put the two together, there were more witty jokes in NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE that CORKY and FREDDIE combined. What did I enjoy, the sharp puns at the popular and annoying recent teen movies.  Like the infamous whipped cream bikini from VARSITY BLUES, or the character of Malik (Deon Richmond) who is the Tokin' Black Guy who's just hangs out with the guys and says a comment or two every minute and is always the bud.  I also enjoyed how director Joel Gallen got actors from the popular teen movies that this film is making fun of.  Cody McMains (from BRING IT ON), Ron Lester (doing his VARSITY BLUES role again), Kyle Cease (10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU) and others. But what I enjoyed the most was the role of Areola by Cerina Vincent. She was the foreign exchange student, who walked around the entire movie only wearing a smile.  What was funny is that she talked good English, just with a Italian accent, yet there are still subtitles at the bottom of the screen.  But what makes it hysterical is that the subtitles are spaced apart so the viewer can see Areola's assets without any words getting in the way. But I can't recommend this film because of several reasons.  There was too many weak attempt jokes (every scene with the annoying Randy Quaid came to mind).  Too many jokes trying to be gross or disgusting.  Too many jokes where the actors are trying hard to be like the characters from the movie they are making fun of, when some work and others don't (Jamie Pressly being like Kristin Dunst is an example).  And too many jokes where they keep teasing you for the punchline, and by the time the punchline is told, you would have already guessed it by then. I think most teens will hate this movie because they won't get the jokes.  This film makes fun of the kind of movies they go out and see several times with a group, making a dozen of the teenage films a box office success.  And adults won't see it because it's too somphomoric and childish. So who will see it, probably guys like me, the kind who can't stand most of these crummy teenage films with the overly recycled plot, with corny romantic dialogue. And those who like looking at female breasts a lot since I haven't seen that many in a wide realeased film since PORKY'S or ZAPPED. Since this film almost received a NC17 raiting, I'm sure a unrated version of this film will be out on DVD by next April or May. This film isn't bad, but it isn't great.  *** (out of five) "},{"Title":"I thought it was good...","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just got done seeing this film, and I must say that I thought it was great. I have been in need of a good laugh, and I don't think I spent more then five minutes catching my breath. I thought the best part of the whole movie was the cameos from the people who made these movies back in the '80's and we're willing to spoof even themselves. As the saying goes...If you can't make fun of yourself...who can you make fun of. I recommend this movie to everyone. If you're too young to catch some of the references...that's what movie rental places are for.  "},{"Title":"Clearing the Air on a Good Parody","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off I would like to address to the unemployed idiot critic who wrote a review before me. He states that parody is the laziest form of comedy. Not only is that wrong, parody is one of the most DIFFICULT forms of comedy. A parody for any other genre is much more simple due to its seriousness. Comedy is very hard on the simple fact that the jokes have to be more outrageous and outlandish than the original jokes. And as far the filmmakers not relying on us to get the jokes, they expected us to have seen the 80's cult classics, which would have made no sense to anyone who did not see them, plus they are jokes that a generation before us would understand from their theater going experiances in the 80's, not just the permanently ironic generation he tell us that we are. As far as stealing parts from other movies being jokes, scenes or ideas, maybe this guy should realize that there is hardly anything original now a days, besides, a parody isn't supposed to be anything we havn't seen before. As stated by Louis Giannetti in his book Understanding Movies (which is a textbook for college students) he states, parody is the final stage in a genre. He goes on to say that parody points out the steryotypes in the usual devices asociated with a genre. When it is comedy, it has to outdo jokes that are funny while reminding the audence of the origin. It's the same with all parodies, regardless of genre. This guy seems to think that all parodies have to live up to Airplane and Naked Gun. I also noticed that this guy didn't mention any Mel Brooks or Woody Allen flicks as classics, only Zucker and Abrahms, how much trust can we put into a guy that has such a bias on classic Parody. Don't get me wrong, Zucker and Abrahms are good, but c'mon, Airplane isn't comparable to Blazing Saddles. And in the end, whatever this guy tells us, he should walk into the middle of a showing and stand there for a few minutes. The audience's roaring laughter proves that this shmuck isn't a very good at judging what is good and not. It took this guy a really long time to tell us that this movie isn't good, so, I took my time in proving that his opinion is biased and should be disregarded. "}{"Title":"If you like teen movies and like spoofs then check this out its really funny!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not another teen movie is a great spoof about the teen movies from the past. Its hilarious and the characters are great. If you liked scary movie then you will like this. This has been one of the best spoof movies i have seen! It had me and my friends rolling in the isles and talking about it every minute and quoting from it. Go see it for yourself and decide if you like it...personaly i cant wait till its out on DVD/video! "},{"Title":"The best parody film in years; miles above the horrible Scary Movie and it's sequel","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's a moment about half an hour before the end of NATM where all the characters burst into a song about what is going to happen At the Prom tonight.  Had the entire movie been up to the level of those 3 minutes, we would have been looking at an instant classic, the next Airplane if you will.Instead, we are left with a good, somewhat funny, and in many cases dead on parody of the teen movie genre (And allow me to disagree with the previous reviewer- there is NO subject that is not worth parodying)  The recap of the plot and character types above is quite excellent, no need to go into it here, other than to say you were not SUPPOSED to laugh at the character types, you were supposed to laugh at their actions.And that, of course, is the true test of any comedy Did it make you laugh?  And in this case, the answer is yes, repeatedly.  Are there bodily fluid gags?  A few, and they are as unfunny as ever to me, despite being seemingly popular with the mainstream audience (see the sucess of the incredibly gross and disgusting and most importantly unfunny Scary Movie series).  Were the cameos intrusive?  Well, Molly Ringwald's was overplayed, and I wish Melissa Joan Hart's had been longer, but the others were about right. (Last note to above reviewer In regards to Mr. Vernon and Ms. Ringwald What career?) There are also cute pokes at American Beauty, Almost Famous, and just about any other teen flick you can shake a stick at.  All in all, the funny bits outweigh the rest by a considerable time margin.  And then, there was the prom song *snort*.In short, if you have a few hours, and a few dollars to spare, you could do far worse than sitting through NATM.(2 1/2 stars out of 4, 7 out of 10, B- take your pick)R "},{"Title":"Funny movie for the market it was made for..  not for others","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think the movie manages everything it wanted to.  It's not a example of great film making or anything.However, if you like crude humor and a movie that knows it's actually a movie...  it doesn't attempt to play out much of a story per se... it just gets you from one gag to the next.  The gags were ROL laughing my behind off funny.  If you liked the humor in scary movie...  and especially if you've seen some of the teen movies this film spoofs...  I'd say forget the sundance critics..  and just go watch a funny movie...I like smart movies...  which this is not, but i like to be shocked at how far hollywood will go for a joke too -)  "},{"Title":"Funny as hell","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you don't like spoofs then don't see one.  This movie is hilarious.  Its full of inappropriate humor.  I dont know about anyone else, but if its in bad taste then its funny to me.  If you thought scary movie was funny, this is better.  However, I feel teen movies are easier to spoof than horror movies only because teen movies are usually funny to begin with.  Ignore the reviews, the film wasn't intended for those people.  If the trailer looks funny to you than you will laugh your ass off. "},{"Title":"GREAT!!!!!!!","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes it rips off many other movies but its a masterpiece collage that fits together and makes for one hell of a laugh and one hell of a great movie, don't bring the lil kids with ya though not for them! It also has a great soundtrack with many remakes of great 80's songs too. Go and see this movie that is like no other teen one! "},{"Title":"Probably the first well done ADULT parody","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is rude, crude, vile.  In other words - I loved it.It is not a '10', as Airplane is.  Airplane was above the crudeness.  They took the attitude of here are the jokes - if you don't get them, screw you. NOT is in your face.  Right at the beginning one of the characters says, I heard there is an old undercover cop posing as a student  Enough for Airplane.  Here, in bright yellow behind him is a memo that says, Attention, there is an old undercover cop posing as a student.  So its been dumbed down for today's audience.The jokes are constant.  There is no pause.  Several cameos make for several 'Oh Wows!'.  There are references to older movies too - see if you can catch the line from Ferris Beuler's Day Off.This is a well down adult movie.  I'm glad I saw it on Opening Night. "},{"Title":"Not bad but not good","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When i went to see this movie I expected a Scary Movie clone, but this is much better than Scary Movie. There are gross out jokes, nudity and alot of language, but its fun to watch. But the only way you will undertand most of the jokes and gags you have to watch movies like Bring it on, Shes all that, 10 thing i hate about you, Varsity Blues and many more. If you like gross, sometimes hilariuos movies, go see this. "},{"Title":"The writers thought this stuff was funny...","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie **1/2Don't let the title fool you &#150; Not Another Teen Movie is just that another teen movie.  The cast is photogenic, everything is predictable, there's gratuitous nudity, and it all works out in the end.If you've seen any of the &#145;teen' movies EVER made, you already know what Not Another Teen Movie is about.  Take bits and pieces from (in no particular order) She's All That, Cruel Intentions, Grease, any movie directed by John Hughes, American Pie, I Know What You Did Last Summer, Lucas, Rudy, any of the sports movies that didn't star Denzel Washington or Gene Hackman, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Clueless, Bring It On, Can't Hardly Wait, Pretty in Pink, American Beauty and Better Off Dead.  Now that you've got those, and probably some that I forgot to mention, watch Airplane!, The Naked Gun, Kentucky Fried Movie, and Hot Shots!,  and Dumb and Dumber, and then you have Not Another Teen Movie.You already know the cast &#150; they're all stock characters.  The Popular Jock (Smith), The Pretty Ugly Girl (Leigh), The Nasty Cheerleader (Pressley), The Beautiful Weirdo (Smith), The Obsessed Best Friend (Jungman), The Desperate Virgin (Evans)... just look at the movie poster.  It has everything you need to know right there.  You already know what's going to happen, because it is, despite the title, another teen movie.  The only difference between this and I Can't Hardly Wait to Bring It to theClueless Ridgemont High Breakfast Club is that the jokes in this movie are intentional.Some of the jokes are clever.  The school's name is John Hughes High.  The cafeteria is the Anthony Michael Dining Hall.  Some of the jokes are laugh-out-loud funny.  Some of the jokes are big-old gross-outs.  And that's fine.  Unfortunately, it's all been done before, and better.What was right with the flick?  The soundtrack, first of all.  Nearly all of the classic &#145;themes' are represented `Don't You Forget About Me', `Oh, Yeah', `Bizarre Love Triangle' &#150; they're all there, but they're covered by bands like Orgy, Goldfinger and Face To Face..  The covers are good, but originals would have been better.  The cast was also good.  Mostly no-names, but no-names with some measure of comic timing and/or physical comedy skills.  What was bad?  Some of the movies that were being parodied were wrong choices.  Grease?  Absolutely.  She's All That?  More power to you.  The Breakfast Club?  Why?  Better Off Dead?  Wasn't that a spoof in the first place?Most of the time, Not Another Teen Movie is just awfully pleased with its own cleverness.  Part of it seems like an homage to Jim Abrams, Jerry Zucker and David Zucker (the men behind Airplane! and The Naked Gun) put together by high school kids.  The writers know what's funny, but don't know why a joke is funny, which is critical for a spoof.  Airplane! worked because it was acted seriously.  The actors behaved like they were in a disaster movie.  When Leslie Neilson says `Don't call me Shirley,' he's not playing it for laughs, and that's why the joke is funny, apart from the pun.  When this flick is spoofing teen &#145;dramas', it works just fine.  When it's adding it's own absurd jokes, it's funny.  When it's trying to spoof a comedy, well, that's just asking for trouble.If you're looking for an homage to a filmmaker, check out Mallrats (Kevin Smith's tribute to John Hughes) or The People Under The Stairs (Wes Craven's love letter to Sam Raimi's Evil Dead series).  If you're looking for a Cameron (Fast Times at Ridgemont High) Crowe fix, Vanilla Sky opens this week.  If you really want to see a spoof, anything involving the Zucker Brothers is good (except for Ghost, which isn't meant to be a comedy).  If you want to have some cheap laughs, some occasionally clever pop-culture references and sight-gags, and some brief nudity, then Not Another Teen Movie is probably right up your alley.  "},{"Title":"so its not casablanca...big deal!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  do not go to this movie expecting a serious drama, a clever satire, or even a fresh look at teen movies...go to this movie to have a good time!  i found the movie really funny, and so did the rest of the audience...i might not pay the full 10 dollars to see it, but as a matinee...definitely!!  for anyone who enjoys teen movies of all types (and that goes for those of us who still secretly love molly ringwald movies...), it is just a plain old fashioned funny movie.  get it? it isn't supposed to teach you anything, it isn't supposed to reveal any truths about life, it is simply a funny movie. i don't know if it would stand up to repeat viewings, and i don't care!  in the same way that people watch ahnold movies without caring about substance, people should watch this movie...i don't know about letting kids under 17 see it (it REALLY deserves its 'r' rating), but i am a 26 year old girl, and i really had fun.  the music is horrible (if you hate it when good 80's songs get covered by bad nu-metal/fake ska bands) or really good (if you love it when bad 80's songs get their proper sound by nu-metal/fake ska bands)...and really, c'mon, lighten up! it is just a movie for pete's sake! i mean if you go into this movie expecting the comedy stylings of wes anderson, then you will be disappointed.  my best advice is just to go with it, and don't let people who think everything has to be highbrow ruin your good time!  it is ok to laugh out loud at nudity, dildo jokes and rudy...these are not golden idols, people...in short it is really funny.  however, if your head is shoved firmly up your unmentionables, don't go see it...go rent a woody allen movie, and think smug thoughts to yourself! "},{"Title":"Not too bad as long as you know what you're getting into...","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     In the vein of Scary Movie, this is another gross-out parody. This time, all of the awful modern teen movies are targeted, as well as 80s classics. While some of the moments are terribly disgusting, overall the movie is quite funny if you go in with an open mind. Obviously, the viewer should not walk in expecting an award winner, so all that's desired is to be entertained and it at least does that.   Cameos from Molly Ringwald and Paul Gleason (the principal from The Breakfast Club) brighten moments, as well as a hilarious performance from Randy Quaid. If you've seen the preview, you pretty much know that the story is just a cut and paste job on several ridiculous plots. First-time director Joel Gallen does well keeping the pace rolling, as he is no stranger to short parodies, ranging from his work in the early stages of Zoolander and Mission Improbable skits. There are a few jokes that fall flat, but other than that, it's pretty easy to sit through. The cast is faceless, but good. The all play their parts well as caricatures of originally uninteresting roles.   This one is worth going to see in the theatre as long as you know what you're getting into. It's fun to see the audience reaction to some of the scenes and makes it a little more enjoyable. If this is not your type of movie, stay home and skip the video. Go with an open mind and you'll have a good time.  "}{"Title":"About As Funny as Scary Movie (I) was.","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First, I saw the reviews on here already, and this is not the worst movie of 2001.  That goes to Legally Blonde.Tuesday night, Dec. 11th, I caught a screening of the above movie in D.C.  Let me just preference this as I really like spoofs and I enjoyed Scary Movie, Scary Movie 2 wasn't that good, and there hasn't been much in between.  Bearing that in mind - while waiting in the lobby of the theatre, I saw the trailer countless times on a TV.  Actually, I got tired of seeing it.  When the movie did start, it opens with Janey Briggs (Chyler Leigh) doing a parody of a scene from American Pie.  After that five minute sequence, we meet the gang at high school.  The long and short of the movie is a parody of She's All That.  There are a lot of parody's in between, one of which I doubt the audience will pick up on because the movie it is referring to wasn't a big success.  There isn't much to say about this one, not all the good parts were in the TV spot or trailer, but it seemed to me that most of the funny parts were in the 1st 20 minutes and most of the movie was predicable.  I thought this movie was about as funny as Scary Movie was but not as disgusting.  I think what the director was trying to do was use the same formula as American Pie - throw a bunch of no names (except for Jaime Pressly who has been in a bunch of stuff) and see if they can get a career out of it.  Should be interesting how this plays out, since I am sure it didn't cost much to make either.  6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"American Pile","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What's wrong with this picture?  If any genre--ANY genre deserved a swift kick in the pants it was the sappy teen picture.  The ones where instead of actually having a damn relationship he just converses with his brain-dead best friends about this girl he really wants to talk to.  Then talk to her, for Christ's sakes!  Moaning ain't gonna help matters!Which was why I was thrilled to see Not Another Teen Movie.  I was hoping for something like Scary Movie which really and truly hated the slasher movie genre.  Here was my revenge on Ryan Phillipe and James Van Der Beek and that odious little simpleton Freddie Prinze Jr., who thieved hours from my life with their whining.  If I want to see someone whine about their relationships, I can rent a Woody Allen movie and actually be entertained!But sadly no.  Not Another Teen Movie wasn't my sweet revenge on the most lackluster group of films in cinematic history.  It actually pays tribute somewhat to the teen genre instead of ripping it to shreds. You just can't call your target audience on being idiots, I guess.  Instead of single-mindedly making all of it's gags at the expense of the genre it's mocking, Not Another Teen Movie just settles for grossing you out.  So *this* is how screenwriting students at the bottom of their classes make their livings.I'm not easily offended, nor did anything that happened in this film do so, but gross rarely equals funny.  Do you remember those videos you used to watch in your High School biology class?  You know, the ones about the inner workings of the vocal cords that actually show footage from inside the human body?  That stuff grosses people out, and that stuff is nature.  It takes someone with a brain to be funny.The three best teen films I've ever seen are as follows Cameron Crowe's Say Anything..., Wes Anderson's Rushmore, and Terry Zwigoff's Ghost World.  Why are they better than all the others?  Because they were funny, sensitive movies by funny, sensitive people.  Unlike the products of the other directors, who probably have difficulty remembering that their socks go on first in the morning.But my biggest problem with the movie is the title Not Another Teen Movie.  Actually it is another teen movie, in the fact that it sucks.1/2* out of 4  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I got to see a sneak preview of this movie last Monday, and I loved it. Your not going to this movie expecting a great work of art, or having the greatest story line. Face it, your going to this movie to laugh, and you will be doing plenty of it!This movie is great for older teens and young adults. Don't go see this movie if you hate seeing sexual jokes. If you've gone to see any of the teen movies in the past years you will love this movie. It's mainly based around a parody of She's All That, so I'd go rent it before hand to get the most of it this movie. It reminds me a lot of what Scary Movie was, but it pushes the limits, by far. The opening scene alone beats out Scary Movie all together. There are points in the movie that some jokes just weren't funny, but there aren't many. There's not much of a story line, but hey it's a parody, and Scary Movie was just the same way. The only thing I didn't like about this movie was that by the end of the movie, the whole thing of taking sences from other movies and trying to fit them it gets old, and you question how some of them even fit in to the story line. But what can I say, lots of laughs, hot girls, bad words, and naked girls, and if your a girl, there is some nudity for you. Go see this movie if you want to laugh. "},{"Title":"lots of laughs, but not much else","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I won't deny that this is a very funny movie. People will definitely be entertained watching it, especially if they've seen the large number of movies it references or makes fun of (among them American Pie, American Beauty, Cruel Intentions, Never Been Kissed, 10 Things I Hate About You, and even Grease).In addition, there are lots of cameos that are a delight to see.However, there are lots of very painful scenes and it *is* very graphic and violent, even if those scenes are shown in such a way as to produce a mostly comic feel.As for plot, there's not much there besides borrowings from all the films it references. Visually, it is very similar to the teen movies of late, colorful and appealing, with gorgeous young adults in their 20's playing teenagers. Characters are again borrowed from other films. But that's not the point of the movie.This movie will make you cringe sometimes. But mostly, it will make you laugh. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, and just plain awful","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I came to this film not expecting a work of art or even a decent film, but something that could entertain me for an hour and a half.  I have to admit I did laugh numerous times during the film because I could identify every film that it was mimicking and mocking, however, that could not salvage the film. I was fortunate enough to see this at a screening and not pay to see it. There was crude humor and some quite disgusting parts.  The highlight of the film was a cameo by a popular 80s star.  I have to say that this was just not a good movie.  There are many other comedies that are far better.  I recommend going to see them as well.  Rent the films it spoofs instead (like She's All That, Pretty in Pink, etc.).It was painfully obvious that this film tried to cover all teen movies without actually bothering to take the meaning from them. There was potential in the film, but the director stopped at the surface instead of going further which might have salvaged this film.   "},{"Title":"Fun if you like the teen movie genre","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie (2001) is a decent parody of the teen movie -genre that actually manages to throw some great punches here and there. The humor is based on sex, relationships, puberty, bodily liquids and such &#x96; anything and everything associated to the teen movies in general. There's a couple of films on which Natm's plot is based on and more jokes relate to those movies.The cast is OK, Chyler Leigh and Chris Evans leading the bunch, all deliver their lines nicely and are great as the stereotypes that they are supposed to be.There isn't much to say about the film. It does a lot better job than most of the parody films of the decade but still it drags far behind the great ones, like Hot Shots (1991) or Top Secret (1984). But then again, Natm makes comedy out of whole different kind of films and themes than e.g. the two mentioned above... 2/4 "},{"Title":"Greatest Teen Comedy of the Decade","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen movie is a collage of all the top teen movies of the recent years. It projects all the funny aspects of the teen movies in an amusing, amorous manner. It is a spoof in its truest form, but then again not a spoof at all.We meet up with these characters, Jake Wyler, the humdinger high school kid, son of a rich guy, who believes that he can get any girl in high school he wants. His twisted sister Catherine, whose ultimate fantasy is to do it with her brother. (Cruel Intentions anyone ??) Then we have the innocent yet stupid Janey Briggs, a girl whom almost everyone considers to be un-date-able. Her sex maniac brother Mitch and his two friends Bruce and Ox. Jake's witty linguistic friends, Austin, the mighty Reggie Ray and the insanely funny Black guy Malik.(This is so much like Varsity Blues) Then there's Jake's ex girl friend Priscilla and her weird boy friend Les. (American Beauty). Plus there's a multitude of other small characters who make this movie more colorful and hysterically funny.The plot is pretty simple, considering that the central plot is almost a rip off from the movie Can't Hardly Wait. But it is forgivable because it is so funny. We got this spoilt kid, who just got dumped by his smoking hot girl friend for some weird photographer guy. So his best buddies get him a bet that he has to date some girl of their choice and make her the most popular girl in college, a.k.a Prom Queen. He takes up the challenge i.e to turn the most hopeless girl as his partner. There are many ups and downs along the way, but eventually they do get together in the last scene. Dang, the last scene with the flight attendant is so damn funny.There's a good soundtrack to this movie if anyone is interested. The screenplay was too funny to be true. It got me howling throughout the 90 minutes. The acting is just about okay. Kudos to the makers who got this ultra brilliant idea of NATM.I would disagree that NATM is too crude or more raunchy than its purpose. Yes, its a teen movie and it is directed to an audience whose age is between 17 to 25. But then again you got the R rating coming along with it. And to those who scream at American teen comedies being too raunchy, give me a break. Because it is absolutely impossible to meet up with someone in his mid thirties who hasn't seen American Pie, NATM, Ten things I hate About You, or any from National Lampoon's production house.Besides when you are reviewing something like NATM, there's not much you can say is there ?? "},{"Title":"Not worth writing a review about","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Inane and sophomoric come to mind, along with idiotic, embarrassing (to be part of the same human race as the filmmakers) and offensive, which of course is why the film was appealing to some of those who've resulted from inter-family affairs of the heart.Some of the actors are recognizable and that is too bad for them. Looking for work? Any port in a storm? Drug habits need support?The writers are not writers and the actors are not actors. The producers and director should be neutered for the sake of the gene pool.A thousand years from now conquering aliens will view this and feel justified about destroying the native civilization so they could turn the place into an amusement park. "},{"Title":"This movie should have won an Oscar","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. It's not only funny, some parts are absolutely hilarious. I was laughing so much that I nearly fell from my sofa. Not only being a comedy, it has it's own style and an uniquely-cool approach. It's a pity those so-called serious movie critics never sees it and find it funny.Chyler Leigh is absolutely lovable (she's so uniquely beautiful, just like her character in the movie) and did an excellent job. Chris Evans is not bad too. I don't know what's all the fuss of the movie world today, where movies have to be so deep and confusing (and boring) to win an Oscar or to appreciated. Personally, on a lazy Sunday afternoon, I would rather pay $10 to go to a cinema with some pop-corns and soft drinks and watch a funny and stylish comedy like Not Another Teen Movie (Plus I get to see those hot chicks in the movie! Very hot!), than watch Academy-recognized films like The Queen, The Good Sheperd, or An Inconvenient Truth, movies that will make me fall asleep.I'm not saying that I'm right or wrong about this, or everyone should feel the same with me. This is just my view of movies. Movies for me are to entertain, not to make me fall asleep as I can do the same with an old history textbook. "},{"Title":"Best Comedy In The History of Movies","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the greatest comedy of all times. It is so funny that you will most likely pee a little bit in your pants...but don't worry, it's a good kind of pee.The humor is smart, witty, and subtle all in one package. You really can't go wrong with anything in this movie. If you don't buy it, you're an idiot. If you don't get the humor and movie references, you're a retard.Buy now. Seriously.This is the greatest comedy of all times. It is so funny that you will most likely pee a little bit in your pants...but don't worry, it's a good kind of pee.The humor is smart, witty, and subtle all in one package. You really can't go wrong with anything in this movie. If you don't buy it, you're an idiot. If you don't get the humor and movie references, you're a retard.Buy now. Seriously. "}{"Title":"Best movie of it's kind period","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The internet database rating for this is lower than I would expect but the fact is this movie has a very specific target audience -- the 30 something crowd.Anyone who was coming of age during the 80s is probably going to find these movie to be hilarious. The movie is a satire of Pretty in Pink, The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, etc.The humor is raunchy but also hilarious. The jokes are setup well and the characters from the 80s movies are nailed. Everything is played over the top and for laughs.There are a few gross scenes in the movie that are forgivable because of the amount of jokes that actually work. The jokes that work are laugh out loud funny. IMO, this may be the outrageously funny ever made.This is the movie that the Scary Movie franchise wanted to be. Scary Movie had a few laughs with it's parody of horror but this movie hits more than it misses which is the opposite of the Scary Movie franchise.I do believe this movie would still be funny to people who have not seen all the 80s movies but those of us who grew up with those movies will appreciate this move a great deal more.The last 30 minutes of the movie starting with the prom is perhaps the most hilarious parody ever filmed.I give the movie 8 out 10 which is as high as I have ever rated a comedy. "},{"Title":"Good for some laughs","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was a lot of fun. I think that one of the finer aspects of this movie is that it made fun of all the right stuff. By this I mean the irritating commercialized teen movies that we were subjected to in the 90s. Not that I think they were all bad, I liked American Beauty and The American Pie movies but most of the rest of them were unoriginal rubbish.That was the main target of this film and it was great to see that. It also was nice to see the subtle references to the 80s teen movies that really pioneered that genre. I grew up on Weird Science, 16 Candles, Ferris Buellers Day off, The Breakfast Club etc. These are awesome teen movies. There are again obvious exceptions to this but a majority of the 80's teen flicks are just fun! They don't need to teach you how you need to feel about issues, they don't just blindly overlap one another in the way that a lot of ones of the 90's did. They just entertained us and we loved it.(Minor Spoiler) I like the re-creation of (arguably one of the best 80's movies ever) The Breakfast Club. The scene were Mr. Vernon (Paul Gleason) goes into the library to investigate a Rukus. That is hilarious. It was great to see Paul Gleason reprising that role. He nailed it! Twice to be exact. The cameo appearance by Molly Ringwald and her Dialogue/ reference to her own films was also funny.If you want a good sit down and laugh session, this is your movie. I'd recommend not showing it to the youngsters but it's good for those of us it's intended for. If you're tired of same old same old high school flick, this is a well deserved jab but done light-hearted. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie I've Ever Seen!","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I saw previews for this movie on TV, I thought it looked like a cheap knock-off of other spoof movies and it seemed pretty cheesy. But I was sitting at home watching HBO one day and it came on. Out of sheer laziness, I just laid there and watched it, and I swear I did not stop laughing once. My roommate actually came into the room to see what I was laughing at, and I said, Ted, you have to watch this movie the next time it's on! Needless to say, we watched it every time it came on TV after that first time, and it quickly became my favorite comedy of recent memory. Although my friends disagree, I rank this movie up there with Dumb and Dumber and Airplane as the funniest movies of all time! "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was far more enjoyable than I'd expected. I saw all the signs on the side of the bus years ago, so I thought it would be funny, but I didn't expect to be crying. My wife and I spent the whole movie pointing out the references to the movies it parodied. It was on TV tonight, and now we're wanting to see it again. The rest of this review is just filler because for some reason IMDb doesn't allow short reviews. I have to fill in 10 lines of text in this input box, though it will come through as less than 10 lines in the version you're reading, at least on most people's screens.So, enjoy the movie! "},{"Title":"I've seen better","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie is of course exactly the opposite of what the title claims to be. This is a movie made for the teenage audience and it will be loved by them, no doubt about that. But there are more people in the world than teenagers alone and the question is Will they love it as well? Well, I'm in my late twenties and even though there were some funny parts in it, the entire movie didn't exactly convince me.Normally I always try to tell something about the story, but with this movie that is rather difficult, because there isn't exactly one. It's a mix of several smaller story lines, all based on popular teenage movies from the past twenty years (The Breakfast Club for instance is one of the oldest, but very easy to recognize). You'll see some teenagers trying to loose their virginity, some jealous cheerleaders, a jock who tries to make a prom queen of a poor and dirty girl because of a bet with his friends... In between you'll get some naked breasts, a toilet 'exploding', a lot of farting, ... you know the usual kind of 'humor' in this type of movies.Personally I'm not really a fan of all that toilet humor, but I know that many are. I'm sure that they will love this movie, but personally I've seen better before. I give this movie a 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"It wasn't......ordinary.","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a collective whole, this movie probably isn't as funny as I might describe it to a friend of mine. With that being said, I have to say that the parts I like had me LOLin! The exploding toilet was much and a lot of the nudity was gratuitous, but c'mon, what young straight male doesn't like gratuitous nudity... unless he's gay, not that there's anything wrong with that, but I liked the foreign nude girl. But that's just me. There were parts that could have went wither way for me, but as I said, the parts I loved were just hysterical and I still get tears just thinking about them. First, I love the phony American Beauty weirdo. I'm not...... ordinary. is hands down my favorite line. Then there's the part where the phony American Pie jock is singing all to himself like in the real movie. Or when Jake goes I don't want your life is exactly like Varsity Blues and Ron Lester as Reggie Ray/Billy Bob And Jaime Lee Pressly is hilarious. Cheertator and cheeronsequences and You put the brat in bratwerst had me rollin but my favorite is Oh it has already been broughten! And all these white girls going, We ain't white, we ain't white, we definitely ain't white is classic to me. And of course, Token Black Guy was all like D@mn! Sh!t! That's wack! So in closing, all I will say is that some of this movie is hilarious, some of it isn't close to funny, but the funny parts generally outweigh the bad parts.  "},{"Title":"brilliant humour.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know it's so easy to judge this sort of film. A parody about teen movies..doesn't sound too good. But infact it's brilliant! I honestly love this movie. It makes me laugh like hell. The acting is great with its timing,lines and faces. The jokes.. oh man.. there's so brilliant jokes in this film... But the whole trick to this film is that you have to loosen up a bit...don't take it so seriously. If you appreciate the simpsons episodes from the golden years( the new ones are crap! sad but true.) like seasons 3-6, and posses a twisted sense of humour like Conan O'Brien then you'll love the jokes in this one! I GUARANTEE! "},{"Title":"it had some fun points...","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  not another teen movie was kinda funny, if you saw the movies that they are making fun of, like never been kissed and she's all that. these movies were NOT from the 80's and the only movie that was that i could catch was pretty in pink. molly ringwald swearing really didnt make any sense to me, and the mean girl that was jakes old boyfriend was a great priss to have play the BAD AND MEAN girl, but that was it! the black guy saying i'm the only black guy was pointless and rude. the sexual inneundo was stretched too far, and like a rubber band, its bound to break sometimes. and some of the jokes werent even funny!  but i did find some funny points in the movie, which made me come across the grade i give it.. nothing higher or less.  (C- D+) "},{"Title":"Mildly humorous if you have seen most of the films they lampoon","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't think I laughed out loud once during Not another Teen Movie, but that is not entirely meaningful as I generally do not find standard comedy fare laugh out loud funny.  This was, however, fairly novel in its send-up of the stupid teen romance films of the last two decades and clever at times.  Unfortunately, most of the humor and `wink-wink' moments will be lost on anyone who hasn't seen the majority of these films, although I can't imagine someone who didn't have an interest in the inspirations for the jokes actually seeing this movie anyway.While watching, look for cameos by various stars of these teen romances &#150; most are handled cleverly.  --Shelly  "},{"Title":"So close, and yet so far","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The inspiration behind this movie had real potential, since many (if not all) of the teen movies made in the last decade or so are begging to be spoofed.  It could have been intelligent in its jokes based on other movies, but most of the movie is reduced to simple, childish humor.  There WERE some funny parts of the movie, and I'll admit I laughed at some of it, but these instances were very few and far between.  So much potential for a spoof movie, and its squandered because the director, writer, or whoever was in charge decided the real money was in gross-out and infantile humor. Some of the jokes are funny, but mostly its just either gross, or boring.  Skip it unless you MUST see how they spoof the other teen movies.    3/10 "}{"Title":"Another pathetic and unfunny attempt at parody","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie follows the same guidelines as its predecessors, Scary Movie, Shriek etc. The jokes try too hard and often just fall flat, i mean we know teen movies are lame, but making a mockery of a teen movie which ultimately IS just another American teen movie is even more lame!This movie is particularly disgusting, using the old vibrator gag, and human excrement ending up all over people.In the end, i can note three funny parts 1) The folk singing albino was good 2) The Evian water on the dress scene 3) The main guy character singing janey's got a gun lol. That one has me laughing now even when i think about it.but that pretty much summarises the good jokes in this movie.in the end its just predictable, we know the jokes because we all have made fun of teen movies on our own before!How i wish for some intelligent parody "},{"Title":"SCARY MOVIE IS NOT EVEN CLOSE TO BEING THIS GOOD.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   Most of the movie is true on how they are trying to say how teen movie are so stupid and have alot of coinsidences.But anyways this movie rocked and had laughs in a out.If u like scary Moive you will love this one cause its just plain funny.i give this movie a 10/10 i would give it a 11 but we cant so bye.imdb is the best "},{"Title":"BEST MOVIE EVER","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've never laughed harder watching a movie than when I saw this for the first time and I've seen plenty of funny movies.  I can't believe that the ratings for this movie are so low.  It should be at least a 9(personally I gave it a 10).  The only explanation I can think of is that viewers haven't seen the movies that it makes fun of.  I watched it for the first time about two months ago.  I watched it for the second time later that night.  Then I watched it twice the next day.  You all should be ashamed of yourselves for not giving this movie a 10.  . "},{"Title":"not another good movie.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE would be a hit. The only things that get a chuckle or two is when they parody 80s teen movies like Breakfast club,sixteen candles,pretty in pink... And Randy Quaid is also exceptionally funny. The best sene is when Molly Wringwald makes a fantastic apearence as a flight attendent. Just before you even see her, she says, Flight 193 is now boarding, so if your trying to stop a girl from going on the plane and staying with you instead now would be the time.! She also has a good line just before she leaves. Chiler Leigh is also in it who is on that 80s show. The thing that would have made it 50% good, is if Anthoney Michael Hall was in it. But watch out for a sign in the movie that says,Anthoney Michael Dining Hall!  "},{"Title":"If you've seen the trailer, you've seen the movie...","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A spoof on every teen movie made in the last ten years.  There were no surprises and the movie delivered almost what was expected.  Perhaps there was an expectation of more side splitting laughs, but it was just an above average comedy.  Some pretty dry humour throughout, at times lending itself to a complete spoof e.g. Naked Gun, but it never really got there.  I would wait till this one hits the video store though ... 90% of the funniest scenes are seen during the trailer. 5/10 "},{"Title":"So-so parody but originals were better","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This parody of teen movies is sporadicaly amusing, though the original films were more entertaining. Primarily the film is a takeoff on She's All That but it also copies from 10 Things I Hate About You, Never Been Kissed, Varsity Blues American Pie and Can't Hardy Wait (with Lacey Chabert doing a dead-on impersonation of her former Party of Five co-star Jennifer Love Hewitt) among others. Most of the casting is good, though Jamie Pressley as the cheerleader is not a good copy of Kirsten Dunst's Bring It On role. If you have seen all the films I've mentioned, you might get a kick out of this movie.. Otherwise you wont much care. GRADE C- "},{"Title":"I did not know Teen Movies were so rich in culture","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting a spoof of *all* teen age movies (not just (mostly) the John Hughes' films of the eighties).  I was surprised to find that they apparently could not even cram half the classic gags I have seen into a 90 minute movie.  Although there was too much repetition of some gags, such as the pining guy (my term not theirs) getting into to many accidents, ala Scary Movie, I sorely missed the following gags  1) The (female) shower scene; 2) Bullies beating up the nerd; 3) Bikini top stealing dog; 4) Nude beach scene; 5) pulling pranks on the police/principal/(or any authoritarian figure); 6) Blowing up the mean guy; 7) White people stuck in a black bar; 8) Catching the adults having sex; 9) the wasted druggy; 10) the chicken race; 11) a few outer space aliens; 12) embarrassing the prom queen/ snooty girl by stripping her naked in public; 13) the Nerd getting the sexiest girl in class; 14) panty raids; 15) video cameras in the girl's locker room/dorm/bedroom; 16) the shy kid that has sex with the hottest teacher in school; 17) up the skirt shots, skirt blow ups, etc--They need to make a movie that spoofs the real classics of teen movies.The adults in this film steal the show (Especially Molly Ringwald)!  "},{"Title":"Dumb Dumb movie but still funny","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie is one of the dumbest movies I've seen in recent history. The plot is nonexistent , very tacky and the actors seem bored in their roles. But the movie is so dumb it's funny, the writers do anything for a laugh and the cast seems to go along with it. Chris Evans comes off like a dumb Chris Klein in the lead role as Jake but the hottie Chyler Leigh as Janey saves this film. She shows good acting chops in this hard to save flick. Cerina Vincent also saves the flick as a naked foregin exchange student as does Mira Kirshiner & Jamie Pressely, although I wish Jamie would have gotten naked. Check this one out with friends though. "},{"Title":"So so spoof","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie is the hit and miss spoof of the teen 'comedy' genre of the late 90's, spoofing films in the same fashion as Scary Movie did one year earlier. A lot of Not Another Teen Movie feels forced, and some of it is just too silly for words, but other moments are genuinely funny and some of the actors shine in their roles. But in the end, Not Another Teen Movie almost seems to become what it strives to make fun of, another teen movie, with jokes aimed strictly for 12 year olds.For the most part, Not Another Teen Movie seems to spoof She's All That, with the same central plot, a hot shot high school jock is dumped by his girlfriend and so decides to make a bet that he can take the most hopeless girl and turn her into prom queen. Along the way, the film spoofs just about every other late 90's teen flick, and film references all over the place. In the final act, the film seems to almost directly follow the plot of these teen films, offering only a few 'new' moments for the audience to reflect on. For the most part, these teen films that the movie spoofs are just about as funny as Not Another Teen Movie. At times, it really is hard to see the difference between a Varsity Blues and a Not Another Teen Movie. They're almost identical.Some of the cast shines though in their roles, Randy Quaid is solid as always as the no name soon to be prom queen Laney's drunken father, and there are funny references and quotes here and there and funny cameos by Molly Ringwald and Melissa Joan Hart, poking fun at themselves. The script is at times quite weak, but some of the duller moments in the film are made a bit brighter by some of the actors. The film's jokes also variate, going from strictly disgusting, gross out, and low grade, to a silly slapstick brand of comedy.In summary, Not Another Teen Movie is no Airplane, not even a Scary Movie, but some funny moments make up for the weak talent behind it all and prevent it from being another Spy Hard or Silence of the Hams. It suffers from some central flaws, and is inconsistent, but is not the worst way to waste 90 minutes, and there are enough moments in here to make adult film buffs chuckle.5/10 "},{"Title":"This was a truly funny movie!","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best part of this movie, was the main character, Jake.  He was so suave. I guess he was supposed to be spoofing Freddy Prinz Jr., who I could care less about.  Randy Quaid played the Cousin Eddie character from the Vacation flicks.  He was classic and very perverted with his daughter, played by Lisa Loeb.  This was a fun movie with sex gags every three seconds.  The extra features on this DVD were very good.  I actually found them to be very educational in terms of filmmaking, if that's your hobby or whatever.  To sum it up, this is funny and very perverted.  Lots of toilet humour and a VERY sick scene were a 70 year old lady french kisses a 21 year old hot chick.  In the commentary, the old lady apparently enjoyed the NINE takes it took to get that scene right.  haha. "}{"Title":"A very poor movie indeed","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The film is supposed to make fun of lame teenage comedies like She's All That, American Pie, even back to The Breakfast Club (although I kind of like that one). Why? Those are comedies in the first place. If a comedy is unfunny, then what are the chances that its spoof will be funny? There are maybe one or two small laughs in the proceedings. The opening scene, where the main character is caught playing with herself by first her father, then her brother, then her grandparents, and then her priest is pretty amusing, if foul. That's probably the least disgusting joke of the whole film! The younger boys are pretty funny. Cody McMains, who plays the main character's little brother Mitch, looks like he might be Judd Nelson's son, especially in the homage to The Breakfast Club. The `token black guy' is pretty funny. When the characters all go to a party, he has to approach another black guy who has showed up first. `Excuse me, I am the black guy in this movie.' `Oh, sorry,' the other black guy replies, `my mistake.' Mr. T and Molly Ringwald appear in truly uninspired cameos (do teenagers even know who they are?). Melissa Joan Hart, the star of She's All That, appears, probably to inspire nostalgia from the uber-young audience. I'm just normal young, and I'll always think of her as Clarissa. 2/10. "},{"Title":"So Lame","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was so lame. I didn't like it at all. One or two funny parts throughout the movie, if you call it funny. Depends on what you think is funny. I would give the whole movie a 1 out of 10. It just pokes fun of the other movies. The main plot is from two movies they use like shes all that and 10 things i hate about you. Don't waste your money to see it. Wait until it comes on Digital cable. Don't order it through ppv or renting from a store.  "},{"Title":"Mostly embarrassing and often plain idiotic","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a parody. That means, there are no characters as such, they are all plain stereotypes, and the movie relies completely on the quality of the jokes.Well, there ARE quite some good jokes in this movie. Unfortunately, they are hidden in a mass of real stupid ones. If one expects all dialogues to be absurd, the fun wears off.You see, there is American Pie 2, my all time favorite teenager movie. It contains a lot of real original characters. Maybe the jokes are tasteless, but all the people have some kind of live. For example, they feel embarrassed if something embarrassing happens. That is what makes the jokes themselves actually funny !Not so this movie every scene is clearly arranged as a pure parody, so there are no characters at all, therefore there is really no room for any sympathy. Too, if you know the original movies, you know whole scenes in advance. Add the fact that many jokes are not funny at all, and you have this movie.The only thing that saved me from getting completely bored where in fact the comments from some teenagers in the cinema where I was watching the film.Ah, and my personal highlight of the movie was the very short appearance of Melissa Joan Hart in one scene. Sigh. She is just too cool, she can't be real. Hmm, worth a whole movie ?  "},{"Title":"It stinks","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  `Not Another Teen Movie' was another horrible 2001 film.  I went to see it expecting a lousy movie, but emerged from the theater still awed at how crude and worthless it was.  The jokes were mostly tacky, blatant sexual humor, seemingly geared towards pre-teens.  There were a few funny jabs at recent teen movies, such as the razing of Drew Barrymore in `Never Been Kissed' through casting an elderly woman to play an undercover reporter at the high school.  One takeoff of `Ten Things I Hate About You' where the protagonist football player tries to win over Chyler Leigh's character by singing `Janie's Got a Gun' in the football stadium is pretty entertaining, but probably loses some of its value on people who aren't Aerosmith fans. The only part I really enjoyed in `Not Another Teen Movie' was hearing occasional bits of my favorite 80's songs, but when I looked at the soundtrack none of them were listed, so I don't think a great deal of thought went into it. Junior high school students might enjoy this film, as would anyone who liked `Scary Movie.'  However, anyone who doesn't enjoy low-budget spoofs should probably stay away from this one.  "},{"Title":"Pity the person who paid to see this...","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How lousy is the writer who can only find endless perversity, nakedness and excrement funny? Having to watch through this film was one of the worst wasted times of my life. The writers & directors must've gone through a stack of porn flicks and B-movies to come up with this pile of dung. I pity them...Oh, and I loved Dude, Where's My Car?, so this one just really sucked. "},{"Title":"Like chocolate cake, you like it, but don't want to acknowledge the fact because it is bad for you","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps we should thank the idiots that  brought us American Pie for this slop.  While parodies have always been one of  my favorite forms of criticism, this film really  doesn't add anything to the genre. It turns  into what it was trying to make fun of just  another R-rated schlock-fest designed for  teens even though they couldn't watch it  (technically). I sometimes wonder whether  society will ever be healed of its ill-will for  such bad movies. The day the parody genre  can reinvent itself is a day that won't come  soon enough. "},{"Title":"About ten years past its prime, and even then its victim to its own satire","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie is an American Pie-style satire of the sex/teen comedies of the 1980s. It includes all the stereotype characters - The Jock, The Geek, The Cheerleader, The Spoiled Stuck-Up Princess (I can't use the real word), The Foreign Exchange Student and the Token Black.It is quite funny at times but once you get past the basics - for example, the obvious stereotypes - there's not much there. It falls victim to its own satire - it becomes another teen movie, loaded with sex gags, stupid characters reminiscent of American Pie and some lame R-rated crudity that isn't nearly as funny or risqué as it thinks it is.If you're just looking for some skin this has it, and plenty of it, but you can do better by just going and renting any '80s movies - heck, Sixteen Candles had nudity and it got away with PG, just imagine how all the R-rated movies were. (Maybe you don't have to imagine, maybe you've seen them all already - in which case you're sadder than I am.) If you're looking for a sex comedy, American Pie, Porky's, and Animal House are funnier. If you're looking for clever satire, this isn't it. It's smug, self-conscious and contrived - it's also ten years late and no doubt most teens aren't even familiar with The Breakfast Club, Mr. T, Molly Ringwald and Paul Gleason anymore. "},{"Title":"Don't Quite Understand...","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What I don't quite understand is why this movie has such a low IMDb rating. This is one of the top 10 funniest spoofs ever made. In about the last 10 years no movie has been able to touch the brilliance of Not Another Teen Movie. In the last 10 years, most of these so called 'spoofs'(if you want to even call them that)go off of a popular movie, and then they make jokes about that movie, but not about the popular movie itself, the jokes are made to what is hot and hip and in the now in our modern day culture. For example, Epic Movie plays out The Chronicles of Narnia aspect, but yet they don't make any jokes ripping into the Chronicles of Narnia, instead it has the Centaur rapping to a popular song while he's showing his crib off to the girl. Basically what they're doing is mixing The Chronicles of Narnia with MTV Cribs and Rap videos. It's not funny though because it's not relevant to the movie itself, which is The Chronicles of Narnia. And the reason it's not relevant to the movie itself is because it is mass produced puke that's been spat out by 4th rate writers who can't write their way out of a paper bag. So most spoofs nowadays use this type of formula. Using pop culture within the moving they're suppose to be spoofing and it doesn't work, it's very stupid and unfunny. The only one that kind of worked with this style, and only because it made fun of the movies it was going after(at times) was Date Movie. And the only times that Date Movie was funny was when it made a joke relevant to the movie it was making fun of. And this is the exact reason Not Another Teen Movie is so freaking hilarious. It's first rate writing, actually some brilliant writing, mixed with some pretty good acting believe it or not. There are no cheap laughs or pop culture b.s. within Not Another Teen Movie. Every movie Not Another Teen Movie plays off of, it makes some great observations and relevant inside jokes towards that movie that it's making fun of and because the jokes make sense in their relevant nature, it's hilarious. Not Another Teen Movie doesn't go for the cheap joke, it's written so good that it doesn't have to go for a cheap joke that doesn't make any sense. It makes fun of everything from American Pie to Never Been Kissed. It also makes fun of She's All That a lot. Not Another Teen Movie points out how obviously beautiful Rachael Leigh Cook's character was in She's All That and the writers drive that point home with the hilarious spoof they do on the scene about the bet of picking a girl to be this years homecoming queen. Then Not Another Teen Movie makes fun of Varsity Blues, and they drive home the fact of how ridiculous it was to leave Reggie Ray(his name wasn't Reggie Ray in Varsity Blues, but it's the same actor) on the field and they also make fun of how many concussions he has left until he goes into pretty much a coma. Then they drive home that fact with Reggie Ray even more when the coach says 'Can He play?' 'He's Unconscious.' 'But Can he Play?' 'I don't even think he can breathe.'And Not Another Teen Movie doesn't just stop there. It makes fun of the movie process altogether. As one of the football players on the field in Not Another Teen Movie has a jersey on that says on the back of it 'Extra'. Hilarious stuff. This movie goes so deep and rings true on all levels that it goes after. Every joke is pretty much a hit, where as nowadays with the spoofs that are made, every joke is pretty much a miss. Not Another Teen Movie spoofs a lot of popular movies and it points out the ridiculous nature of all of those popular movies and because that ridiculous nature rings true and makes sense(And that's been the main problem for the last 10 years on spoofs, they don't ring true or make sense to the movie they're making fun of/spoofing on), it makes Not Another Teen Movie a classic! And one of the top 10 spoofs, in my opinion, of all time. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like a good spoof, but dear heavens, there have been some very poor ones in recent years. So I am pleased to report that this is one of the better ones. And there is a very good reason for this - most of the jokes are actually funny. It's amazing how much of a difference that makes in a comedy.if you have ever seen a teen movie (and, if you haven't, why are you watching this?) then the plot is going to hold few surprises. In fact, calling it a plot is stretching things it simply links together a series of variations on episodes from assorted teen movies, the main one of which is the transformation of the geek girl from She's All That.As well as the young cast, there are some seasoned players here, and they're not all slumming.This was quite good fun. "},{"Title":"This Movie was OK!","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is the first parody made off comedy movies. This movie was released maybe a year after a classic parody, Scary Movie. The only thing is I couldn't tell which movies. I only saw the American Pie and Breakfast Club parodies. Even so, this movie wasn't as funny as I expected it to be. I did have a few laughs, but not a lot.This film is basically about a high school jock who made a bet to turn an ugly girl into a prom queen nominee.One character I was really annoyed with was that girl's brother. I wanted to punch him in the face because it looked so appealing to do so. He was really annoying.Overall, this is an okay spoof. The Scary Movie quadrilogy is much better though. I would see those first. I rate this film 6/10. "}{"Title":"Not Another Teen Movie","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Spoof movies are a love/hate relationship, some are funny and some fall flat on their face. But the one's that fall flat always have memorable moments. Luckily, this is NOT one of those movies. This is a great spoof! The only thing is, it's a spoof movie. Spoof movies now tend to fall flat. And although this one surpasses, it does have SOME qualities that other spoof movies has.The movie does have one thing other spoof movies doesn't, CAMEOS. Molly Ringwald, Josh Radnor, Mr. T, and Randy Quaid (although its not really a cameo.) The movie is basically the Shawshank Redemption of spoof movies. If you enjoyed the original Scary Movie, Naked Gun, or Airplane. Give this movie a try "},{"Title":"Actress in the pink top","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Does anybody know who the actress is that appears at the house party just after the 3 characters walk into the house? She has a tight pink spaghetti strap top on and she's holding a red cup. I have tried looking for her name on DVD's and nothing. You can also go to you tube and look at clip 5. I wish this sight could get the names of all people in the movies because I find that more often not, I see an actor or actress in a movie and cant find their names because they are not listed anywhere. I was under the impression that all actors had to be credited but maybe I am wrong. I did like this movie a lot. if anybody could help me find the name I would really appreciate it. "},{"Title":"A true sign of how much parody movies have lost their roots","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I will admit, the first time I saw this movie, I thought it was hilarious. The second time I watched it (usually this is when I start analyzing movies a bit more) I didn't find it very funny, and saw basically how poorly this movie was written.First off, this is not a parody or spoof. A parody would be a movie that had its own storyline, had subtle, though possibly slapstick, references to the movies or movie genres it is parodying. It does not mean simply taking an existing movie script and inserting fart, sex, drug, and pop culture references.If you have a token black guy, the audience will generally get it. He does not need to announce in every scene he's in that his only purpose is to be the token black guy. Nor do they need the hot foreign exchange student to state that she's there to be the hot foreign exchange student. If they have that role in the movie, anyone who's seen American Pie, or is at least aware of the whole Nadia thing in that movie, will get the joke without having it shoved in their face. In the same way, the wise old janitor scene could have been funnier if Mr.T had not said, I'm the wise old janitor. Other non-subtle jokes that could have been done away with or changed The names should not have been so close to the characters they were making fun of (Janny Briggs=Laney Boggs, Amanda Becket=Amanda Becker), and less direct, scene for scene parody. In my humble opinion, if a scene for scene parody is in a spoof like this, it should be of a movie from a completely unrelated genre or, if it is from the same genre, it should be brief (example, the Lady and the Tramp scene in Hot Shots Part Deux and the I loved you in Wall Street part). To sum up my problems with this movie, it needed to be making fun of the genre of teen movies, not directly every movie in the genre.There were some funny moments in the movie, however. The Janny's Gotta Gun scene was actually funny. When the principal remarks, Who would have thought that everyone in this school is a professional dancer? was actually quite brilliant and is exactly the type of subtly that a parody needs.In summery, this was a good idea that was, unfortunately, poorly executed. If Zucker and Abrams Productions get their footing back and return to their roots (as they have recently fallen into the scene for scene non-subtle reference parodies as well) and make a second installment for this movie, it could actually be pretty good. "},{"Title":"Not Another Teen Movie!","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" At John Hughes High School, the students are the same as just about every other teenager in a teen movie. The popular jock, Jake, takes a bet from Austin, the cocky blonde guy, that he can transform Janey, the pretty ugly girl, into the prom queen before the prom. But two people are trying to stop Jake from succeeding his evil sister, Catherine, the cruelest girl in school, and Priscilla, the bitchy cheerleader.So, I think, if I'm not mistaken, this movie are written by two of the six writers from Scary Movie, which had become a successful franchise. This is similar to another two writers from Scary Movie to write Date Movie and Epic Movie. Well, we all know taking only two writers of a successful franchise isn't enough to make a funny movie.Although being R rated, this film acts like a PG-13 teen movie. The sex and crude jokes are still in here. The fart jokes and toilet humor is still in here. The only thing different is that it's not funny. Most of them aren't funny.So many jokes in here falls flat while some might give you a chuckle. The reason some jokes won't work was that they were already used in Scary Movie (sad, isn't it?). Another reason is that some jokes have already been used in other famous comedies (like Airplane!).The only jokes that will give you laughs is the fact that this movie spoofs teen movies, trying to make it obvious the use of clichés used in these movies, which I like. I actually like it a lot, and I wanted a lot of those in the movie. That would've made the movie worthwhile.The last 30 minutes of the movie is probably the best part of the movie, which is why I didn't give it a lower rating. The last 30 minutes of the movie is trying to be like the movie that they are trying to spoof, meaning it's trying to be like another romantic teen comedy, starting from losing the girl, and ending with a happily ever after ending.There's nothing new here, except the blasting of the use of clichés used in other movies. I'll try to be lenient and say give this movie a rent if you have nothing else to do. I especially like the musical dance in one part of the movie. "},{"Title":"Not another teen movie comment.","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" MY RATING **/***** Contains sexuality and extremely unfunny jokes, that some viewers may find depressing.What sucks more than anything else is that my whole review of this film can be summarised in just one line of what James Berardinelli said This movie understands the concept of a spoof, but not a satire. A lot of new shows seem to be doing this. They understand that it's funny these days to be slightly post-modern, being a comedy/actioner/whatever whilst simultaneously mocking the incredulity of its own events.But they don't understand that unless there's a good movie behind it all, then it just all turns into tedious, random, almost hurtful jokes that ultimately make you wish you'd rented something else. If the writers clearly don't care about the material, why should you? 'Not Another Teen Movie' is a spoof of twenty years worth of teen movies. The plot is chopped together from the various classic teen conundrums that have enchanted us over the last two movie-going decades the bet that backfires, the ugly duckling story, the horny high schoolers and their attempts to get laid etc.The problems in this movie start from the minute the titles roll. I get the feeling the script was written by a bunch of guys remembering the most famous scenes of all the teen movies they had seen, and saying Hey guys! I always thought it would be funny if instead of going to the prom with Jenny instead of Katalin, he ... farted in her face and threw a used condom in the face of her strict religious mother! Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha! Hence, Not Another Teen Movie is basically one scene repeating itself over and over again for ninety minutes. We'll be presented with an instantly recognisable scene, either by use of similar-looking actors (the American Pie sketches did this a lot) or memorable dialogue (for example the Bring It On spoof about being in a 'cheerocracy.') Then something crude will happen, more often than not involving oral sex and/or more oral sex. Or the disabled, or issues of discrimination. Ha ha ha.Such an approach might have worked if the screenplay could have been kept tight, with a small number of memorable characters. Instead, Not Another Teen Movie makes a mission of trying to visit every teen movie that was ever released. Think you're a film buff? Think again. To understand even half of what's being spoofed, you need to have seen more films than Roger Ebert. Too often, the audience is dumped into a scene that makes absolutely no sense at all to the uninitiated. And yet other movies that were primarily spoofs, such as the excellent Airplane! and Naked Gun series, avoided this problem altogether by coming up with witty, original material, and putting in a movie reference whenever the opportunity obviously presented itself.Nonetheless, the makers of Not Another Teen Movie have certainly put together something that will make idiots laugh, and in turn bring in more idiots see it. It's just a pity that beneath the fart jokes, it's so cynically, desperately unfunny. "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I personally enjoyed most of this movie. Not Another Teen Movie is one of those movies where you sometimes cringe from the gross humor, but it also has some good written scenes. It's spoofs movies from the 80's and 90's, so it's not based only around the 90's teen movies. It spoofs such movies as The Breakfast Club, Pretty In Pink, Varsity Blues, Ten Things I Hate About You, and the movie they spoof the most, She's All That. Joel Gallen is the director for this movie, and I have to say, for his first movie, he did pretty good. Some parts are hard to watch though. Like the scene when the 3 teen boys climb through the vent, trying to spy on girls in the locker room and bathroom stalls. They end up spying on a girl going to the bathroom, and fall through the ceiling into the stall, where they fall into a classroom, where the poo shoots out from the toilet onto them. It is a pretty hard-to-watch scene, but most scenes are funny, although I wouldn't recommend this movie to older adults or younger kids. The actors perform pretty well, with some good cameos, especially from Molly Ringwald from The Breakfast Club. All in all, I would rent this if you're looking for a pretty funny movie, but with some occasional dirty humor and some female nudity. "},{"Title":"Funny but nothing to get excited over","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie is one of the movies you would talk about with your teenage friends and laugh over (ironic). If you pay attention to detail, there are a lot more funny bits about it, although there are plenty of funny moments even if you didn't catch the little extras. The gorgeous girls are the best part of the movie (and I'm sure the girls think the guys are good looking also). Chyler Leigh plays Janey Briggs, Jaime Pressly (my favorite) plays Priscilla, and Mia Kirshner plays Catherine Wyler.This movie got a 7 out of 10 from me. Younger viewers will give it higher ratings than most of the twenty year old's, but it will all even out in the end. Good to rent, your choice if you want to keep it or not. "},{"Title":"Who is this movie for?","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Parady movies are sometimes very difficult to make, and are certainly hit or miss. For every Airplane, there is a Loaded Weapon. But one of the problems with parodies, are that it requires the viewer to be familiar with the spoofed movies.Hence the problem with this movie. Yes, it has some funny scenes, including a few laugh out loud ones. (as well as some jokes that fall extremely flat). However, this movie spoofs American Beauty, Better Off Dead, Can't Buy Me Love, The Breakfast Club, Pretty In Pink, and Cruel Intentions. Just what demographic watches all those movies? As such, this movie struggles to find an audience. Because there are not enough funny jokes to sustain it, I give it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Not Another IQ missing movie...","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you've seen Dumb Dumber/Waterboy/Scary Movie 2 and liked them, then see this movie - otherwise if you're a sane person (and most likely not an American), then you'll have no clue just like me why producers continue to do garbage like this. I'm still amazed to see how many ppl there are from mainly the U.S. that likes this movie! - haven't you been potty trained like the rest of the world when you were kids? Have your parents glorified pooping and peeing? Have you ever had a serious relationship, or are you still giggling when you're seeing a bit of naked flesh from the opposite sex? Or is it just that you're grown up by reading/watching dumb-ass comics instead of reading real books that makes you appreciate films like this????I'm by far no over-serious or stiff person, I love comedies like 'Friends','Monthy Python','There's Something About Mary','Four Weddings And A Funeral','Simpsons' etc. etc. - but all these movies/series have a _heart_ and/or a story to tell, no matter how hilarious/stupid they might seem at the first glance. Comedy is so much more than just trying to make up a hilarious situation by adding fart-noises into a scene, which the producers of this movie just doesn't seem to know..But 'Not Another Teen Movie' is just the story made up by ppl who haven't passed being 4 years old in their mental age, kinda tragical actually, especially knowing that there are quite a few ppl out there that actually appreciates this garbage... "},{"Title":"Better Title Not Another Sucky Movie!","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just so you people know, I'm not slamming this movie because I'm a fan of teen movies and feel that spoofing them is somehow like blasphemy to a sacred cow. I KNEW it was going to attack the teen move genre, which was why I wanted to see it in the first place. I also wanted it to be good, and sadly it wasn't. My, how I remember the trailer for this If you liked 'Scary Movie,' Who cares? Well, I liked Scary Movie MUCH better than this clunker. It had all the elements that you'd think were ripe for hilarious spoofing, and yet they became irritating rather than funny. The heroine of this movie is Janey Briggs(Cheryl Leigh) the Pretty-Ugly Girl, who's a combination of Andie from PRETTY IN PINK, Laney from SHE'S ALL THAT, and Katrina Stratford from 10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU. Surprisingly she's also a bit of Jim Levenstein from the AMERICAN PIE trilogy because she jerks off to teen movies. You've got to give her some credit for being in touch with her sexuality at such a young age. Her father played by Randy Quaid is a much more humorous version of the  freaked-out Vietnam Vet from THE WILD LIFE, and the Obsessed Best Friend is a totally psychotic version of Jon Cryer's Ducky. Malik(Deon Richmond), the Token Black Guy obviously does nothing more than spout urban catchphrases, and exists in this movie for no other purpose, which is obviously the point. Actually, he shares in the bet with Cocky Blonde Guy Austin(Eric Christian Olsen) that popular Jock Jake Wyler(Chris Evans) will turn Janey into the Prom Queen after losing Nasty Cheerleader Priscilla (Jamie Pressly) to a freak with a camcorder a la RUSHMORE. Lacey Chabert does a stunning mockery of Jennifer Love Hewitt from CAN'T HARDLY WAIT, but the only reason she was so good in this movie is that she was so gorgeous.The detention scene where Paul Gleason reprises his role as Richard Vernon, was such a disappointment. I really expected more from it, but if you've seen the trailer, you've seen the whole segment, and that's all you're going to get. The only decent part was the end, and not because it meant I could finally leave the theater, but because it had a not-so surprising flight attendant at the airport telling the hero and heroine how they're foolishly living out every lame teen movie cliche that has ever existed, and should resist the urge to do so. She's not the only cameo. Melissa Joan Hart plays a nameless girl who keeps trying to give an idiot advice on when to start slow clapping routines.The idea behind a parody is to make the genre it's spoofing look idiotic, not to look idiotic imitating said genre. It does have it's moments though, but most are already in the trailers and they don't measure up to the ending. "}{"Title":"Godawful!","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm out of words. This movie is actually worse than I thought. And I thought it would be utter sh!t. It's in fact so bad that I have to make up new words to describe the pure atrociousness of it ultra-crappy-king-of-garbage, uckog in short. And yes, this really is uckog. The story is a parody of several movies I already hate, and I hate them even more now, because they gave inspiration to this uckog. Every joke is a sex-joke, every sex-joke is useless. This would be okay if the movie wasn't an attempt at comedy, unfortunatley it is, therefor it's full of jokes. Therefor i hate it.The fact that I only smiled once should speak for itself as this is labeled comedy.Of course there are other things that will make you want to swear your face blue almost everything else. And what are Molly Ringwald and Randy Quaid doing here? Destroying there careers?The only thing that made me give it a 2/10 was The beast from Yucca flats and Mr. T who appears in a short role. Mr. T is at least a bit cool. Otherwise it would get a flat zero.True uckog. 2/10  "},{"Title":"Pretty lame stuff","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie and convinced myself for awhile that it really was funny, but recently I realized that I was lying to myself. I saw this only one time -- when a college friend of mine and I used free passes to see it about 2 years ago. I never felt the urge to see it again because much of the humor simply wasn't funny. I can say that I only laughed at 2 or 3 parts1) When Mr. T makes a cameo and the theme to The A Team is played. My friend and I got a good laugh out of that, though absolutely NO ONE ELSE in the theater laughed -- I assume they were all high school aged or just beginning college and didn't understand the dated joke.2) When one of the characters is running outside dodging cars and passes by Spicolli's Television Repair Shop. I remembered Jeff Spicolli in Fast Times at Ridgemont High saying his father was a TV repairman so I found this to be a bit of a chuckle. Again, the joke is very dated and I think I'm the only one who noticed it.3) When the cast is singing and after the song they stand there like morons wondering what to do next. Great parody of Grease. I don't remember if I actually laughed at the theater, but I know I later found it funny after some thought. It mocked the reality (or lack thereof) in musicals. What exactly DO they do after the song is over? The deification (I just like using that word now) of Grease and its music was never ridiculed better.Anyway, skip this movie. It simply isn't funny enough to buy or rent. You're better off watching Crank Yankers or the Chappelle Show for better (and more) cheap laughs.  "},{"Title":"Not Another Flop!","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be the dumbest movie I have ever seen! I don't even know where to start. Ok honestly, I wasn't shocked after seeing it.  You can pretty much expect this kind of movie to be dumb, but sometimes I think it goes a bit too far (toilet exploding scene...was that really necessary??) Although dumb CAN actually be good at times (remember Dumb & Dumber?) in this case, it's not.The sad part is the concept of the movie is good and it had great potential to be funny.  Instead, the script is awful and the acting is even worse. I think that if the movie attempted to make spoofs of, say, 5-10 movies instead of like 42, it would be a bit more bearable.  There was just too much going on to enjoy it (if that's possible).There were two scenes in the movie that I thought were actually funny. One of them is a spoof of She's All That when the jocks are looking for a geeky girl as a project for the lead character to make over into a prom queen.  After passing up an old Albino woman, Siamese twins, etc. the guys finally pick the pretty ugly girl. And of course the lead jock tells them no way, she's got glasses and, and...A PONYTAIL!!! The second scene is a spoof of 10 Things I Hate About You when the jock serenades the pretty ugly girl (named Janie) by singing Janie's Got a Gun. I actually laughed out loud during this scene.So basically I think they should cut out these two scenes and make a new movie with them in it.  The rest? trash...Maybe if the writers spend more than a weekend on writing the script it will turn out decent.  "},{"Title":"Go rent it if you wanna see poor jokes!!!","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a huge movies fan so let me tell you this frankly I heard about this movie for the 1st time from Marilyn Manson's related news saying that he made a cover-song soundtrack for this movie called Tainted Love I heard a song then I saw the music video and by seeing the video I guessed this movie would be something absolutely TEEN film for sure! I also guessed it would be kinda comedy - - - big laugh - - -. I didn't see American Pie but I really thought it'd probably turned out to be similar to it and at that time I thought OK. even it feels a little bit strange to see Manson made a soundtrack for this kinda movies. That's all I know for base.I can say I didn't go with high expectation at all! But, yeah...I did expect much for a lots of laughing and this movie totally DISAPPOINTED in me because it's totally not hilarious at all!!! Repeat, not at all!!! Go rent it if you wanna see poor jokes. Plus, they played only an intro of Tainted Love in the movie.Anyway, personally thanks 2 surprises for myself. One go for Sam Huntington I saw him for ages in Detroit Rock City and really miss his act. Two go for Good Charlotte I've heard they made soundtracks but didn't know they also be guest for this film *smile*      "},{"Title":"Haven't a script? - No problem, steal someone else's, call it satire.","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A drunken trawl down teen movie street with all clichés from cheerleaders, over-age students, football games and rebellious students carefully acknowledged and framed.The kind of movie that leaves you feel short changed even if you are watching it on a cable station paid for by someone else. This is not only very short, but so short on originality that the authors have probably only had to write two pages of it themselves. Teen movie's have always been cheap and cheerful products at the best of time, usually including nobodies that are grateful to have jobs and a range of stock characters. Look over the wall at your local college and see the drab clothes, the acne and the awkwardness of the real thing and you realise that reality wouldn't leave the written page. Teen college movie's are not about teens but life in college if the leaving age was 24 and contained nothing but showbiz wannabe's in make up and wonderbra's.From the earliest intro shots (various kids going to school - rich, poor, stupid, slut, etc.) you know this is going to be a shooting fish in a barrel exercise, with the fish anaesthetised in case they move around too much.Don't think for a second I didn't laugh, because I did, token blacks and cheerleaders with tourettes were both funny. As was the foreign exchange student that walks around nude to inflame lust in the boys that can't get American pussy. - Although the joke idea was stolen from Kentucky Fried Movie.So its stupid, sexist - only the sexism is disguised as jokes about sexism - and crude. Toilet gags are just vile and don't make anyone laugh other than the very worst element in society. There inclusion show that the producers are laughing at the clichés, but can't think of anything better to replace them. Not a terrible movie and probably near mediocre if you have seen the products that it is supposed to satirising. I have to report - in sadness - that I have. "},{"Title":"Where is the line?","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some people might have different ideas of where the line is, but I personally believe that where ever that line is, this movie crossed it. While parts of do have an element of entertaining value, much of the movie spends most of the time trying too hard, and is over the top and just plain stupid or sick.  Not worth it.  "},{"Title":"funny if you saw all thse movies","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh wow-I was rolling at this! Thought this was a TRUE parody movie-being someone who LOVED these 80's movies-watching this was a joy.My major complaint was there wasn't enough parody-the mvoie should have gone on longer and I can think of some doozies to parody that WEREN'T done. Now even though I liked this, I could easily see why others wouldn't especially if they were not fans of such movies back in the 80's. To me this was almost like a roast-only instead of roasting a person they rasted a particular type of movie-few comedies have had me laughing this hard-and I didn't even get ALL the jokes!Basically-this is love it or hate it-it is not the type of movie I had though I'd like-I did not care for american pie and I just didn't expect this to be as uproarisly FUNNY as it was-still for those who haven't seen the movies it may not seem all that funny-still I have no complaints about this movie-I love all types of movies from thrillers to dramas and period pieces to love stories-but as good tribute comedies goes this movie rocks! "},{"Title":"Teen spoof can't pull off SCARY MOVIE's specific wit","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie (2001) Chyler Leigh, Chris Evans, Jaime Pressly, Mia Kirshner, Eric Christian Olsen, Eric Jungmann, Deon Richmond, Ron Lester, Cody McMains, Sam Huntington, Lacy Chabert, Randy Quaid, Paul Gleason, Mr. T, Molly Ringwald, Melissa Joan Hart, Sean Patrick Flanery, Jarrett Lennon, D Joel Gallen. On a bet, the high school jock (Evans) sets out to woo the class ugly duckling named Janey (Leigh) and then make her prom queen. After years of ridiculing teen movies, it doesn't get any better than this in a scruffy send-up of recent and John Hughes teen movies as when SCARY MOVIE successfully spoofed the slasher genre. But it's less funny than what the advertisements illustrate, more like stupid and crass with only a couple of funny sight gags (ex Anthony Michael Dining Hall, John Hughes High School) that can't get past the gratuity and literal bathroom humor. Originally entitled as TEN THINGS I HATE ABOUT CLUELESS ROAD TRIPS WHEN I CAN'T HARDLY WAIT TO BE KISSED, but should have been Americanized to what the Spanish in their country called it NOT ANOTHER DUMB AMERICAN MOVIE. Running Time 90 minutes and rated R for langauge, nudity, some drug use and strong crude sexual humor. **	 "},{"Title":"nothing beats the original","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie is spoof of the teen comedy genre, satirizing many of movies including American Pie, American Beauty, Breakfast Club, Bring It On, Clueless, She's All That, Road Trip, Can't Hardly Wait, 10 Things I Hate About You, Never Been Kissed, and etc. I found this movie mildly funny, but this was another piece of garbage onto the teen comedy trash heap. If you have seen those above mentioned films you probably have seen or will watch Not Another Teen Movie, but I wouldn't recommend it to the average movie watcher looking for new laughs.  "},{"Title":"Definitely not my idea of a great comedy","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really can't understand the idiotic title. Not another teen movie? I mean really! Just another teen movie sounds much more appropriate and realistic to my ears. Of course this is a parody of teen movies and sometimes it even manages to be make a decent fun out of some corny teen movie clichés. Couple of times I surprisingly found myself smiling and well, even very shortly laughing at it. However I personally hate teen movies and the only reason I saw this was the fact that my friend suggested we should watch it and I was way too polite to say no and bit too drunk to concentrate on anything intelligent. Experience wasn't far from being bloody awful but I still live and in the end that's what counts.  "}{"Title":"Unsuccessful,unfunny teen comedy parody","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsOne of the main problems with Not Another Teen Movie is that it tries to satirize films that were already meant as spoofs to begin with.This never works,and this movie certainly doesn't.There's lots of comic potential in the film,but sadly,it's all done with such flat delivery and lack of panache that the only thing you're wishing for by the end is that there will be Not Another Lousy Sequel to Another Crappy Teen Comedy.* "},{"Title":"some how I found this funny","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Most of the jokes in this work. And I know some of them I didn't even get because I think some of the parodies came from films from the 80's that I have never seen.  But, a lot of the skits come from very recent movies. You definitely need to have seen all the recent teen films to find this movie really funny.  And I love how they make Janey the popular/pretty girl simply by removing her glasses and letting her hair down. I mean, one of the problems I had with She's All That was that Rachel Leigh Cook is already hot; she's already prom queen material.  So, the play on that movie was very funny.If I had to pick a favorite skit, I'd have to say the whole Ferris Beuller part was histerical.FINAL VERDICT  Funny and crude.  If you have seen all the recent teen movies, then you will like it a lot more if you hadn't seen them.  I recommend seeing this. "},{"Title":"UGGGHHHH!!","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For those of you that liked Scary Movie that waste your breath on this piece of garbage. It should have been called `not another bad spoof.' I don't know how it's possible to make a film worse than the genre that you're trying to mock. But they've succeeded marvelously. What's worse than that is that it took SIX writers to come with material that anyone with half a brain and a bag of weed could written in ten minutes.The basic `storyline' follows the plot of She's All That which was a pathetic update in and of itself of My Fair Lady But that's whole other review. A popular good-looking guy takes a wager on making an ugly duckling into a beautiful swan. Not Another's main targets were films such as The Breakfast Club and American Pie. Other such teen fare like 10 Things I Hate About You, Varsity Blues and Bring It On were thrown in for bad measure. In it's defense there were a FEW gems in the movie. The `token' black guy whose role is blatantly played for laughs was done perfectly. And foreign exchange student who walks around the whole movie (or should I say all 3 scenes) completely naked. There were others but they're fed to us so stingily that it feels like Chinese water torture by the time you hear them. Some of the cast themselves were dead-on look-alikes for their teen idol counterparts. With the acting ability to match. The concept indeed had merit, but in the clumsy hands of the director you can never squeeze more than a chuckle out of ANY scene. Even for a teen movie the acting is terrible, and the material was impotent.The writers attempt to bludgeon the audience with bad taste and profanity. Apparently to compensate for their complete and total lack of originality and wit. Finally Molly Ringwald was brought in for the coup-de-grace but little did they realize that their target audience is too young to even know who the hell Molly Ringwald is. This film should end up in Hollywood's detention hall. Forever.  "},{"Title":"No laughs to be found here","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is supposed to be a comedy, right ? How come I didn't laugh once then while watching it. Seriously though viewing this movie was one painful experience. I could not believe how un funny it was. For a movie that spoofs teen comedies you would think they would have put in a much better effort than this. It seems that no effort was put in at all really. The movie that's spoofed most often in the film is Varsity Blues. Varsity freakin' Blues ? Why the writers and director chose to parody a horrible movie so many damn times I have no idea. I'm not gonna comment on the actors too much because they have such bad material to work with maybe there's some potential there I don't know but I doubt any of them are destined for big things. I'll even give the director another chance but the dudes who wrote this crap should never be allowed to work AGAIN in Hollywood. They blew it big time.    "},{"Title":"more than ok","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My friend recommended this, and I never got a chance to see it for a while, and when I was staying with friends for a while, (they were away for one night) I saw this in the movie store. They had wanted to see it too, so I rented it. It was very good, and I liked how they actually labeled people on the front, but I didn't see how Bruce was the wannabe, and Ox was the sensitive guy. Anyhoo, this movie was good. I liked it alot, and one reason I particularly liked it was because there were many characters, and there weren't a few that were main. In some movies, they just make a few main characters, and then everyone else is just extras. I hate when movies do that. Well, to be honest, Janey, Jake, Priscilla, Catherine, Mitch, Bruce and Ox were main. (Notice that's alot of them.) "},{"Title":"Not another Scary Movie (thankfully)","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let's be honest, half the reason you watch a movie like this is in order to catch all the references and feel pleased doing so (Anthony Michael Dining Hall, anyone?). What this movie did well (in parts) was taking set-pieces from other teen movies, and combining them seamlessly. The opening scene is a good example American Pie plus, incongruously, an inverted Sixteen Candles.The movie started to lose steam during the party scene, followed by the musical sequence and the prom (part of the problem being, unfortunately, that a lot of these bits had been in the trailer). The parodies were lifted directly from a single movie and added nothing new. The ending did redeem the movie somewhat, with Janey's geeky friend getting beaten around, and with the Molly Ringwald cameo.All in all, much better than Scary Movie. Parodying the first generation of teen movies (as opposed to just those from the last few years) really helped broaden its appeal. "},{"Title":"Tepid","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Of course, all this nonsense begs the question 'Does a genre as self-referential as the teen comedy really need another parody movie?' The woeful 'Scary Movie' (I and II) took the formula about as far as it could go - 'Not Another Teen Movie' really doesn't have anything either intelligent or shockingly excessive to add.The plot, essentially based on fairyfloss teenflic 'She's All That', walks a shaky line between parody and homage ('John Hughes High School'). Everything from 'American Beauty' to 'Varsity Blues' is mined for references. The result is ultimately an unfulfilling viewer experience. The downside of giving us a carbon copy plot of 'She's All That' is that we all know where its going anyway. And if we didn't then the jokes would be meaningless.There's extremely little to recommend here. The token gross-out scene (an erupting toilet) seems badly out of place here amongst all the 'feel-good' references. There are moments of humour - the song is funny enough and the odd good line is send the audiences way. It stinks, don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Bland","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Taking a page straight from SCARY MOVIE, SPY HARD and every other parody movie, NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE requires one to forget that there are more important things in life like money, time, sanity and finding a smart girl in your life. The idea is as unoriginal as it gets but you can see some genuine fun from the cast which is about as much credit as this poor excuse deserves.Popular jock makes a bet with friends to help fix up a girl for the prom. Problem? This girl chosen has, (GASP!) glasses, a pony tail and paint covered pants!Ridiculously dull and bland. After the opening, the only thing keeping this viewer going was catching the parodies, even when they weren't worth finding. Catch fast for an uncredited appearance that I'm pretty sure every other 'viewer comment' will contain. Just boring. "},{"Title":"Not another parody is a better name.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  **Starring Chris Evans, Chyler Leigh, Eric Christian Olsen, and Deon Richmond.I've got a really interesting question.  How does a movie that parodies another joke that was good from another movie supposed to be funny.  They make *fun* of the opening sequence of the embarrassment of Jim in American Pie.  Now, you see, that was already funny and it wouldn't be funny if you make fun of it.  Now for the actual movie.  It *is* another teen movie.  Just with a few spoofs added into it.  A jock tries to turn a nerd into prom queen.  That sounds awful familiar.  Can you say She's All That.  The only really saving grace was the Token Black Guy, the other black guy at the party, and the Stupid Fat Guy.  Where other parodies succeed, this one fails.  Mildly recommended. "},{"Title":"American Pie was Better!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not another teen movie is just like watching another Scary Movie. And to tell you the truth, I'm not a big Scary Movie fan. so I wouldn't be that big on this film either.  The film was just another spoof movie about teen jocks and geeks. I think the only good teen movie was the American Pie series, they were at least Funny. This movie had a lot of stupid jokes and dumb humour. The way they describe High School I would say is pritty acurate now a-days. So I guess it was fun to see people making fun of high school behaviour. I think the only really funny guy in this was the token black guy, he was at least decent with the jokes. I give this Teen Spoof a C "}{"Title":"What?","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not a remake of She's all That ( 1999)?Where is the renewal of the american movie? This was probably the worst movie I saw in the last 5 years. This and the last movies of Schwarzenegger. "},{"Title":"If you remember the 80's...","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie is, er, another teen movie.  just with added gross out humour. Trying  to do what  Scary Movie did for horror films -Not Another Teen Movie (NATM) bolts the plots of She's All That and Pretty In Pink together, throwing in scenes from just about every other film ever to feature teenagers. Spoofing characters from Breakfast Club, American Pie, American Beauty and Cruel Intentions and with one called 'token black guy', this is not high brow entertainment. It is however vaguely amusing - and if you were one of the sad people who spent the 80's watching all those John Hughes films starring Molly Ringwald you'll find yourself trainspotting all the references to them. Unfortunately, even having one of the best ever cameo's in film history (Molly Ringwald herself, looking a bit old now, who turns up and complains about teenagers today) isn't enough to make this a 'must see'. You'll laugh - but be prepared for some seriously bad taste jokes about vibrators, incest and diarrhoea. You'll see some hunky blokes and well fit females (including the foxy foreign exchange student who spends the whole film in the nude and even has her subtitles arranged around her obvious selling points). And as I said there are a million references to other films - its just that NATM walks the fine line between parody and rip off and too often it falls off the line on the side of cheap rip off. The working title for NATM was 'Ten Things I Hate About Clueless Road Trips When I Can't Hardly Wait to Be Kissed', very droll. Joel Gallen who directs should be ashamed of himself because he has made some excellent promotional material in the past including the superb 'Mission Improbable' where Tom Cruise sends himself up with the help of Ben Stiller as 'Tom Crooze' for the MTV video awards 2001.The NATM soundtrack is pretty cool though featuring re-workings of classic 80's tracks like Tainted Love, Blue Monday and 99 Red Balloons by Marilyn Manson, Smashing Pumkins etc. So in the end what could have been a really funny night out ends up being a bit of a lame er, teen movie. Maybe the sequel will be better?  "},{"Title":"Some funny shit","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some very funny moments in an otherwise utter waste of time movie. Probably would have been better made about five years ago, as a fellow poster suggested. Funniest bit has to be the ongoing spoof of CRUEL INTENTIONS. Not sure how much grosser teen comedies can get, although they sure keep trying. The fact that Jamie Presley is the biggest name in this flick ought to tell you something. All that's missing is a cameo by Pia Zadora. "},{"Title":"Everything is here gross stuff, bad acting, funny moments and lots of hott women.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *SPOILERS* Okay, NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE, was a film that I thought would be a monumental hit. Especially since it disses SCARY MOVIE in the trailer. It tries much to be like SCARY MOVIE, but fails. Instead, NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE creates its own story up and forgets about spoofing teen movies and just makes its own stuff up. I have to say that the girl who plays the foreign exchange student is one of the hottest women that I have seen in a long time. Her and Lacey Chabert who plays the perfect girl and the girl who has the role of playing the cruelest girl in school. All of them are hott! Now, getting back to the movie, there was some good humorous moments and moments that made me laugh. But, then there are moments when the movie tries way too hard to be funny. And those are the times when it fails. And let me say that I was disturbed at the kiss between the cruelest girl and the undercover reporter. That was a major turn-off for me there. But, I was still impressed. Some of the humor was good, the plot was a little original (unlike SCARY MOVIE which followed the plot of SCREAM exactly and only changed one little thing at the end) and there are a lot of hott women! I give it 5/5 if, for no other reason, than all the hotties in this film.  "},{"Title":"A Hilarious, Disgusting, and Great Parody Of Teenage Movies Over A Period Of Twenty Years!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      May I say, I loved this movie a lot. It was really funny. The cast wasn't well known, but wasn't that bad. The only kind of known cast member was Jaime Pressly. The rest of the cast wasn't known greatly, but weren't bad actors. Joel Gallen directed the movie pretty well for his first film. I liked this movie so much, I bought the special edition DVD and it has a whole lot of special features. I also loved the opening scene of the movie parodying American Pie with Chyler Leigh who plays Janey Briggs, it was so disgusting though, yet it was really funny. I myself thought Scary Movie wasn't nearly as good as this one. Also, I liked Jaime Pressly's spoof of Bring It On when she says Oh, it's already been broughten!. That was a hilarious line. I loved this movie. I highly recommend it. I give Not Another Teen Movie a 10 out of 10!!!! ) "},{"Title":"this movie stunk big time","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  WARNING THERE MAY BE SPOILERS!First of all I spent nearly $80 on this movie just to walk out in the middle of it..and getting stuck with paying for it. Even the young kids --ages 16-19 thought it was rather stupid.. gratuituous nudity, kissing scenes..thats amore! Some people have time and money to spen watching movies like this one, and several of the other movies they were depicting, which were like around 40 all together, and it is an ashame, so much money wasted on no talent films and you wonder why these people have to complain that they are broke later in life.. "},{"Title":"Three Minutes of Original Screenplay","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This should be the sub-title of Not Another Teen Movie.  I expected some clever spoofs and gags from this film, but I left the theater knowing that I would never regain the hour and a half I wasted watching it.I generally love movies of this genre, including Scary Movie and Scary Movie 2, but this movie was not even funny.  The director and writers, to use the term liberally, thought that by merely re-creating scenes from popular teen movies with different characters, we would love this film. However, I was not so easily duped.  The mere fact that they use a clip from Pretty in Pink before spoofing it, caused me to have a bitter taste in my mouth.The best thing I can say about this movie is that I viewed it using gift certificates I received for Christmas.  I definitely would not have wanted to spend my own money on it.2/10 "},{"Title":"'Not' as funny as the trailers make it look! spoilers","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From the trailers for NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE, it seems like this is just another teen movie spoof that also happens to be a teen movie. It tries to spoof teen movies, but gets stuck in the midst of being one. It claims to being making fun of cliches and it is, but it is also contains the same cliches in the movie as well. Between the constant cliches that the movie is supposedly spoofing, there are many crude sight gags that fall as flat as can be. There are a few good jokes, but for every good joke, there are a hundred bad ones. Two stars at most. "},{"Title":"Not Smart Enough","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is trying to make fun of numerous teen movies; primarily She's All That, Varsity Blues, and American Pie.  There are jabs at probably a couple dozen other movies.  I'm all for making fun of movies, and certainly there is a lot to make fun of in some of these films (Down to You I'm looking at you).  But in order to make fun of a film, you yourself have to be smarter than the subject matter you are mocking.  And I'm not entirely convinced this film is there.The potential for truly intelligent satire might have been here, we'll never know.  The biggest problem is the creators truly underestimate their audience.  After almost every joke, there is an explanation for the joke. For example, in one of the few smart bits, a character tries to start a cliched slow, building applause.  But because he does it at such an inopportune moment, it doesn't work.  Very funny.  But then a character comes over (Oddly, Melissa Joan Hart in a cameo) and explains that that won't work now, and he's got to wait for the right moment.  Very unfunny. Give us a little credit; we get the joke, we don't need our hands held.This hurts the movie because parody works best when its characters aren't in on the joke.  In Blazing Saddles, the townspeople don't go Oh that man is tricking us by holding a gun to his own neck.  They go Would someone help that poor man?!?  In NATM every character is completely aware of themselves, and so instead of building off of stereotypes, they are mired in them.  For instance, the black character knows he's only supposed to say silly retorts that add nothing to the conversation.  Funny when he explains it; not funny when for the rest of the movie he actually only says those three things.  Instead, why not have the character only say three things, and then have other characters question him on his bizarre behavior.  Same goes for Bruce, a white kid who thinks he is Chinese, funny at first, not funny for the last seventy minutes of the film.  The foreign exchange student character probably sounded funny on paper, but it's so over the top it's downright exploitative.I liked a few of performances; the character of Ox is an incredible impression of Chris Klein in every movie he's in.  And the film makes excellent use of its soundtrack; all the moments they are making fun of have the original songs in the background (Kiss Me when the ugly duckling walks down the stairs in slo-mo, for example).  It even has a cute song and dance number.In any case, there is potential here, and certainly a couple of big laughs. But the film thinks it is a whole lot smarter than it is.  I guess in that sense, it really IS just another teen movie. "},{"Title":"Hated the Movie, Loved the Band","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok first of all, the only reason i seen the movie was because of the camio of Good Charlotte. The movie was ok , but i was tired of the imature jokes and the partial frontal nudity by the time the movie was over. Basically if you love GC as much as i do you should go see Not Another Teen Movie and wait patiently for the prom scene. For all of you wondering what i am talking about the band at the prom is a real group and they rock.  "}{"Title":"Neil Moritz ends his run of hits by punching the auto-destruct button","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pitched somewhere between SCARY MOVIE and SCARY MOVIE 2in number of laughs garnered, NOT ANOTHER is like one of thoseamiable, Malibu-set, A.I.P. cheerleader movies of the lateseventies, with more skill. (Yes. I'll stand by that statement.) Itmethodically ticks off just about every contemporary teen picture offa checklist, from RISKY BUSINESS and PRETTY IN PINK down tothe scum of the last five minutes; and many of its laughs aregotten in the cheapest possible manner, i.e., dubbed on top ofunfunny material after the fact. (A fat guy who is literally split in twoduring a football game hears the following offscreen rejoinderHey, Nick, walk it off!) But laughs there are indeed; andheterosexual males will want to be advised that Jamie Pressleyreprises the climactic cheerleading routine from BRING IT ON, inan even more pornographic way. This makes up for potty jokes. "},{"Title":"BAD BAD and BAD","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know whats going on with spoof movies in the new decade and in the latter part of the 90's..SCARY MOVIE, MAFIA and now NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE..all bad..Whatever happened to the days of NAKED GUN and AIRPLANE???Save your money. I just saw this at an afternoon show and I say it was a waste of six bucks. Of course, Jamie Pressly is HOT as well as the her other two cheerleading friends, but if I want to see hot women, I'll go buy Maxim magazine. Some of the gags are funny. The opening scene is right out of American Pie but it goes downhill from there. The scene with Richard Vernon from THE BREAKFAST CLUB takes the dialogue almost exactly from THE BREAKFAST CLUB. I said to myself, hey this was funny in 1985. Even cameos by Mr. T and Molly Ringwald couldn't save this movie. It was simply BAD. (One star) "},{"Title":"If that's what you're into, it's o.k.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you take Not Another Teen Movie for what it is, a tongue-in-cheek, do-anything-to-make-you-laugh, gross-out teen comedy parody, then you will be pleasantly surprised.  If my rating were based solely on the teen movie genre, this movie would get eight out of ten stars.  Even the most sophisticated adult is forced to laugh at some of the ridiculously funny antics of this group of teen spoofsters.  Overall it's a pretty mediocre film but people aren't going to see Not Another Teen Movie looking for award winning actors performing an Oscar caliber script.  People go to see Teen Movie to laugh out loud at silly, inane jokes that help them forget about life for a while.As mainstream movies go, this is one the average movie goer would not usually pay to see.  It's for the late-teen and twenty-something crowd who enjoys potty humor like that found in the American Pie movies. Surprisingly, a lot of the jokes also appeal to thirty-somethings and may go right over the heads of the target audience.  If you are a fan of John Hughes' films you may find some of the send ups appealing but don't look for the well thought out plots and underlying feel good messages so prevalent in the '80s movies.  Not Another Teen Movie's plot was well thought out...by other writers of other teen flicks.  You've seen it all before but not quite like this.Teen Movie gets off to a roaring start with the first hilarious scene. It's a preamble to introduce us to the extremely poor, ugly/pretty girl, Janey Briggs (Chyler Leigh) and her family.  Her slightly psychotic, Vietnam veteran, alcoholic but well meaning father is played by the best actor in the flick, Randy Quaid.  Her geeky brother, Mitch, who along with his two best friends (Samm Levine and Sam Huntington) is desperate to lose his virginity, is played by Cody McMains.  McMains is the Anthony Michael Hall of the film who also gets a chance to be the cool Judd Nelson type in the Breakfast Club spoof which brings Paul Gleason back for his portrayal of Richard Dick Vernon, the principal.  Janey also has the devoted best friend, Ricky (Eric Jungmann), who is completely in love with her (think Ducky from Pretty in Pink).John Hughes High School plays host to the group of misfit teens who eat in Anthony Michael Hall (the cafeteria)...yes some of the jokes are just that blatant.  Teen Movie even shows scenes from some of the movies it's ripping off.  The plot, in fact, is ripped right from She's All That. Rich, handsome, arrogant jock, Jake Wyler (Chris Evans), the most popular guy in school, gets dumped by the trampy, stupid head cheerleader, Priscilla (Jaime Pressly) and makes a bet with his wealthy, attractive, cocky athlete friend Austin (Eric Christian Olsen).  Jake claims he can make any girl in school into the prom queen.  Passing up the hunchback girl and the Fratelli conjoined twins (they're joined at the head), Austin picks the girl with glasses, a pony tail and paint on her overalls, a hopeless case...yeah, whatever.Jake's psycho, incestuous sister, Catherine (think Sarah Michele Gellar in Cruel Intentions), played by Mia Kirshner, helps him woo Janey and eventually turns the ugly duckling into Cinderella.  Of course, like all other teen movies, it only required letting her hair down and replacing the geeky glasses with contacts.  Along for the ride are Jake's pals;  the self-described token black guy, Malik, played by Deon Richmond and the stupid fat guy, Reggie Ray, played by Ron Lester.  There are underlying tones of a football and cheerleading rivalry but possibly the best sub-plot is the trio of geeks on their quest to deflowering.  Sure, it's been done a million times  before, but it's never been done with quite so many twists. Mitch's quest leads him on a journey to win over the perfect girl, Amanda Becker.  This vixen is played by none other than Party of Five alum, Lacey Chabert.  My how she has grown!Not Another Teen Movie references every teen flick you can think of from the '80s and '90s.  It even goes as far back as the '70s for a Grease takeoff that includes a ridiculous ensemble musical performance (think Summer Nights and add vulgar humor).  Not Another Teen Movie's original working title was Ten Things I Hate About Clueless Road Trips When I Can't Hardly Wait to be Kissed, and that only touches on some of the films lampooned therein.  Others not mentioned so far include  Sixteen Candles, Risky Business, American Beauty, Bring It On, and Varsity Blues. There is even a nod for the not-so-teen-movie, Almost Famous.  One of the highlights of the film is a visit by the queen of the John Hughes' films herself, Molly Ringwald.  Another favorite is Joanna Garcia who played Sandy Sue, the cheerleader with Tourette's Syndrome.If crude, sexual humor offends you, this is not the movie for you.  In fact, the language is strong and very specific at some points...maybe too specific...let's just say some of it will make you cringe.  Teen Movie doesn't even bother to mask the nudity content with the pretense of teen sex.  Foreign exchange student, Areola (yes I said areola), played by Cerina Vincent, simply walks around naked throughout the film.  If you are Generation X or younger and you don't mind disgusting visual gags performed by a cast of gorgeous twenty-somethings pretending to be teenagers, go see this film.  You will laugh.  The first scene alone is worth the $8 admission.  While the plot is intentionally weak beyond compare, former MTV producer, Joel Gallen, makes his directorial debut by constructing a truly comical lampoon.  Teen Movie is what Scary Movie should have been.  4 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Makes its point.","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Some here have criticized Not Another Teen Movie for trying to hammer home the jokes -- treating the viewer like they don't get it... What we forget here is that the joke is that these kids in the movie have SEEN all the other Teen movies (this point is brought home quite well in the Molly Ringwold scene in the airport.)  This *is* the crux of the humour for the film... That said, it isn't a very strong punchline to play upon, hence why many of the jokes are very good sight gags, but little else.  When one goes to see this kind of film, you not only check your brain at the door but many of your other faculties too -- But -- if you're in for that kind of humour, you'll thoroughly enjoy the execution of this spoof.If you're someone who needs to find the deeper meaning, shop elsewhere.If you're like me, you'll give it 5/10.  Not bad, not great, not stellar, not memorable, not worth full admission -- but can be fun if you're in the right train of thought (which is -- none!) "},{"Title":"Pretty much what I thought it would be","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I didn't expect to like this film much.  I thought there'd probably be a few good jokes and that's it.  That's pretty much what this film delivered.  I suppose people who really like movies that get all their jokes from sexual situations and bodily functions would like this film more.  To me, that stuff gets old fast.  I think it would be possible to make a better parody of teen films.  This film does show some promise.  I liked the whole idea of the pretty ugly girl.  This is something that's used a lot on TV and in movies.  One problem with this movie is that while it's supposed to be making fun of teen films, it essentially IS one.  Overall, this movie wasn't terrible, but it could have been better.  "},{"Title":"Pathetic!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie when it first came out on video and was sorely disappointed. It was just plain gross and not even remotely funny. Not that gross is a bad thing. I happen to think that some of the grosser movies are also the funniest but this one was just plain sad. "},{"Title":"The point was?","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think the makers of this movie couldn't decide whether they wanted to make a parody or a homage to the teen movies of the eighties.  The result is a movie that kind of muddles along but never develops any strong focus or center.  A few of the gags were very funny, but some of the others were extremely crude and seemed out of place for what was a fairly tame movie.But it kind of occured to me halfway through the various references were for movies teenage kids probably wouldn't be familiar with today. *******Spoiler bit************The Breakfast Club and some others of Molly Ringwald's greatest hits are spoofed, yet the people who watched those movies as teens are in their thirties today and wouldn't be part of the audience this film would attract.  When Molly makes her cameo at the end I wonder how many people were going, Who's she?  Mostly this movie was a few laughs and then forgettable. "},{"Title":"75% stupid, 25% funny, but all in all, 100% bad.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  >>Pros Nothing>>Cons Everything>>Plot summary Not Another Teen Movie is a slapstick parody of famous teen movies from the '80s and '90s like The Breakfast Club, Never Been Kissed, She's All That, etc., that makes fun of the stereotypical Hollywood interpretation of high school, but does it with grossout humor.>>Review Not Another Teen Movie sounded good on paper and in TV commercials, but it's painfully bad.  I did like the idea of spoofing Hollywood's cherished stereotypes, but the producers just screwed it up by adding all that gratuitous potty humor.  I usually like slapstick comedies, but this one is just horrible.  Not even the cameo appearences by Molly Ringwald, Mr. T, and that one guy from The Breakfast could save this film.>>My last 2 cents This movie is best enjoyable on a Saturday afternoon when there's nothing on and you have nothing to do.>>My rating 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I HATE this movie","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'll get straight to the point This movie was bad. This movie was REALLY REALLY REALLY BAD! This is the only movie that made me want to vomit after watching it. Many of the jokes are so vile and disgusting that they negate all trace of humor that might have been in them. The parts that weren't disgusting were either mind bogglingly predictable or just plain idiotic (or, more frequently, both). And the movie's overall sense of smugness and superiority to all other teen films was not only completely undeserved, but the main reason for Not Another Teen Movie's wretchedness. When parody is meant to be funny, that's one thing. When parody is meant purely to be insulting, that's quite another.Two rays of sunshine The Token Black Guy was amusing. Also, Randy Quaid could have been MUCH better, but compared with the rest of the movie, he was fairly tolerable. These two were the only ones to make me laugh in the slightest, though mostly just to make sure I hadn't forgotten how. "},{"Title":"Where I believe this movie went wrong....","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I grew up with the John Hughes movies, and have seen all the movies being parodied here, including 10 Things I Hate About You, American Pie, along with the Scary Movies.  I'm one of the older teen movie fans, and I recognize a need to parody these things. John Hughes in particular could use a good roasting.  This movie did not do it.  If the filmakers needed some guidance, they could have done worse than read the Mad magazine versions they were trying to make fun of.  They could have hired some of the writers of the Mad TV show as far as that goes.  It wouldn't hurt the film makers of this catastrophe to read a few issues.  They could also benefit from viewing Airplane, Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein, Vacation.I'm sure this looked good on paper, and the previews had promise. There was one major problem.  It's not funny.  Comedy depends on the element of surprise, and anyone could have seen every funny bit coming a mile away. A parody, in theory, should make a least a point or two that wasn't already obvious.  It's true that the original films (talking about the Hughes films mainly here,) are really a self parody of themselves, particularily the costumes in Pretty In Pink, but you could say the same things about the Airport films parodied in Airplane, many of the westerns parodied in Blazing Saddles, soap operas and the more recent  Nurse Betty.  All those films are not just funny, they make a point as well.Humor is a relative thing, I believe.  I think many teens are amused by garbage like Not Another Teen Movie, because they have not yet had a chance to see as many films as the oldsters like me.  Perhaps ignorance is bliss, since it certainly takes a little more class and creativity to amuse my generation, but I don't think it's because we have no sense of humor. Check out the early Steve Martin films and some of the others I mentioned here, and I think you may agree we as movie goers who shell out $7 -$8 bucks a pop to see them at the local cineplex deserve better.  I don't like even spending $3 to rent a dvd this bad.  You know what might work?  How about a Mystery Science Theater version of Pretty In Pink?  I'd pay to see that, now, without hesitation.   "}{"Title":"Yes, another bad teen movie...","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"       What can one possibly expect from a film writhed with crude, sexual and perverse humor? The answer to that lies in one's expectations, yet there are certain limits to how far a film can go in terms of the aforementioned traits. Not Another Teen Movie starts off as a quasi-intelligent spoof of all the classic 80's films that paved the way for the movies of today. The film spares no expense at incorporating the iconic names of 80's film. From John Hughes High School, to the Anthony Michael Dining Hall, those intelligent elements wear off fast after one becomes accustomed to the tone of the film.       From the opening sequence of a young teenager pleasing themselves, a viewer knows exactly what they are in for. The childish and immature toilet humour may elicit a few laughs, but it wears thin by the 30 minute mark. The cast of relative newcomers have all had prior roles yet never seem to be fully comfortable with the filth that is transpiring on screen. While the movie did seem to be actually spoofing other films of the same vein and having a successful go at it, it all disappears as sex, lust and gross-out humour are at the forefront of this ridiculous little film.     Films such as Scary Movie 2 can not but be compared to because they are the same type of film. Yet, what Scary Movie 2 had was the intellect to understand itself and never take itself seriously. It knew it was a dumb film with no chance of having respect from the media and simply delivered one silly laugh after the other. Yet, with Not Another teen Movie, it actually does take itself seriously and seems confused between being a send up of 80's films or the benevolent idiocy of present day toilet films. Furthermore, if it wants to be a send up of 80's films, why are all the classic 80's tunes remade into grunge tunes?      All will have their own interpretation of the film and many will be appeased by the perverse humour, personally, as aforementioned &#150; it wears thin fast. Unfortunately, this film has to be classified under one of those &#145;seen the trailer &#150; you've seen it all' flicks. The gags suitable for the general public are all crammed into the trailer while the more immature smut is reserved for the paying audience.      From racist ideology to elders swapping saliva with young adults, this film will offend and besmirch many individuals. Many of which will say they had a laugh, but their lives were not made better for it.Giancarlo's Rating *1/2   "},{"Title":"She's All That on crack","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie can be summed up pretty simply - She's All That on crack.  This has to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  It's as if they just took the script of She's All That and stupified it with its lame outtakes.  There were very few redeeming qualities in this movie, and it was only with the cameos made by Mr. T, Molly Ringwald, Sean Patrick Thomas, and Melissa Joan Hart.  However, even these scenes were not worth the money paid to see this.  Do yourselves a favor and leave this one on the shelf. "},{"Title":"This movie is terrible.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To me this movie is just a waist of time. I was going to go see it at the movies but my friends talked me out of it. I should praise them for what they did. The movie is too rude and nasty . I thought scary movie was bad. Yeah right. This is not a nother teen movie. This is a movie that gives teen movies a bad name.You may not agree with me but this is my comment. "},{"Title":"Not A Funny Movie (or a very good one)","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I myself am a fan of raunchy movies like American Pie and spoofs such as Scary Movie (which I loved), but this one I just did not like. First of all, Not Another Teen Movie is NOT funny. You might get a chuckle or two out of ya but that's it, it tries to be funny but it's not (probably because everything has already been seen in the commercials). The spoofs are all overdone, there is NOTHING original and this movie is NOTHING compared to Scary Movie, at least it was well done, this movie is just a waste of time to watch. Do not rent it and if you want to watch a very funny spoof rent Scary Movie. "},{"Title":"What the hell was this?","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There has been only a few movies that I've actually found myself so bored watching. I only went because I got roped into going just because someone else wanted to see it. I tried to watch this movie, but after about a half hour or so it was just becoming dumber and dumber, and I spent the rest of the movie day dreaming (about any other thing in the world I would rather be doing.) This movie was so boring, I would rather listen to a 24 hr non stop lecture on the importance of algebra or watch those god awful public broadcasting channels than ever see this movie ever again. On the plus side the girls in the movie were good looking, but that's the only good quality this movie has to offer. A tip for watching this is to be as wasted as you can be, that is if it does not kill a perfectly good buzz on the stupid plot. Good luck to anyone who's brave enough to sit through this.  "},{"Title":"not a good teen movie","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie did not set well with me. What can you say about a movie where the vast majority of funny scenes had already been shown in the ads and trailers? It did have some funny moments, but I have seen better movies.** out of **** "},{"Title":"The horror&#133;the horror","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE &#150; 1.5 starsFor those of you that liked `Scary Movie' that waste your breath on this piece of garbage. It should have been called `not another bad spoof.' I don't know how it's possible to make a film worse than the genre that you're trying to mock. But they've succeeded marvelously. What's worse than that is that it took SIX writers to come with material that anyone with half a brain and a bag of weed could written in ten minutes.The basic `storyline' follows the plot of `She's All That' which was a pathetic update in and of itself of `My Fair Lady' But that's whole other review. A popular good-looking guy takes a wager on making an ugly duckling into a beautiful swan. Not Another's main targets were films such as The Breakfast Club and American Pie. Other such teen fare like `10 Things I Hate About You', `Varsity Blues' and Bring It On were thrown in for bad measure. In it's defense there were a FEW gems in the movie. The `token' black guy whose role is blatantly played for laughs was done perfectly. And foreign exchange student who walks around the whole movie (or should I say all 3 scenes) completely naked. There were others but they're fed to us so stingily that it feels like Chinese water torture by the time you hear them. Some of the cast themselves were dead-on look-alikes for their teen idol counterparts. With the acting ability to match. The concept indeed had merit, but in the clumsy hands of the director you can never squeeze more than a chuckle out of ANY scene. Even for a teen movie the acting is terrible, and the material was impotent. The writers attempt to bludgeon the audience with bad taste and profanity. Apparently to compensate for their complete and total lack of originality and wit. Finally Molly Ringwald was brought in for the coup-de-grace but little did they realize that their target audience is too young to even know who the hell Molly Ringwald is. This film should end up in Hollywood's detention hall. Forever. "},{"Title":"boring sluggish comedy thats not funny","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You people that wrote in and said that you LIKED this movie and then compared it to all the other cheesy teen movies--PG13  and above no doubt--whered you find the time to watch all these campy teen movies? It is amazing to me that someone attempted to spoof comedies, like sixteen candles and 10 thing i hate about you. I found the humour in this flick to be grotesque and vulgar. Scary Movie wasn't very much better. With a $37 million take this took in, plus the $100 million + Scary movie and Blair Witch took in apiece, it doesnt surprise me that stupidity sells movie tickets. The only thing I found hilarious was the promo for Austin Powers GOLDMEMBER movie..set for release on July 26 "},{"Title":"This was so bad","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  OK, first off, I am 18, have seen ALL the movies they spoofed (and enjoyed most of them), like stupid humor, and am not easily grossed out, or easily offended. So this movie should be perfect for me, right? No. It was awful. And I was not expecting oscar material. I was not expecting to leave the theater pondering this movie. But I was expecting it to be funny. It was not. My boyfriend and I walked out right when the popular jock was putting whipped cream on himself.This movie has so many flaws. First off, it is boring. They have too many characters, too many movies to spoof, and instead of flowing well, like Scary movie managed to do, all we see is this poor man's megamix of teen movies. This movie has no direction--all the scenes are jumbled together, and it comes out like watching splices of 20 different movies, thrown in no particular order. That just won't do. If you're going to spoof multiple movies, arrange them in a plot that works. You may have to forgo some of the movies and characters, cause there was just too much going on to be one movie.Secondly...and I will be comparing this to Scary Movie, because that's the only recent parody I know of. Scary Movie poked fun at a lot of things that are stupid about horror films. NATM seemed mostly interested in just re-enacting each scene (which was funny and probably polked fun at itself already), then taking it one step further. Well, you can go too far, and they did.Third, the so called actors, with the exception of Jaime Pressley, have no sense of charisma, or comic timing, or anything. The lines they said looked like they were read right off the board. It's like the casting director said, 'Oh, look, that kid at the Texaco pumping gas looks a bit like Freddie Prinze Jr., let's ask him to be in our movie'. The actors are TERRIBLE. Stifler from American Pie and Jay from the Kevin Smith movies can spout off a bunch of 4 letter words and have me rolling on the floor, but these kids can not. It's all about delivery. Basically, these kids don't got it.And, this movie is planning on drawing laughs mainly from excessive swearing and gross out situations. I already explained why the swearing doesn't work, and the gross out doesn't either. It was funny when we saw Jason Biggs get completely humiliated when he got caught gratifying himself. Having a cake explode on the character as well doesn't make it any funnier. Three boys witnessing the hottest girl in school have explosive diarhrea, then knocking over the stall is funny; having loads of human waste dropped on the guys additionally in this movie doesn't really add anything. Basically, the writers didn't get the joke.I know some will find this movie amusing, but I didn't. You really can't parody already-funny movies, especially if all you're going to do in this so called 'parody' is steal scenes from other movies word for word then add a gross out scene to it and some extra language and nudity. "},{"Title":"Sad","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" sad simply sad....who ever liked this movie i feel so so sorry for them.I only laughed 3 times in the movie. When you count how many times you laugh in a movie that is meant to be 'funny' then there is something seriously wrong with the movie.Yes certain parts were weird and nearly made me laugh but this movie is so geared up for the American market which has to be told in an obvious manner when to laugh during the movie.thank goodness i never saw this at the movies when it came out. It would of been a waste of my money and a waste of one and a half hours of my life. "}{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is long, boring, and not funny. It is one of the unfunny, uncreative, one dimensional, movies I can remember, and it's just generally.. well.. boring.Of course it's a parody of American Pie, etc., and thus requires basic familiarity with those films in order to get most of the.. ahem.. jokes.Right from the start, the shameless and unfunny toilet humor beings. We see a girl caught using a vibrator, a roomfull of kids get splattered with feces, a cheerleader with a case of.. er.. irregularity. Die hard fans of these teen movies will get the jokes but still not laugh... others may require medical attention. It's not really a movie, more like awful sketch comedy. Think of a poorly written, unfunny, boring parody of saturday night live.By the way, there is some quality nudity, though not enough to make this worth watching.This is another film, not unlike the horrid 'Freddy Got Fingered', that only dishes out one toilet humor or gross-out joke after another.I can't stress this enough. It's really, really not funny. (John Hughes High?) What do you know, there is a jock (who can't act, like the original) who makes a bet to transform the nerd into a prom queen. the nerd who's in love with the popular girl; the slut who tries to get her brother in the sack; the foursome of cliches wanting to lose their virginity; and the foreign exchange student who is only in attendance to walk around naked.Like many awful movies, the soundtrack is much better than the film itself. 'Not Another Teen Movie' plays out like an elementary-school re-enactment of American Pie, (with some more poo-poo thrown in).Some parental guidance should have been suggested for the filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Not even a little bit funny","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Gross, stupid, and yawn like humor.  Easily one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Poorly written, directed, and acted.  Material was crude, degrading, and pathetic.Avoid this movie at all costs. 1 out of 10 (because there isn't a zero) "},{"Title":"Look at the title - my sentiments exactly!","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I never loved spoof movies, and since Scary Movie they have only gotten lazier and lazier. Someone needs to tell the writers that cramming in as many pop culture references as possible isn't a joke in itself.It used to be that a spoof movie would take a well known scene and take it in another direction, with ideally humorous results. Now it seems enough that we the audience say oh they mean Hellboy, or this is that bit from American Pie. It doesn't have to be funny apparently. Worse still is that we now seem to have such short attention spans that referencing a movie isn't necessary, simply a viral video or recent event.I guarantee that (if it hasn't already happened) the next spoof movie will include- Christian Bale's now infamous rant. - Sarah Palin. - Britney. Duh! (Not Paris, she's too powerful.) - Swine flu, only it has been spread through sex with pigs. - Somehow Barack Obama will appear, and breakdance.. (you know, because he is black.)And so on and so forth, if there is an obvious theme there it should be that EASY TARGETS are the norm (just like Eminem. Oooh he's having a go at Kim Kardashian, that'll cost him!).Anyway, now to review this piece of crap, and when I say piece of crap NATM is actually one of the better spoofs in the last decade, that doesn't stop it from sucking though.Alarm bells ring with Randy Quaid's name coming up in the credits, though as one of the leading ham actors around he is ideally suited to this throwaway genre.Set in a high school, there is no plot to speak of, only the plots of other teen movies of course. Put simply it copies all the movies where the hot guy must take a seemingly unpopular and ugly girl and make her popular and somehow attractive.The chicks are normally Charlise Theron, Jennifer Connelly types - hardly ugly ducklings - at least NATM knows this. But once they make this clear there aren't any more decent jokes to come from the premise.I'll try to list some of the jokes derived from stereotypes - The undercover adult in school who is clearly 50+. - The American Beauty loner guy. - The young guys who wanna get laid. - The cheerleaders. - The eccentric but hopeless friend of the unpopular girl. - The bonehead but still popular football players. - And their coach who swears and shouts a lot. - The sexy exchange student, (who is nude the entire film).Now the three jokes I liked, and really the only three jokes I liked in the whole film.- Rather than white guys pretending they're black, one white student spends the entire film pretending he is an Asian guy. (An amusing concept not used in an amusing way.)- Every time something happens, a doofy looking guy tries to start a slow clap, only he never gets the support and embarrassingly must give up. (I hate the slow clap in the movies thing so I laughed, and as this was what the writer's aimed for I must give credit.)- Mr T appears as the wise janitor with some sage advice and the A-Team music plays, although most people watching the film nowadays might think Oh the guy from the Snickers' ad!, rather than a pop icon of the 80's.- I liked the nude exchange student thing, but it wasn't funny after the initial second. So you might have to guess why I liked it. (Hint &#x96; I'm a guy.)What more to say, the female cast is hot-hot-hot, but who cares? Jaime Pressley is the only recognizable cast member who isn't making a look at me cameo, and she's hardly a big name aside from My Name is Earl.There are about five so called jokes in the movie that you can't see coming a mile off, and when you don't see the punchline it invariably fails or falls flat. I hate the insinuation that we as movie goers should find any of this funny but even the cookie cutter crap Epic Movie, Date Movie, Disaster Movie bullsh*t still make money for the assembly line hacks that make it and have the audacity to release it each year.The fact is I haven't seen many of the movies referenced in NATM, but it doesn't seem to matter as most of the time I knew what they were talking about and didn't just care.Perhaps if you actually love those movies you might find some joy here, if that is the case, you are a sad strange little man, and you have my pity.Final Rating &#x96; 4.5 / 10. Better than many similar films in the genre, but that in itself is the faintest of faint praise. Avoid all of these and tell Hollywood to stop making them.If you liked this (or even if you didn't) try oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Some big laughs","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't pretend to be well versed in the kinds of movies that Not Another Teen Movie lampoons. I haven't seen any of John Hughes' teen-oriented movies, but some of the big ones from the nineties have made it on the ever-growing list of movies that I have seen. Still, like Scary Movie, which started the spoof craze (that has LONG since worn out its welcome) the humor is such that one doesn't have to view every movie that is skewered by the film.Not Another Teen Movie takes potshots at a slew of teen movies, but the story (if you can call it that--it's really just a clothesline to string the gags) mainly follows the plot of She's All That. Jake Wyler (Chris Evans) is the most popular guy in school. After being unceremoniously dumped by his equally popular girlfriend, Priscilla (Jamie Pressly), he makes a bet with his friends that he can turn any girl into the prom queen. The selection is of course Janey Briggs (Chyler Leigh, who is surprisingly on-target in her portrayal of Rachel Leigh Cook in She's All That). Of course, they fall for each other (duh!).Like all saturation comedies, the humor is hit and miss. Some of the stuff is funny, others don't work or are a bit too obvious. Even during the dead spots between the big laughs, there are always some clever asides that are amusing.None of the actors are big names (Mia Kirshner and Lacey Chabert made their names later on), and for the most part, it's not hard to see why. Chris Evans is one of Hollywood's big why's? He has little to no talent, yet he's making big money. Whatever appeal he may have is not on screen in this movie. He's more wooden (in a bad way) than the Freddie Prinze Jr., whom he's parodying, and he's too fatuous to be funny, even for a satire. More impressive is TV actress Chyler Leigh. She's one to watch. Mia Kirshner is solid, but not as deliciously evil as Sarah Michelle Gellar in Cruel Intentions (special note about this reference-it points out how twisted the plot of Cruel Intentions is). Eric Christian Olsen is annoying (Olsen CAN act, but just not in comedy). Special appearances from Randy Quaid and Molly Ringwald are good.The problem with the movie is two-fold. The film lacks focus and director Joel Gallen makes some of the gags far too obvious. Admittedly, the point of the movie isn't to tell a story, it's to rip other stories to shreds. Be that as it may, the film seems more like a series of comic set-pieces than an actual movie, something that didn't occur with the much funnier and successful Scary Movie. The other problem is more serious because it ruins many of the potential jokes. A degree of exaggeration is key for humor, but even that has its limits. Unfortunately, Gallen doesn't recognize this. Then again, with someone who's background is in MTV, I guess that's to be expected.It's no classic, but there is enough stuff to make it worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie! I'm 15 Almost, And I Found This Movie Rather Amusing. It's One Of The Most Funniest Flicks Ever!! No Jokes! I Recommend You Rent This Movie Unless You Get Offended Easyily Or Can't Take A Rude Joke! LOL Yes Well I Loved It And Its Now One Of My Favourites Along With A lot Of Other People And I Mean A lot. It Kind Of Has A Joke With Other Teen Movies. If You Liked Scary Movie 1/2/3/4 Or Date Movie Or 10ThingsIHateAboutYou, Then Yo'll Love 'Not Another Teen Movie'. Between Ages 12-25 Are Probably The Best Ages. It Can Be Rude At Some Parts Of The Movie, Including Nudity. It has The Best Humour, And Is'nt Alike Many Other Movies, How They Are Set Out. So If Your Looking For A Laugh, Or Mucking Around With Your Friends, Give It A Watch, Cause If Your A Teenager, I Hpoefully Recommend You'll Like It Too.MA15+ Thankx For Reading My Comment. Peace! "},{"Title":"Great, even if you don't know too many teen movies","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A really neat satire makes you laugh even if you're not 100% familiar with the material. In my case, Not Another Teen Movie makes me laugh even though I don't really know all the teen movies from the '80s and '90s (I know some, but I'm no connoisseur by any stretch). Obviously, as a spoof, no part of the movie can be taken seriously, but it's not just a series of gross-out scenes; there is actually a plot it's a convolution of football, relationships, detention...you get the idea.The only cast members whom I recognized were some of the people in supporting roles Randy Quaid plays the father, Paul Gleason repeats his character from The Breakfast Club, Mr. T plays a janitor, and Molly Ringwald also makes an appearance. A very perceptive way to do all this.Anyway, it's not any kind of masterpiece, but a fun way to pass time. One day, we're going to look back on all this and think Those teen movies really were meant to get spoofed! "},{"Title":"Another F*cking Teen Movie.....","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I went to the theater anticipating an anti-teen movie. Well, if it's one thing I learned from this movie it's that I was wrong. Dead wrong. The movie is meant to be stupid, yes that is true. But essentially this is a teen movie, and it takes teen movies to the extreme. Lots of toilet humor is embedded in this, and the producers obviously exposed themselves to those plagued teen movies. It was funny at some points, the plot was awful, they actually follow the rules of teen movies, and I've actually managed to erase the majority of this from my brain. If you don't wanna see another teen movie then don't rent or buy this. Rent or buy Hellraiser because that sure as hell (ha ha, I made a pun which was about as bad as this movie) isn't a teen movie. "},{"Title":"Juvenile, crude and just plain bad","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Parody movies, or 'spoof movies', can be quite educational from time to time; we learned from the 80's spoof movies, those starring Leslie Nielsen, that toilet humor and fart jokes were popular back then. We learned from the Scary Movie films that the Wayans' truly are talentless(well, technically, we already knew that... but those films proved it, once and for all). And the makers of this film learned(I hope) that it's a bad idea to parody comedies. Even if it is teen comedies that you are making fun of... which are(clearly) not among the most intelligent comedies(or films in general, for that matter). So, what is it exactly that we do have here? A plot that combines plenty of comedies that actually did have some(if not much) comedic relief in them originally... stapled together by some writers who were apparently not working together(judging from the disjointed feel of the scenes) and filled to the brink with toilet humor and overly crude gags and jokes... why is it that spoof movies must always put some out-of-place humor into it, instead of just making fun of the original movies? It would be so much more entertaining. OK. Back to the point. What else do we have? A cast of totally unknowns with a few actual actors in cameos. And a director who's done nothing but spoofs(mostly for MTV, which we all know rarely fail to deliver crummy teen-pop entertainment), most of which are short films... meaning that he was given feature film director duties for the first time(and those that have seen this putrid piece of... entertainment... know that he blew it). But that's not all; the film also offers a wide variety of bad puns, poor jokes, racial/gender-related/sexual/age-related/etc. stereotypes, age-old clichés and sight gags that are so bad that they have a serious chance of ruining your eyes and robbing you of your eyesight... which, if it prevents you from experiencing another second of this crap, might actually be worth it. This movie is just... bad. The humor is juvenile and crude, and all of it is painfully exaggerated. I recommend this only to teenagers who will watch anything... a group of people that I wish was very, very small, but know from experience, isn't. Sigh. If you can see this movie for free and/or you are forced to by one or more members of aforementioned group of teenagers, you might as well enjoy the sight of the lovely females... Jaime Pressly and Mia Kirshner are among them, and any guy who has seen them know how attractive they are. Apart from the sight of those two(and a few other young, attractive teen girls), this movie has nothing to offer. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Should have won Best Picture of the Year!","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This gem should have gathered several oscars in 2k1, it was that funny. Only Val Kilmer's Top Secret! was more amusing and maybe What's Up Doc?. I was hysterical all the way through with the references to other teen film really tickling my funnybone. Just got through watching Ridgemont High and this one was much more humorous. Better looking chix, too.  "},{"Title":"A Decent Comedy Unlike Other`s I`d Care Not To Mention.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is really funny at times taking the p**s out of most teen movies like comedys/thrillers(cruel intentions)/drama`s. it was stupid/taking the joke too far at parts but i suppose thats the way they wanted it to be it is good i enjoyed it it`ll be in my dvd collection but only for one reason and thats the actress Mia Kirshner (Catharine).the stand out characters in it were as follows (1) Mia Kirshner (Catharine) who played the Sarah Michelle Gellar ``cruel intentions`` part perfectly there`s a 99% match for the two of them i think which is not a bad thing in my books she`s a real beauty they couldn`t have chosen anyone better for this part ).(2) Chyler Leigh (Janey Briggs) she played the Rachel Leigh Cook character from ``she`s all that`` who fit`s the part really good.(3) Chris Evans (Jake Wyler) who is the Freddie Prinze Jr character & the Ryan Phillipe (not sure if this is correct spelling for his name) character from cruel intentions who was kind of funny at times.what i`ve noticed about this film is that the characters or the people who play them match the real persn or are better than the person they are supposed to be (the only better one is the Jake Wyler/Chris Evans character) the rest are just as good as the one`s they are supposed to be he`s better at that part than (F P Jr) is.as for a story line forget it if you want one watch something else this is for people who want a Laff and thats it nothing else which is does it makes you Laff at times. there were two incidents that stuck out in the movie (1) this guy who think`s he`s chinese (but he`s not) was at a party and he met two chinese guy`s and shouted ``what`s up chinks inda house`` and one of them just Jackie Chan`d him on the chin and walked away it was hilarious. (2) Jake Wyler was walking along the school hall/corridor and all these girls were throwing their panties at him and as he got to the end of the hall a guy threw him his jock strap.rating for this movie 8/10. rating for Mia Kirshner (catharine) 12/10. rating for Chyler Leigh (Janey Briggs) 10/10. rating for Chris Evans (Jake Wyler) 0/10 not my type but he was a Laff so i`ll give him 9/10 for being funny. "}{"Title":"Not Another Worthless Satire","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Can anyone do a decent spoof these days?! Gees, this movie was stupid! The jokes were so obvious. But I'll admit there were some scenes that were funny. But like I said SOME Anyway, my favorite part of this movie was that chick that appeared naked throughout the whole movie!Also look for some good cameos in this movie.1 1/2(*1/2)out of 4(****)stars  "},{"Title":"Gross, not cute.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie would be fun to watch as it sounded like a great parody idea, but this movie has to rank as one of the top 10 worse movies I have ever seen in my life.  It is not a funny parody in the slightest and instead is disgusting and revolting. "},{"Title":"worst movie i ever seen","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  man this movie is like the worst thing that i have seen in ages when american pie came out it was ok and pretty funny..but then all these teen movies..it just became sick.. this not another teen movie is even worse what i expected never go and watch it..because u won't laugh..waste of cash "},{"Title":"Not another teen gross-out","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Now, is it Not Another Teen movie as in, this is not your run-of-the-mill teenage fare, or does it mean, Oh please movie gods, no!  Not ANOTHER teen movie!  I opt for the latter.A short review take all recent (and even not-so-recent) teen-friendly movies and pervert them with gross, cruel and just plain stupid humor, and you have Not Another Teen Movie.  The concept might have been funny but the crude humor was such a turn-off that my stomach was too busy churning to achieve any belly laughs, or even a faint chuckle.  This IS another teen movie, perfect for immature adolescent boys.  I will give them credit for one thing, though -- I do not recall a single zit joke throughout the movie.  "},{"Title":"I want my two hours back","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not even the parts that were in the commercials were funny, which amazed me. I actually sat through half of the movie with my hands over my face because it was THAT bad.  I would definitely agree that this was the worst movie not only of 2001 but that I have seen in 10 years. "},{"Title":"Finally I agree w/The Critics (Worst Film of the Year)","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie was one of the worst films I have ever seen (Not as bad as Santa With Muscles or Battlefield Earth, but close). When ever I see that the critics hated the movie, I tend to enjoy the film. This was not the case. After an entertaining and humorous beginning (about 1st 5 mins. of the movie) the movie takes a nose dive. If this was a 90 min movie, 80 mins of it was a complete waste of time. On a scale of 1-10, I give this film a 2, and thats being nice. Do not waste 8 dollars to see this movie, or even 3 when it comes out for rent. Wait until it hits cable, then turn the channel. "},{"Title":"The worst","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie had no story line and found it to be quite boring and predictable.  Some scenes in the movie had nothing to do with the movie they just wanted to set up another joke.  The jokes were very unfunny and mostly predictable.  I felt ripped off and very disappointed that I wasted my time to see this movie.  "},{"Title":"What Else is Showing?","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is brought to us by the same people that did Scary Movie. But while that film was offensive and crude, it was at least creative and sometimes funny.  This film is even more offensive and crude (hard to believe, I know) but it's totally predictable and very stupid. It's obviously aimed at teens, who can't legally see it because of the very R rating (the theater was full of them anyway).  The 13 year old boys loved it, but I have a feeling their parents would be very troubled by that.  There is no plot or point. There are some talented actors in the film (not that you can tell) but what a total waste of their careers.  ANYTHING else showing at the theater would be better.  If nothing else is showing in your town, stay home and watch Lost in Space re-runs on TV - it would be a better use of your time.   "},{"Title":"This was a disgrace!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This could possibly be the worst movie I have ever sat through in my entire life.  The worst part?  It had so much potential!  I love cheesy-teeny-bopper movies and a parody of them could have been so much fun; an endless stream of pop culture references and brat pack memories would have made anyone happy.  But, aside from a few John Hughes references and a disturbing cameo by Molly Ringwald, this movie was nothing but stupid, crude, low-level humor.  I was ashamed to even be in the theater. "},{"Title":"Worse than Corky Romano.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I admit, I saw this movie on the reputation of Scary Movie. However I was horribly wrong. If you look at the demographic for this movie, its clear the younger you are the more you like the movie. Specifically 13 years old males, probably due to the amount of typical stupid American Pie-esque full frontal nudity in the movie. This movie is not worth seeing, not even on video. I was worse that I know what you did last Friday the 13th. For those not familar, that movie is a rip off of Scary Movie starring Save by the Bell's Tiffany Amber Thiesson.... and Coolio. Eww.  I give it a 2/10. "}{"Title":"A step back on the evolutionary ladder","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love movies - not in a sick, fetish, kind of way, but as a temporary form of escapism.  Consequently, the opportunity to attend a sneak preview always felt like a treat.  However after having my life force drained by such bombs as Tomcats, Freddie Got Fingered and The One, I've become a tad apprehensive. Can you blame me?The plot for  Not Another Teen Movie is lifted directly out of  She's All That  - the cool guy takes a bet that he can to turn the nerdy girl into a goddess.  This time however, it's intended as a comedy that throws together every cliched character from the genre in a series of unrelated rambling sequences with references to teen movies from the past two decades.  From the Brat Pack films of the 80's to the indistinguishable teen romance flicks of the 90's to the virgins-dire-to-get-laid farces common to both decades, everyone is represented - whether or not they should be is an entirely different question.There is no continuity to speak of in this movie, and unless you've seen most of the films in question (which unfortunately I have), many of the in-jokes will be lost.   This is important when you consider that most of the 80's references will be lost on the target audience who wasn't even born when the films came out.While there are several amusing gags - I smiled at the American Beauty and Grease references - the bulk of the humor scrapes the bottom of the gross-out comedy parody, relying on waterfalls of feces, homophobia, incest jokes, racial slurs, debasing misanthropy, and enough pointless swearing to make a sailor blush.   I spent most of the film in awe of it's stupidity and supremely bad taste, and felt like I needed a shower afterwards.If you liked Scary Movie or anything by the Farrelly Brothers, you'll probably enjoy this.  Isn't that supposed to be one of the signs of the apocalypse? "},{"Title":"Definitely just plain sucks.","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm just viewing parts of this on TV and went to see how bad it would score on IMDb; to my amazement the score was at 5.3 with 19000+ votes. I find that kind of hard to believe. Then to my second amazement it's up with 206% (!) since last week.. Riight!So I went on to read the comments and just the way the last 20+ comments are worded, I would _swear_ this one is rigged.It has to be a rig, or else everyone went insane last week and/or taste is at an all time low! This movie is appalling! The attempts at jokes hurt physically! The acting is cliché at best and plain bad at worst.Come on! Who actually really likes this stuff? And don't start with the don't take it too seriously, it's not a movie that's meant to be intelligent thing (See various previous too-slick comments). Believe me, there has not been a second of me taking this monstrosity seriously.Trash! "},{"Title":"Not Another Teen Movie","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a good double meaning title, it can be phrased as oh no, not another teen movie, and no, this is not another teen movie, but both phrases don't come close to how awful this film is. Basically this film spoofs all the teen comedy and drama movies from the recent years, and some from the past, to create a story bringing them all together. So at John Hughes High School, popular jock Jake Wyler (Fantastic Four's Chris Evans) has a bet with cocky blonde Austin (Dumb and Dumberer When Harry Met Lloyd's Eric Christian Olsen) that he can transform ordinary Janey Briggs (Chyler Leigh) into a stunner worthy to be prom queen. Trying to stop him succeeding are the cruelest girl in school, his evil and incestuous sister Catherine (Mia Kirshner), and bitchy cheerleader Priscilla (My Name Is Earl's Jaime Pressly). Also in the story are the common stereotypical characters we see in teen movies, such as naked foreign exchange student Areola (Cabin Fever's Cerina Vincent), good looking weirdo Les (Riley Smith), the only (little seen) black guy Malik (Scream 3's Deon Richmond), desperate virgins Mitch (Cody McMains), Ox (Sam Huntington) and Bruce (Samm Levine), perfect girl Amanda Becker (Mean Girls' Lacey Chabert), Ricky (Eric Jungmann) who is obsessed with Janey but was never noticed, and very old undercover reporter Sadie Agatha Johnson (Beverly Polcyn). The films spoofed in the film are American Pie, Porky's, The Breakfast Club, American Beauty, Cruel Intentions, 10 Things I Hate About You, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Clueless, Risky Business, Road Trip, The Goonies, American Pie 2, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, Footloose, Sixteen Candles, Pretty in Pink, Grease, The Faculty, She's All That, Never Been Kissed, Bring It On, Almost Famous, Unbreakable; Dude, Where's My Car?, Save the Last Dance and Get Over It. Also starring Randy Quaid as Mr. Briggs, Mr. T as The Wise Janitor, The Breakfast Club's Molly Ringwald as Flight Attendant and Halloween Resurrection's Sean Patrick Thomas as Black Guy at Party. I will admit I did recognise the obvious spoofs to the films you would expect in a film like this, the only problem is they are not funny at all, it is full of stupid and vulgar material, picking on sex toys, albinos, conjoined twins and all sorts of horrible stuff, it is absolute trash that is not worth the bloody effort, an atrocious parody. Poor! "},{"Title":"Not ANOTHER teen movie!","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has to a strong contender for the title of Worst movie ever. Cheap laughs, vulgar and puerile, a clichéd, thin plot... another teen movie basically. We've had Naked Gun and Airplane - stupidly hilarious comedy films which crams fun gags and visual jokes into them which are very good spoof films, without being too crude and vulgar, but then we have the film industry, which work so hard to produce masterpieces such as The Shawshank Redemption, Requiem for a Dream, Lord of the Rings etc., getting clogged up with crap like the Scary Movie films, and this tripe. Mocking Cruel Intentions, Varsity Blues, Almost Famous, Pretty in Pink, She's all That, Bring it on and other teen flicks, this movie tries, but fails to cram successful gags into it. I seriously don't remember one point during the film where I laughed. They're all recycled gags here, using toilet humour (literally.) It's just another excuse for on screen nudity. The plot is that Jake, a popular teen, makes a bet with his mates that he can transform the Pretty ugly girl into the most beautiful girl in the school. Seroiusly, don't rent this if you are a true film-lover. It's not good, it's awful. "},{"Title":"Not Another Stupid American Movie","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All I am going to say it that there is an amazing dark comedy called 'Nothing But Trouble' created by Dan Aykroyd and it is in the bottom 100 movies of imdb.'Not Another Teen Movie' is an embarrassment to everyone on this planet. But stupidity flows in our times, so there is an audience that appreciates this kind of idiocy.The excellent 'Freddy Got Fingered' was crazy and shocking, but it was genuinely funny. No one seems to recognize that, as it is also in the bottom 100 movies.So the next time you are wondering what makes the studios pay the enormous budgets of movies like 'Not Another Teen Movie', realize that the answer is 'us'. "},{"Title":"rock bottom","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie after a friend recommended, as he said it was the funniest movie he'd ever seen. Well, I had my share of bad comedies, but unfortunately this one hits rock bottom. The truth is every single movie this one makes fun of is 10 times better than the movie itself. "},{"Title":"Terrible, scriptless film with a few grossout laughs","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had surprisingly high hopes for Not Another Teen Movie. The shorts were quite amusing, the premise (I thought) was interesting for a comedy, and above all, I absolutely detest teen movies as a rule, and hoped that this film might poke some clever yet idiotic fun at them, but it wasn't to be.This film has essentially nothing going for it except for a couple of scenes that are memorable but for all the wrong reasons. They really continue the tradition of grossout teen comedies in trying to outdo the last at making the audience cringe at every moment. Admittedly, I laughed occasionally, but for nearly all the film I was covering my face, not only so I would not have to look at the screen but also so no one could see me actually watching this drivel.When it comes down to it, it's really nothing more than a bunch of badly connected spoofs of various teen movies of the past five years, all poorly written and with the responsibility on the audience to laugh rather than giving them something to laugh at. Some of the spoofs are almost good (the ripoff of 10 Things I Hate About You on the sports field is perhaps the best in the film) but they're not funny. And unlike the surprisingly entertaining Scary Movie, this one doesn't manage to worm this satire into a plot, simply because it doesn't have one.While I was able to tolerate the first half hour of this rubbish, by the end it was absolutely nothing. Awfully written and with the most inane dialogue I have ever heard outside Scooby-Doo and with very much the same embarrassing effect. I really think film makers ought to treat their paying audience with respect by hiring a screenwriter, and the actors do as woeful performance as you're ever likely to see. 1/2 a star out of ***** "},{"Title":"Oh! My! GOD!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh my god how horrible bad this movie is! In addition to being horrible bad, it is also horribly boring! Not even mildly amusing - I did not even *smile*! Poor, poor movie!And mind you; i DO like comedies, and i DO like an parody on these kind of movies. TO point out where it fails; it's too close to an *real* teenage movie.The cameo's of Molly Ringwall is a bit fun, though.  "},{"Title":"That's about 80 minutes I'll never get back...","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is some of the worst crap I've ever seen. I can't believe I actually saw it the whole way trough. Says a lot about me I guess... Anyway, don't ever, ever, ever see this movie. In a long row of movies that are nothing but comedies based on other comedies, this is probably the worst of the lot... I hope... In case you didn't get the point yet; Don't bother seeing this movie.  "},{"Title":"not another glorified movie about american teen stupidity","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is set up as though you and other people were watching the original movies and pointing out the dumb or funny things that go on. The stereotypes, the repition, whatever. Sadly, a spoof on these movies could have worked, but not in this mess of things thrown together to be funny. Airpalne, Spaceballs, Loaded Weapon 1; these were terrific spoofs for one very big reason they actually had a story to go with all the little pop-up jokes. Not Another Teen Movie is just pure crap.  "}{"Title":"The DUMBEST Movie Ever","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is probably the worst movie I've ever seen...along with Scary Movie 2. These types of films aren't even good enough to consider a movie or film. Honestly, it's just garbage that feeds on the young, ignorant, and horny teens of America who can't get enough of stupid movies. "},{"Title":"Impossibly stupid","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brain-dead parody of John Hughes' 1980s teen movies.  Mean-spirited, full of lame jokes and misogynist (look it up, kids)dialogue. Can't call it a waste of talent, because there's nobody init who has any. Saw this pile of puke on cable; thank God I didn'twaste 8 bucks on it. "},{"Title":"A total waste of 82 minutes of my life","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  See one-line summary...Since this is forcing me to write 4 lines, I'll go ahead with the bashing. The obscenity made me sick to my stomach and it was all unnecessary. This movie still had a bunch of teen-movie cliches so the satire wasn't all that effective. This movie was the worst I've ever seen. Ever. "},{"Title":"not another dumb movie...","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I honestly thought this movie would be funny... too bad they showed all the funny parts in the trailers so it was nothing new by the time i saw it in it's full length. I grew up during the 80's so hearing the same songs and seeing different parts of my fave movies was nice but i really didn't find the movie funny. and what was with the naked girl?? was that to get all the teenage boys (if they actually got in the movie theater to see this movie) worked up cus i must say it did nothing for me, i thought it was pretty degrading but then i am a woman and am not a big fan of looking at naked chicks(the one thing about 80's teen movies that i liked was there really wasn't much nudity but then i guess with better scripts u don't need a naked chick in different scenes to keep people watching... huh?). the one part of the movie i truely loved was THE END... (well for one it was over and for two molly ringwald's cameo was awesome) it was really nice seeing some of the faces i grew to know as a teenager in this movie (since there were some actors cast that were in 80's teen movies included in this film) but other than that it was truely a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Junk","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Completely without value, Not Another Teen Movie attempts to lampoon a dozen teen-themed movies and fails miserably.  When you get more gross-out and sexual-innuendo jokes than anything, you can tell that the moviemakers are just too infantile to make a smart, clever movie.  Its not the actors fault that the movie is so horrible, its what they were asked to do in the name of cinema.  Molly Ringwald was last spotted running from the set, laughing and clutching her paycheck. I honestly laughed ONCE.  1/10.     "},{"Title":"Horrible piece of useless crap!","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being a fan of the 80s teen movies, (ie/ Pretty In Pink, Breakfast Club, etc...) I decided to watch this to see just how they could spoof a line of great movies. Well, they did it in the worst way possible. There is not one single piece of originality what-so-ever in this entire 90 minutes of junk. The only thing that these no-name writers, the director, and the worthless actors did was rehash crap already seen in countless toilet humor movies, (ie/ Scary Movie, Any Tom Green Movie, American Pie, etc...) I have no idea why producers waste their time working on this kind of garbage. I mean, why do they actually think that a bunch of bad acting and sick disgusting humor will be the stuff audiences will like. Well, I'm one of the people who hate it all the way. It was a waste of time to watch, and is no worth renting or buying at all!!!!!!!!!!!!Score 1/10 (would have rather given it a '0', but the IMDB had no '0' rating, so '1' is what I give it.) "},{"Title":"On the contrary just another meaningless teen movie","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not another teen movie is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. If you think that this is the BEST MOVIE EVER', well I'm sorry but I think that you don't know how a good movie -or just a movie -is supposed to be...If you're going to say I didn't like the movie because I'm too old to get it or I didn't get the references to other teen movies because I didn't watch them; I'm a teenager and I know those scenes. If I ask you supporters of the movie Why does this movie is the BEST? I don't think I'll get a satisfying answer . If you say jokes ;I've seen all of them before (didn't like back then either but that's another story) ,so why should I watch this movie or what makes this film that unique?(Actually I did watch it for a friends' sake and stayed till the end because i liked Chyler Leigh.) I must accept that, I liked a few jokes like You'd never suspect everyone ýn the school is a professional dancer; but that's all .My point is a 5 min parody can be made for TV with this material but that's it .There are so many scenes in the movie that whose sole purpose is to spend some time to expand the movie to at least 90 mins to make it feel like a movie! This is the way I think but I must accept that movie business is one of the most profitable businesses in the world and as anyone can in these boards for the  movie; they've succeeded .It won't be a surprise for me if I learn that a sequel is being made .I don't have a problem with people who have different tastes than I have but I'm writing this because I'm afraid there won't be any good movies for our taste ten years later...  "},{"Title":"I HATE THIS MOVIE","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the movies title speaks true not another bad teen movie in which its hard attemps to make you laugh make you feel more like pukeing it makes fun of all the right things but in all the wrong way it barley pervides a few mere glipes of smile when in all purpose its supossed to pervide crack ups but it compleatly fails this movie is worse the every movie it makes fun of! "},{"Title":"Am I supposed to find this funny!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      Let me tell you people something.  MTV has ruined the movie industry for every one.  There used to be a time we could respectfully go see a spoof flik and laugh our butts off.  Not any more!  I remember loving movies by Mel Brooks, and other great spoofs like Airplane.  Now they shove this disgusting trash down our throats and expect us to swallow it.  This movie was horrible.  Every second of it was sick and completely over the top with toilet humor that couldn't have made me laugh even if the writers of South Park wrote it.  And the director knew it wasn't funny.  Other wise he wouldn't have edited in all those shouts in the background in a last ditch effort to redeem a hopeless movie.       Usually, I love stupid movies to laugh at and enjoy in there campiness, but this movie is just stupid and degrading to humanity. "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was really dumb.  I didn't even watch but the first 10 minutes of it.  The humor was in bad taste, too.  If you're a pervert, you'd like this movie.  This isn't a movie you would want to watch with Grandma. "}{"Title":"Not another piece of excrement","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ooh yeah, it's another low-brow-teen-potty-humor-sex-farce-retarded-drivel movie with all the bad taste and offensiveness of a three-day-old road-kill squirrel and none of the intelligence.  And guess what?  It was directed by another MTV-micro-attention-span-vidiot-producer/director-turned-big-screen-vidiot-director.  And it stars?   A cluster of vacuous TV and B-movie bimbos whose actual talent fades into insignificance when measured against their ability to lead 14-year-old rednecks around by their gonads.  And the plot?  Can you stand the suspense?  Strung together sequences which parody other lame parodies of lame parodies.  The fact that this toxic turkey was released is a testament to Hollywood's transcedental contempt for its audience (those not stricken with Down's Syndrome, that is).  However, the one very funny aspect to this movie is the fact that it grossed more than double it's shamefully bloated budget of 16 million.  So the joke is on anyone who actually paid to see this cinematic equivalent of a playground booger eating contest (those not stricken with Down's Syndrome, that is).  Now THAT'S funny. "},{"Title":"Just Another Teen Movie","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is maybe the worst I've ever seen in a cinema. Mel Brooks once said that if you want to parody a movie, this movie must be able to reach a certain level of quality. Otherwise it's too easy to do the parody and a bad movie is of course always a parody on itself.This is the situation we have here. 'American Pie', 'She's All That' and so on are so bad that you don't need a parody to see why they are bad.The next problem with 'Not Another Teen Movie' is that this movie is not a real parody, because it uses the same stereotypes than other teen-movies and that's of course not the way to parody a genre.Also the movie steals just like 'Scary Movie' elements of productions by the Zucker Brothers and Jim Abrahams. OK, 20 years ago their movies were new, but today this kind of silly humor is just old-fashioned. For Example nobody needs the unbearable new movies of Leslie Nielson.But the worst thing about this movie is that it also grabs real movies and take them down into the filth. For example 'American Beauty' and 'The Breakfast Club' are made fun of on a quality-level that's ridiculous.Well I think that's all the main bad things about this movie.What really makes me angry is the guy, who sit next to me in the cinema. He laughed at every stupid joke and always said things like 'Oh, man that's not possible!'. Those guys are responsible for the disappearance of really good movies that are also successful.Ah, by the way count how many people are hit by bikes, cars or buses. I think the number is a new world record. "},{"Title":"Let me get some more popcorn........","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is exactly not another teen movie, in fact it's worse.  When you take all the worse teen movies, cut some scences from them, your going to get the horriblest teen movie possible.  And this movie is that.  There was a bunch of characters, all with pointless roles.  This movie is just terrible, I believe the worst of it's year.  It was a bunch of cluttered stupidity.  I was embassased just to be in the movie theater, I can't imagine how all of the actors felt.  It's bad when you'd rather keep going to the food court and buy over priced snack foods just to avoid watching the movie.   "},{"Title":"Craptacular!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was possibly the worst movie I have ever seen.  It made 3 Ninjas kick back look like Citizen Kane 2 Kane goes to Africa. I mean come on why do movies like this get made?  I feel dumber just for watching it. The only redeeming thing about it was counting how many times the boom mike entered the shot. "},{"Title":"More hits than misses","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Parody of teen movies in the spirit of Scary Movie. There is a bit of a plot modeled on She's All That. Hottie Jake Wyler (Chris Evans) bets that he can transform an ugly girl into a beautiful one by the prom. The plot is secondary--there are constant sidetracks to parodies of tons of other films--everything from American Beauty to Risky Business. Some of the jokes don't work, but they're coming so fast and furious that if it doesn't work, just wait a second...another one's coming. More of the jokes work than don't. No classic, but I enjoyed it. The acting isn't bad--Chris Evans is too old for his role (but then the entire cast is) but he has nice comic timing--and a very nice body too. Mia Kirshner is also funny playing his sister and aping Sarah Michelle Gellar from Cruel Intentions. Also Jaime Pressly is fun as a beyond belief b**** of a cheerleader. All the stereotypes are hit dead on and it even turns into a musical at one point! High points are the parody of The Breakfast Club (with Paul Gleason cheerfully recreating his role) and a hilarious cameo by Molly Ringwald. Lots of fun. "},{"Title":"Horrible waste of time","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was horrible.  The commercial made it seem alright, but the actual movie was a piece of crap.  Way too many lame jokes that don't make it any funnier.  Even a couple of key cameos and a decently acted reenactment from The Breakfast Club can't save this movie.  Save your money, save your time. "},{"Title":"Not another good movie","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow ... I was wondering if the toilet humor, slapstick comedy and gags where people fart and tell each other to go to (4 letter word) in the (3 letter word) are any popular besides United States and I have been proved right - no, they aren't.This awful presence on screen have been total disaster here in Bulgaria and received mainly negative references.I have one question to ask you Americans - is living in stupidity, illiteracy and at first signalling system any good? I suspect that it's the very true, giving in mind how much positive reviews from Americans I see here.This is stupid and boring movie. Avoid at all costs.And please PLEASE, IMDb gurus, give the opportunity of sending - values when voting. This deserves -10 for sure. "},{"Title":"wish i had cut my eyes out","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i could go on and on about how awful and stupid and completely sick this movie is but i can only write 1,000 words. i gave this movie a 1 out of 10 vote i wish they would let me give it a zero. it deserves much worse than a 1. "},{"Title":"Could be worse............","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to this at a screening my college had a week to it's actual release. I went in thinking it would have sucked, and I walked out thinking that it did not suck as much as I thought.They go overboard on the sight gags and rather than funny they come off as immature(even for my tastes!) and not funny. If you want to see FUNNY gross out humor go rent Porky's, or a Troma movie. If you want to see a parody movie that tries to share the spotlight with Scary Movie but fails dramatically, watch this movie.But it also had it's good parts as well. I mean I hate alot of these teen movies where everyone is rich and good looking and the actors playing the teens are like 28 and the plot is guy and girl meet, guy and girl fall in love, guy does something and girl hates him, then guy and girl kiss and make up at the end. And alot of the jokes in this movie poke fun at that overdone plot concept.If you have nothing better to do with that 7-8 bucks in your pocket and want to see a movie, well go to your theater and head for where Another Teen Movie is playing........then think and MAKE SURE there is nothing better worth watching before you go in. "},{"Title":"Awful, In Every Aspect.","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off before I am viewed as a hater of this genre of films I must say that I highly enjoyed Scary Movie, American Pie, Ect. Unfortunately this film should not even be viewed as a spoof. Over 80% of the film was nothing more than word for word scenes from other movies, being done over by other actors. I found myself ending the sentences of the actors before they were finished. After about 45 mins of trying to endure this film the 3 other people I went with all decided that it would be more humane to leave the theater ,taking the $9 loss, than to have to endure any more of the film. We were not the only people leaving. I would say this movie deserves a 0 out of ****. It was actually a shame to see the wasted use of a few good actors. "}{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies Ever...Hands Down","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off, let me say, I wasn't expecting an excellent movie.  I knew this wasnt oscar-calibur.  I expected something along the lines of Scary Movie. But dear god, what were they thinking?!  This movie was so incredibly not-funny.  During the movie, there was maybe one person in the theater who was laughing.  There were more screams of This movie sucks than there were laughs.  I warn everyone out there, do not see this movie.  It is just flat out not funny.  The only upside is that there is a very large amount of hot chicks.  But go see Ocean's 11, or anything but this.  I can't believe we didn't see Vanilla Sky.  Not another teen movie = awful.  0 / any number possible. "},{"Title":"Not All That","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Interrupted masturbating, sexy Chyler Leigh (as Janey Briggs) goes to school unsatisfied. Although she is very beautiful, Ms. Leigh is considered ugly due to wearing glasses and a ponytail. At school, she is asked to the prom by handsome jock Chris Evans (as Jake Wyler). He doesn't recognize her prettiness, and is just responding to a pal's bet. But, they just might hook up, for real. Many students at John Hughes High School are apparently in High School until the age of twenty-three, which is California state law for retention. Perhaps this is why the film is called Not Another Teen Movie. Filled with raunchy humor, this film will be more fun if you're not allowed, but can get your sticky hands on the Unrated Extended Director's Cut version. Otherwise, it's a flat spoof with some likable performers.**** Not Another Teen Movie (12/7/01) Joel Gallen ~ Chyler Leigh, Chris Evans, Cody McMains, Eric Jungmann "},{"Title":"Went sharply downhill after the 1st half hour","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, The opening scene is hilarious but what can I say it just goes to hell like. It doesn't even have its own storyline, it just badly rips off other movies. And not in a funny way, it just quotes off other movies, word for word, line by line. I actually had to check to make sure it wasn't a Lionsgate Production.It ripped off American Pie in the most ridiculous of ways and is not worthy to try and make jokes about classic teen movies THAT ARE ACTUALLY FUNNY. I know that I may be biased as I am a big fan of American Pie, but I am a firm believer that a writer should write his own movie rather than stealing parts of other peoples (this might be okay if you took like 5 lines) because I see this as a greedy half hearted attempt to make more money.And Melissa Joan Hart, why they put her character or her in the movie beats me. I just don't get why anyone would have said This script looks good, let's make this movie You don't wanna see this movie trust me. "},{"Title":"Not another teen movie?? actually, this is just another piece of trash!","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First of all, make no mistake about it, this was just another teen movie and nothing more. Crude humor, guys fantasizing about some girl a love story and a cliché ending...The story is about a guy who gets into a challenge with the other guys to turn an ordinary girl into a Prom Queen.. Subsequently, he falls in love, they suddenly have a conflict and finally they all make up.I felt like my brain was getting cooked while I watched this movie. I seriously DO NOT Recommend this movie because there are so many better movies out there and I think a 1 on 10 sums it up quite precisely.In summary, please do not waste your time watching this movie! "},{"Title":"Perhaps the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie last night and let's just put it this way. Freddy Got Fingered was 10 times better than this. I feel bad that the actors in this movie chose to be in a movie that is so stupid. I usually love movies like this like Scary Movie or other parodies like that but this was a complete waste of 90 minutes not to mention $4.00 to rent. The only thing I was happy about was that I didn't shell out $8 or $9 to see it in a theater. DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME! "},{"Title":"yep,another gross out wannabe","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The jokes in this film are so forced its sad, the movies they try to spoof are such classics that its just not really funny...maybe they get a chuckle out of most, but no belly laughs...and the nudity is the only thing keeping guys in the theatre.....this film would have been funny if it had come out back in 1987..but,I dont think even then they would have made people laugh with this trash.. most of the films they spoof, breakfast club,16 candles,ferris bueller etcc, arent easy to spoof.....and arent done well here either..in short this movie sucks! and it sucks hard!!! watching this film is about as much fun as watching paint dry, and its as painful to watch as passing a kidney stone.....pass on this turd..Airplane,or even Scary Movie this isnt.. "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie was the worst movie I've seen of 2001. The humor of the whole movie was too immature... and people these days don't know how to make spoof movies anymore... The Zucker Brothers were probably the only people who made good spoofs. They shouldn't have made this movie. But if you want to waste your time in a movie theater then this is for you... If you wanna see something good like Black Hawk Down. Not another Teen Movie is not for you. "},{"Title":"It almost made me cry.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be the worst movie ever. I thought I`d seen some bad ones, but this one takes the cake. How on earth can you make a movie like this?!? It`s not even slightly funny. When you walk out from the cinema, you can`t help but feeling sorry for the persons involved. Being part of this sad movie will be as good for them as Show Girls was for Elizabeth Berkley. If you ever consider seeing it, I suggest you go see American Pie instead.  "},{"Title":"Worst parody ever!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was definitely one of the worst movies ever, let alone one of the worst parodies.  The jokes weren't clever and it seemed as though it tried too hard to be funny.  They made gross comments that had nothing to do with teen movies, but that they thought would be funny.  However, they were just plain stupid.  Even nudity and Jamie Pressly couldn't make this movie even half decent.  Trust me, seeing this movie is a big waste of time. "},{"Title":"ick!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That's about all that can be said about this god-awful movie. There's nothing unique about it at all - just bit after bit rehashed from other teen movies, and they aren't even done humorously. It'd be nice to say the best part about seeing the movie was getting into the theater for free. Unfortunately, not paying for the movie still couldn't justify the time wasted watching it. "}{"Title":"CRAP !!","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Something's seriously wrong with American Teenagers.This is just too stupid to be funny.... plus it's gross. I don't understand the point in makin' such baseless Comedies. Kids need to get out of this retarded stuff. "},{"Title":"Worst film of 2001","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well it took a long time to find, but Not Another Teen Movie is my choice as the worst film of the year. Not once did the film offer a single laugh. I counted one chuckle and a forced giggle. How could they go wrong? There is plenty of ammunition to spoof. Instead of spoofing, the filmmakers simply re-tread on ideas and scenes from other films. Even the spoof of Breakfast Club is almost an identical recreation until the tail end of the scene.Sadly the filmmakers decided to go for the vulgar gross out which they achieved many more times then I care to count. What they forgot to do was make it funny. Oh!! I completely forgot!! I DID laugh hard once. It was during the ending credits when it was revealed that it took 5 writers to come up with this garbage. Now THAT is funny. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've seen in a long while... in so many ways","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Poor acting.  Filled with gross, vulgar, stupid and very at all funny jokes.  An few examples of the humor of this movie gorgeous girl complains that all the guys take a dump on her chest after anal sex, one day she wants to be the one to do it.  Girl keeps trying to have sex with her brother.  Dad invites son to have sex with his mom to get over lost girlfriend.I don't know what makes me more depressed about this movie 1) I wasted money to see it 2) I wasted time to see it 3) This is the kind of humor the studios think people enjoy 4) That there were a couple of people in the theater that seemed to enjoy itAvoid this movie at all costs... unless you are over 30 years old, still living at your parents house, cleaning toilets for a living, and didn't finish 6th grade... in that case this movie would be about your speed.I gave this movie a 1. "},{"Title":"This movie...is worse than Cats","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is horrible.  I knew from the first ten seconds of the movie when the character that was supposed to be Lanie in She's All That pulled out a vibrator in bed that this movie was NOT worth see OR paying $4 for.  After enduring the whole thing, I concur that I was absolutely correct. "},{"Title":"there's sophomoric humor, there's brain-dead humor...and then there's this","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When 5 writers get credit for one awful teen movie parody, you're in trouble. When the Director of said movie also did not one, but two Ellen DeGeneres specials you're in real big trouble. By the way,why parody teen movies when most of them seem to be parodies themselves? Not Another Teen Movie (or NATM for morons who can't spell or just love acronyms) is one of the most brain-dead comedies I have ever had to misfortune of watching. And Freddy got Fingered came out the same year. 2001 had way too much tragedy and we went to the movies to help us forget our woes and THEY give us this horse manure. I openly weep. Why Mr. T had ANYthing to do with this I have not a clue. There's more movie after the credits, but if you can make it that far, you're a better man than I.My GradeD- DVD Extras Commentary by Joel Gallen and Mike Bender; Second commentary by Chyler Leigh, Jaime Pressly, Eric Olsen, and Eric Jungmann; pop-up factoids; Teen movie IQ test; 18 deleted/extended scenes (with more topless Areola); 3 production featurettes; 'Car Ride' short film; the unrated 'Tainted Lovie' music video by Manson; Audition reels; stills gallery; TV Spots; Promo spots; Theatrical Trailer; Trailers for The New Guy, The Animal, Saving Silverman, Big Daddy, and Loser; and 2 Easter Eggs (a marriage proposal and a few takes on the kissing scene) Eye Candy Cerina Vincent as Areola is nude whenever sees on screen, and a few breast and butt shots from various extras "},{"Title":"Bad comedies","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film could very well be the worst film i've ever seen. I didn't laugh a single time watching it. The best part of the film is when a Cure song is played, introducing one of the characters. This is quite early in the film, but you should not, for your own sake, see any more of it. Stupid and mean jokes and a terrible story.The Waterboy, Freddy got Fingered and this film are clearly the worst three films I have seen. While really bad action/drama often turn out to be quite amusing, bad comedies are just bad.Instead of seeing this film, see Dr. Strangelove or a Monthy Pyton film for the eleventh time.Rating 1/10 (because one cannot give it less)  "},{"Title":"Basic juvenile humor, sometimes funny, sometimes just too stupid","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"18 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Another Teen Movie is a, uh, it might just be another teen movie, except this one is directed by Joel Gallen, one of the guys at MTV, so it is a teen movie except with that MTV humor edge to it (plus R rating).  It spoofs movie that in their own way are already funny on their own, so parodying them is not only difficult but lame.  That's why a good chunk of this movie doesn't work.  However, when Not Another Teen Movie does work its laughs, it is actually funny (the Randy Quaid scenes, Breakfast Club spoof, certain parts of the party sequence are the funniest parts.  Overall, it's OK, but it would've been funnier if it was made 5 years ago, or if I was 5 years younger.  Mr.T, Melissa Joan Hart, Molly Ringwald and Paul Gleason appear in cameos (Mr. T would've been funnier if he had better dialogue).  B  "},{"Title":"Yeah exactly. Not another one.","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not Another Teen Movie tricks you into thinking you're going to get a movie that makes fun of those idiotic teen movies because of it's title and because it's a spoof of them, but all it is is another teen movie, just like it calls itself, but at least it has the sense to make fun of itself. It's a spoof film about movies that desperately need to be spoofed, which should have led to a much better movie. That's why the first Austin Powers was so good (the other two sucked, as you all know), because the James Bond films so badly needed to be spoofed. Unfortunately, there was not enough emphasis on making fun of teen movies as there was on making another one. Yes, the movie makes fun of all the standard teen movie clichés, but only enough to give it an excuse for having them all. Just like in Jeepers Creepers where the sister tells her brother as he crawls down the mysterious hole on the freaky guy's property, This is the part of horror movies where someone does something incredibly stupid and the whole audience hates him for it! Needless to say, he crawls in anyway, and presumably the scriptwriters sit back and grin contentedly, another day's work done. Sadly, as is the case in Not Another Teen Movie, the direct admission of stupidity is neither an excuse nor the justification for it. That being said, the movie is at least entertaining in the way that all spoofs, even the really bad ones, are, you get a test of your movie knowledge by how many of the movies being spoofed you can name along the way. I have no interest in listing them, as I am sure you have no interest in reading a list of the movies I recognized. Most of them are stupid movies anyway. I have to say I enjoyed the scene at the end where Molly Ringwald showed up, for the same reason I liked the scene at Preston's party where the black guy from Save the Last Dance appeared. As Stephen King pointed out in Bag of Bones, people love seeing characters that they recognize from other stories make appearances in new ones. It's almost like seeing family again. Stephen King does this more than any other author I've ever read, and if you're going to make a movie making fun of a whole genre, it's certainly a good idea to get a couple of the major stars from that genre to come in and make fun of themselves. But sadly, other than that the movie is an almost complete waste. Even Jamie Pressly, who is hardly known for her respectable and powerful performances, is completely wasted here, forced to do such ridiculous scenes (ridiculous even for a teen movie spoof) like the cheer recruiting scene in which she talks about how she's the cheer captain and so she makes all the cheer-cisions and how she's all cheer-cited about getting a new cheergirl since they're one short and are in something of a cheer-mergency. It is certainly telling about the rest of the movie that this is meant to be funny. But like the rest of the movie, Not Another Teen Movie is an exercise in making fun of teen movies in ways that are generally so bad or so tasteless or simply so unamusing that they make you feel more uncomfortable than anything else. Oh, and how's this for a telling little factoid, the funniest scenes in the whole movie are the ones in which the main character cries. Go figure. "},{"Title":"Not Another Turkey!","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Turkey is good at Thanksgiving, but in the world of cinema the dreaded bird is the lowest of the low. Not Another Teen Movie is as low as a movie can possibly get. It is a jumbled mesh of nothingness, an abyss of a genre that I have always hated and despised. The plot? Well there is no real plot here as every film of recent memory within the teen genre is given air-time with would-be hilarious results. There is nothing to recommend here at all. Not Another Teen Movie is a stupid film that very, and I do mean very, few will get anything out of. Those who know nothing about the cinema should gobble this mess up. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).  "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Not Just Another Teen Movie is another in a string of slampoons which takes on the teen romantic comedy genre with a kaleidoscope of characters, situations, and scenes borrowed from a host of past teen flicks. A raunchy, vulgar, irreverent morass of exaggerations which tries to maintain story continuity, this flick has its moments but burns out prematurely lacking the creative fuel to keep the laughs coming. An okay watch for those into grosser than gross humor but a turn-off for all others.  "}{"Title":"THESE KIDS TODAY","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE (2001) * Chyler Leigh, Chris Evans, Jaime Pressly, Eric Christian Olsen, Mia Kirshner, Deon Richmond,  Eric Jungmann, Ron Lester, Cody McMains,  Cerina Vincent, Randy Quaid, Sam Huntington, Lacey Chabert, Joanna Garcia,  Samm Levine, Beverly Polcyn, Riley Smith, , Mr. T, Molly Ringwald.  (Dir Joel Gallen)	It all started with ZAZ.  Zucker Abrams Zucker, the three-headed creative team of satirists, who lampooned the disaster flick with their benchmark comedy Airplane! in 1980 which opened the flood gates on parody comedies including the Brothers Farrelly and Wayans with their politically incorrect japes and outrageous tasteless sight gags and double entendres galore. 	Sad to say the parodic genre seems to be on the wane in this insipid and inane take-off of the teen flicks since the good ol' days of John Hughes' skewed yet finger-on-the-pulse of the American teenager to the bane of our existence Freddie Prinze Jr. oeuvre. 	Let's just say this offering is like trying to read a Xerox of a fax of a carbon copy damn near impossible to see any of the original (or in this case originality).   	One could argue the teen films of the past five years have been an unintentional parody of teenagers and I might sound like my old man but the kids today &#150; Jesus! &#150; they haven't a clue. 	The &#145;comedy' is set in John Hughes High (get it!  Such subtle nuance!) and features a cast of basic unknowns as the cookie-cutter cardboard genre types including geeky artist Janey Briggs (The Pretty Ugly Girl) (Leigh) who is unwittingly the sexual pawn between jocks Jake Wyler (Evans) (The Popular Jock) and Austin (Olsen) The Cocky Blonde Guy lifted from  She's All That and Ten Things I Hate About You .   The rest is not worth getting into except everyone is a stereotype of a stereotype and there is crude jokes aplenty including arguably the most pointless toilet humor in years of trying to make the point how funny it is.  It's equally embarrassing of its aping The Breakfast Club by even having Gleason reprising his Vice Principal Vernon character in a limp exchange of his confrontation with Judd Nelson from that film. 	I did laugh (only once mind you) at Ringwald's gutsy knowing wink cameo to basically scream at the idiots involved (and metaphorically at the team of &#145;writers' and novice director Gallen whose claim to fame is working on the MTV Movie Awards film parodies; stick to your day job pal).	 You've been warned.  "},{"Title":"Horrible, waste of time!","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've watched this film on TV because one of my pals told me about it. I remember this a while ago but never got the chance to see. So I decided to watch it...and it was a huge waste of time. Not another teen movie is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. If you think that this is the BEST MOVIE EVER', well I'm sorry but I think that you don't know how a good movie -or just a movie -is supposed to be I've heard so many people, preferably younger teens say this movie was hilarious, outrageous, and the best movie ever If I ask you supporters of the movie Why does this movie is the BEST? I don't think I'll get a satisfying answer . If you say jokes ;I've seen all of them before (didn't like back then either but that's another story) ,so why should I watch this movie or what makes this film that unique? The spoofs in this movie are just annoying and horrible. Also so many things are quite disgusting, disturbing and just plain unfunny.Some gross and disturbing scenes, were how the sister cheer-leading was trying to attract her own brother. That was plain wrong. There are so many scenes in the movie that whose sole purpose is to spend some time to expand the movie to at least 90 stupid. Its just about a bet that the main character (Chris Evans) does which is take a girl into his school and turn her into prom queen. Everything from there goes wrong. After a while the movie just felt like a script as if they were just free-styling. Honestly those movie is horrible and one of the worst films I have ever seen. Stay away from this piece of crap "}]