[{"Title":"I thought it was funny","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"37 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Before the film came out, I read some reviews saying that they felt Woody was back in top form, but now I'm reading reviews that say otherwise.  I guess many people feel that in the case of a greatly talented filmmaker like Woody, after wooing audiences with his earlier works like Annie Hall and Manhattan, there's nowhere left to go but down.  So whenever people bash his films, they don't bash them in the same way they would the next SNL-inspired dud.  They bash them even more brutally simply because he's Woody and they can't help but expect more from him.  Hollywood Ending is no gem, with moments that obviously drag, but I felt it worked.  It's an excellent premise for a farcical comedy, and it played out fluently.  My only criticism about the blind element of the film dealt with Woody's performance.  Each scene where he talks to someone, he purposely turns away from that person.  He was obviously trying way too hard to stress the fact that his character's blind (I guess in case the audience somehow forgot halfway through).  People who are blind actually have a strong sense of hearing.  Like the comic book character of Daredevil, their other four senses are heightened.  When they're first faced with the blindness, it's hard to cope, but after a short while they get used to it. Like most of Woody's films, the cast is an ensemble of multi-talented actors who each contribute more than their own five cents into the work.  There was even an funny unbilled cameo by Isaac Mizrahi.  A lot of people project snobbery upon Woody's recent work, but I happened to enjoy this movie very much, and the same goes with Small-Time Crooks and Curse of the Jade Scorpion.  As long as you don't proceed with gigantic expectations, you should have a lot of fun.My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"A conformist movie about non-conformism (WATCH IT AGAIN!)","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"49 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really don't understand why your users rated this movie as a mediocre one (when I write this, it has 6.3 points). This is a superb irony on the irrational fashion that runs through the Western Elite (European and American). It's a game between rational and irrational, under the pretext of a blind director who initially wants to make a nonconformist movie and he ends by making it per accidens. Thanks God the French exist! says Woody Allen at a certain moment. Well, we should really thank God for that. The French have style. The French have art (or used to have). What came under my eyes very rapidly was that, although Woody Allen movie is surprisingly commercial, very easy to understand from a superficial perspective, it is a movie about postmodernism, about how art is made. Tristan Tzara, my compatriot and the initiator of the Suprarealist movement called DADAISM would have been very enthusiastic over the movie in the movie (which, a propos, is never shown to us!!!). You should watch this movie with your eyes and ears and with your mind open, because you'll see something else. "},{"Title":"Good Woody","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This one, unlike many of Woody's pieces over the past decade or so, is neither a failed comedy nor a dullish drama. It's pretty funny all the way through and lacks any pretense of being otherwise. I won't go into the story except to repeat that Woody is a film director here, given a last chance, trying to direct a remake of a 1940s film. He suddenly suffers from hysterical blindness and must make the movie without seeing any of the performances, the rushes, the production design, the promotional material, or anything else. His agent is the only one in on the secret. They enlist the help of a Chinese translator to act as Woody's guide around the set and the rest of the world, but the translator is fired by the Chinese cameraman. So the agent must spill the beans to Woody's separated wife who then acts as her husband's eyes. It all ends happily. This is a consistently amusing movie. There is even the occasional pratfall that hasn't been seen in a Woody movie for a long time. There are, to be sure, serious undertones that surface from time to time, but they lie lightly on the narrative line. One of these is the still-fuzzy relationship between Woody and his separated wife, Tia Leoni, who is engaged now to Treat Williams, grown bulky and authoritative. The other theme deals with Woody's relationship with his son, Tony. Tony has joined a rock band, if that's the term. His hair is a sickly dark green piled up in an improbable sculpture atop his head, like a Yurok Indian's. He eat rats on stage and has changed his name from Tony Waxman to ScumbagX. Tony once threw his father down a flight of stairs. But, That was then, says Tony, easily forgiving himself, and it was stupid. Tony doesn't have the funniest lines in the movie but in one way he gives the most interesting performance in the movie, because he's just about the only actor (not including the two Chinese) who doesn't speak the way Woody does. The nervous mannerisms we've come to recognize are all here in everyone else, and they're funny too, because they fit the characters so well. (They were appropriate to his character in Broadway Danny Rose, too. And as they weren't when Branaugh used them in Celebrity.) Here, just about everybody's got them. Hardly a sentence is completed with someone else interrupting or the sentence itself wandering off into space, lost, having forgotten its own beginning. I didn't bother to do a content analysis of the dialog but if y'know? isn't the most common utterance I'd be kind of surprised. Stuttering is endemic to the cast. People ask, Whaddaya mean? And somebody replies, Whaddaya mean, whaddo I mean? Hands flutter as if with lives of their own. The blind Woody praises a promotional poster for the film while admiring its blank back. He himself is older here, noticeably, but not depressingly. His hair is now gray and his bald patch more pronounced. But he's in good shape and his wit is keen. He plays the blind man in a hilariously exaggerated fashion -- never looking directly at the person he's conversing with, constantly holding his open palms up in front of his chest as if carrying an invisible pumpkin. A writer from Esquire tells him fawningly how much she's enjoyed his work while taking notes for a tell-all scandalous hatchet-job about everyone involved in the production, kind of like the number Lillian Ross did on Hemingway for the New Yorker profile or on Huston's Red Badge of Courage. Unluckily, she wears the same perfume as his wife and, thinking he's talking with Leoni, Allen tells her everything. And it isn't as if the whole film depends on the odd one-liner, although those one-liners are there too. (After regaining his sight, Woody views for the first time the footage he's shot, and he looks stricken. Call Doctor Kavorkian, he says slowly.) The premise is absurd, of course. No one could pass himself off as sighted under these conditions. But joke follows joke unerringly, sometimes building on one another. Before an important meeting with the film's producer, his wife takes him to the guy's apartment to familiarize him with the layout. This way, you see, he will know where the chair is located, the desk, and the other items of furniture. She tries to be as helpful as possible. While he's wringing his hands in the doorway, she paces off distances in the apartment, telling him, Okay, now you enter through the door and walk four steps. Then the chair is on your right. But, okay, if Hal is sitting there, you'll take two more steps. Now you turn to the left because that's where the sofa is, but watch out for the lamp. Woody anxiously repeats her instructions -- watch out for the lamp, and the sofa is, two more paces, no four -- okay -- and then turn left. The instructions become impossibly complicated and confusing and Woody is gripping his head trying to remember them, until everything begins to break down, including the editing, and we get sequences that might have come out of that movie in which Danny Kaye has to remember that the poison is in the pellet of the picture of the peacock and the flagon with the dragon has the brew that is true. Meanwhile Woody is stumbling around with those forearms stretched before him and a blank gaze, one of Baron von Frankenstein's rejects. During the actual interview he manages to sit on the lamp. You really ought to see this one if you are in the mood for laughs because it's a thoroughly successful comedy. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some of the one liners here are so hysterical, you will think about them long after the movie ends and still roar. This is a very funny movie and plays right into the audience expectation Allen is mocking in his script. After the war in Iraq, Woody's comment about Thank God the French exist is even more amusing than when he first wrote it. Yes Thank God for the French, they've made some funny movies too. And Thank God for people like Woody Allen. The world needs him. I love how his running trademark showing him with younger women still continues to upset certain members of both the public and critical elite. I think at his age, Allen can pretty much do and write what he wants. Personally, I enjoy the fantasy; it's a sly little dig against the morals of American culture, especially in the Ashcroft/Bush JR era.  Older men and younger women have been around forever, and Woody definitely isnt the only one experiencing this condition, so get over yourselves, uptighters, and learn to laugh at life. The dumbing down of society (referred to often in the screenplay) is highly evident after the negative reactions this has received. It's only a movie; it's not the end of the world. You either get it or you don't. "},{"Title":"Why do you have to see this movie?","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am overwhelmed with the modern movies' aspiration to rely on new fashions. Thank God we have Woody Allen as a beacon of tradition and craftsmanship in the domain of movie-making. The movie is extremely funny and lacks all the nuisances which plague newer ones in order to make them more appealing to the main core audience nowadays male teenagers. Woody Allen plays the role of an over-the-hill director which undertakes the mission of making a movie against the wishes of its producer.He receives a blow when he becomes blind right before the beginning of the shooting. The plot revolves around Allen's blindness, which is guarded as a secret by his agent, and the process of the filming with a blind director. I do not have to mention the many a hilarious moments this situation produces. "},{"Title":"Some of it is witty Allen stuff but the blindness joke is stretched and the narrative poor","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Following a string of flops and a difficult reputation, director Val Waxman is now paying the bills doing adverts or anything else he can get. When his ex-wife gets her project greenlit by producer boyfriend Hal Jaeger, she fights for Val to get the job. Despite the personal issues and conflicts Val knows it is his last chance to get his career back and takes the job. The personal problems are only the start of things going wrong whenever Val is suddenly struck down with psychosomatic blindness. Knowing that this would get him fired and ruined, Val and his agent try to conceal the fact and continue the film.With poor reviews and no good signs about it, it was no surprise that this film never came to any cinemas near me (was it even released in the UK?) and to be honest I wasn't that bothered that I missed it. A visit to Austria recently found it playing in cinema in Vienna and, although I didn't see it then, it put it in my mind to watch it at home and see if it was worth the ongoing cinema screenings that the Austrians were giving it. The start of the film suggests a fairly good film as it is full of the usual Allen wit even if it felt a bit like him on autopilot. However with the blindness section things seem to falter and fail a bit &#150; at first it is funny but quickly it gets tired and there is nothing injected into the film to shore it up. The reason for the blindness is suggested as interesting but it is barely done and not taken anywhere other than the most basic development in order to provide a conclusion. The idea is good and the real life parallels are interesting (Allen, handicapped by the American system but still appreciated in Europe even if he doesn't totally understand why) but these are not taken beyond the original concept and never brought out in the script. Instead we have plenty of OK jokes and quips but nothing that approaches an engaging narrative or a developed plot. It is still OK but it is unlikely that any audiences other than real Allen fans will get much fro it; as one I laughed and enjoyed it a bit but am not blind to the massive weaknesses.Allen does his usual stuff to good effect and if you like him you'll like him here. Leoni acts in his shadow and can't make the role her own &#150; she stays very much an Allen creation. Williams is enjoyable; Hamilton is fun and the support cast all do well enough with their various parts. None of them really shine but the script still shares the laughs around and nobody actually gave a bad performance as such &#150; just a shame that none of them have a character to speak of either.Overall this is an OK film but nothing more than that. Even fans of Woody Allen will be at a stretch to forgive a script that has no development, characters or reason. The laughs come in fits and starts and the film rarely satisfies; fun but nothing to write home about and I'm glad I didn't spent my limited time in Austria watching this. "},{"Title":"One liners steal the show","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Allen is a director, and here he plays one as well, who becomes psycho-psematically blind right before he starts shooting his latest picture for 60 million dollars.  And so, his agent tags along to make sure he stays on the picture in one piece.  The one liners here are classic Allen as there is not one scene that doesn't have them and while they don't all work, when they do it's laugh out loud.  The film is also a good dish for movie buffs.  The ending itself, by the way, is absolutely appropriate.  Favorite lines- the black plague (he calls this as a disease in an early restaurant scene), call Dr. Kevorkian (after the first screening of the movie), and- you should put a full page ad in the DGA cause you'll never stop working (after Thiessen shows Allen her assets).  A- "},{"Title":"time-marking comedy from a master filmmaker","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"18 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Did your mother ever tell you that it wasn't polite to make fun of blind people?  Well, apparently, Woody Allen's mother didn't, since this is exactly what he does for a good hour or more in his latest film, `Hollywood Ending.' (Or, perhaps, he just doesn't WANT to be polite).  Whatever the case, Allen himself stars as Val Waxman, a once brilliant film director who has fallen on hard times, partly due to his own temperamental nature and partly to his own tendency for obsessive/compulsive behavior and chronic hypochondria, all of which have made him anathema to Hollywood's major producers.   Tea Leoni plays Val's ex-wife, Ellie, who convinces her current fiancé, studio boss Hal (played by Treat Williams), to take a chance on Val and turn a multimillion dollar film project over to the iconoclastic director.  All is going well until, right on the eve of production, Val develops a case of psychosomatic blindness, a condition he and a few close allies try to keep a secret during the making of the film.  The majority of `Hollywood Ending' revolves around Val's attempts to keep people from finding out the truth and delivering a creditable motion picture to the studio heads at the same time.In many ways, this pallid comedy combines the slapstick elements of Allen's early works (`Bananas' and `Sleeper') with the cynicism of his later, more mature explorations of modern urban romantic life (`Annie Hall,' `Manhattan').  Unfortunately, `Hollywood Ending' winds up as an uneasy hybrid of the two forms, mixing lowbrow comic mugging and pratfalls with the customary angst-ridden dithering that Allen has been indulging in (often quite effectively) for well nigh a quarter of a century now.  Well, the bloom is definitely off the rose here.  Part of the problem is that Allen's neurotic tics are amusing only when he has some serious points to make under all the humor.  In this film, however, he is providing no insights to go along with the chatter so that he comes across as whiney and self-absorbed rather than witty and ironical.  Val always seems to be blathering a mile a minute, so much so that we finally just want him to shut up and give us a moment's silence.  To make matters worse, the scenes of broad physical comedy &#150; Allen bumping into furniture, Allen breaking glasses, Allen falling off platforms &#150; are not particularly well executed, lacking the kind of adept, split second timing essential to make such scenes comically effective.  Thus, the film fails on two levels  both as a work of slapstick and as a verbal comedy of ideas.  The film could, potentially, have scored as an acerbic satire on the ludicrous commercial values that define the American film industry, yet even most of these `inside' jokes seem strangely unoriginal and old hat, especially coming from a man as attuned to the industry as Woody Allen.Although Allen, in his old age, has degenerated into little more than a wan parody of himself, Tea Leoni sparkles as Ellie, creating a character who is simultaneously strong, sensible, insecure and vulnerable.  Leoni's performance is, literally, the anchor that keeps this otherwise lighter-than-air trifle from floating away completely.  Barney Cheng does a nice job playing a Chinese translator whom Val uses to help him carry off this impossible charade; Mark Rydell provides some memorable moments as Val's helpful agent; and Debra Messing glows as Val's beautiful but bubble headed `significant other,' who is far more concerned about losing her part in the movie than losing her role as bedmate to the neurotic director.It would be unfair, as well as untruthful, to say that `Hollywood Ending' did not afford a couple of pretty impressive laughs along the way.  This IS a Woody Allen film, after all.  And even Woody on a bad day is better than many of our Hollywood humorists on a good day.  But with so many great films in his oeuvre, one naturally goes into this film with high expectations.  When a final assessment is made of all of Allen's prodigious cinematic output, `Hollywood Ending' will wind up somewhere very near the bottom of the list.  "},{"Title":"Please Reward Woody Allen!","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen is a comic genius who plays himself in this film as Val Waxman. I don't believe his on screen relationship with Debra Messing or with Tea Leoni but that's Woody Allen for you. This film has him playing a down and out New York City film director who gets to make a film in the city with a Chinese cinematographer who can't speak English. Just days before filming commences, his character comes down with blindness. He can't let the cast, crew, and backers know he's really blind. But still, I do enjoy a good Woody Allen comedy. It's light-hearted at times in this film. If you don't get Woody Allen, I'm sorry that you probably wouldn't like the film. Anyway, I think it's time he got his Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for television; the Cecil B. DeMille Award; the National Medal of the Arts; and the Kennedy Center Honors. It's just time for him to get his rewards. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's film is intelligent, charming and well acted","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood EndingFirst-Viewing, TV(Woody Allen)- Woody Allen, Tea Leoni, Mark Webber, George Hamilton, Treat WilliamsWoody Allen directs, writes and stars in this semi-comedy, semi drama film about a Hollywood director (Allen) who is directing a film, and meanwhile suddenly goes blind. Meanwhile he has to work with his ex-wife(Leoni) who is now dating the owner (Williams) of the studio producing the film. The film has its typical Woody Allen jokes, and delivers in its comedy portions, very funny at times. The plot is also very interesting, especially how Woody goes blind. The film has some very good points that even make much more sense now with what Bush is doing in the world (Woody says `Thank god for the french'). Teo Leoni gives a good performance, and Woody is his charming self, Woody fans will him in this one. Mark Webber also gives an interesting performance as Woody's son. Overall a fresh screenplay from Woody, with decent direction and good performances. 9/10    "}{"Title":"Loved it.","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i was not expecting to enjoy this film because everyone i have ever asked what they think of Woody Allens films, has saif that they hate them!Until i saw this, the only other Allen film i have seen is Whatever Works (2009).. Which i only watched because it starred Larry David... And i didn't really pay much attention to the film so much as i was focused more on Larry's performance.So i sat down to watch Hollywood Ending just to see why everyone seems to be so Anti- AllenAnyway, long story short = i loved it!Great story, shown in an interesting way. I love the warm lighting and the long takes.I wasn't a fan of the score, but hey.. you can't have everything!But i am glad i watched it, and i look forward to watching more of Allens films in the near future. "},{"Title":"a blindness comedy","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hollywood Ending which is Woody Allen's 33th movie was released in 2002. This comedy featuring Woody Allen himself in the role of Val Waxman, Tea Leoni and George Hamilton takes place in Allen's favorite set  New York. Val Waxman, an underestimated movie director, receives a proposal out of the blue to direct a big budget movie from his formal wife's new boyfriend  Ed (G. Hamilton). Val's agent forces him to accept the project when he is suddenly reached by a psychosomatic disease that makes him blind. I totally loved this gripping and entertaining comedy ! Once again Allen made us cry laughing with his impressive scenario. His acting was brilliant as usual thanks to his body language that emphasize the seriousness of the disease which is funny of course. Woody Allen's genius to create misunderstandings, like the scene where he thinks his talking to someone when he is actually talking to an empty space, is a talent that I really appreciate. I would recommend this movie to everyone specially people who wants to laugh a lot ! By the way I have never been disappointed by any of Allen's movies. "},{"Title":"I got a big kick out of this film","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I admit to being a big Woody Allen fan; when I was in college, I went to a Woody Allen movie - Play it Again, Sam - and all around me, people were laughing like hyenas. I had no idea what was funny. Now I don't know how I ever thought that.Hollywood Ending is a 2002 film from the prolific Allen, and he gives it to Hollywood but good. He plays a neurotic, hypochondriacal film director named Val who can't get arrested thanks to being so difficult. But in a conference about a film, The City that Never Sleeps, his ex-wife Ellie (Tea Leoni), in charge of development, is positive that he would be the best man for the job. She is shot down by everyone, including her current producer boyfriend Yeager (Treat Williams) but she manages to convince him to at least meet with Val.Val loathes Yeager and he doesn't want to have anything to do with him or Ellie but he's just come home from a Canadian winter shoot for a deodorant commercial, from which he was fired, and he's desperate. His long-suffering agent Al (Mark Rydell) gets him the deal, and Val is hired.The night before the shoot, Val calls Al, in the middle of a Seder, and demands he come over. He's blind. Al gets him to a doctor but there's nothing wrong with Val's eyes. He can't lose the job, so Al goes with him to the set, but is thrown out by Ed (George Hamilton). Al suggests that he find a confidant who can see him through the film. Since Val has demanded a Chinese cameraman who doesn't speak English, the translator needs to be around, so he helps Val out. But Val is going to need a lot more help than the translator.I found the premise and the whole movie quite funny, with some great dialogue and good acting from everyone, including Debra Messing, who plays Val's current bimbo girlfriend, whom he casts in the film.The movie would have been better if Allen had actually attempted to cover up the fact that Val is blind rather than acting just like a blind man. The fact that no one noticed is ridiculous. When someone speaks to him, he looks the opposite way, and he stares straight ahead, and he needs help walking.All in all, I really enjoyed it. It's not his best; it's not his worst. Some very funny scenes and filled with wit. "},{"Title":"Woefully under-rated","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A woefully under-rated Woody Allen comedy. Allen is a high minded film director who refuses to compromise despite having no commercial appeal to anyone. He's so difficult he's only able to get jobs directing COMMERICIALS! He's given the chance to direct a feature from ex-wife Téa Leoni and becomes so overwrought, he goes blind (unbeknownst to the studio or much of the crew). This is one of Allen's flat out funniest films with a great cast, a ridiculous plot and a classic Allen performance. Leoni is hilarious as well. Both are out-shone by Debra Messing as Allen's ditsy girlfriend and would-be actress. The supporting cast is a typical Allen free-for-all & includes Treat Williams, George Hamilton, and Tiffani Thiessen as a very aggressive ingénue. "},{"Title":"Allen keeps his eyes on the prize, no matter what.","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 2002s outing from Mr Woody Allen is a movie that starts off as something rather unassuming and far from his best work (as many of his later movies are) and develops into something quite delightful and full of great comedy (there are at least two great scenes in this film and one quick sight gag that had me laughing as hard as I've laughed since enjoying any of the gags from some time back in Allen's filmography).The film is built around the central idea that Allen is a temperamental, artistic director given the chance of a lifetime to direct a great movie thanks to his ex-wife (Tea Leoni) having pushed for him to get the gig. Leoni is now going out with the suave, smarmy Treat Williams (who has, over the years, provided me with more moments of genuine entertainment than I ever considered before this year) and so there's tension there, of course. But just when you think the whole film will be nothing more than a to and fro between lovers and ex-lovers and it will retread all the familiar material that Allen has covered before . . . . things become even more absurd when Allen's character goes psychosomatically blind and is convinced by his agent that he must go on with the show, somehow faking it through his movie until things get better. If they ever will.Hollywood Ending is a great mix of broad laughs, enjoyable characters and actors (Debra Messing does well as Lori, an aspiring actress in a relationship with Allen, Barney Cheng is a lot of fun as a translator roped in to helping with the whole charade and Tiffani Thiessen gets to have one great scene when her physical charms are lost on a man she doesn't realise is blind - even George Hamilton has fun with his limited screen time) and both an embracing and skewering of Hollywood conventions.As for the ending itself? I knew to brace myself for whatever was going to happen and the title of the film is basically a warning of what may raise it's head to offend Woody fans. With that in mind, I enjoyed almost every moment of this one. It still fell short of the very high mark set by earlier movies in the New Yorker's filmography but it was, in it's own right, an exquisite little comedy with some fantastic individual scenes in there. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen - A True Legend!","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" While watching 'Hollywood Ending', I re-confirmed the fact that there is, there was and there will be only one Woody Allen. The Legendary Film Personality seems to be having a blast in this Funny Flick about a Has-Been Filmmaker who decides to direct a film for his ex, but a psychosomatic ailment strikes him blind just before production is set to begin.! 'Hollywood Ending' is meant for all, it's funny and way to Filmy. Allen is like never-before! He's astounding after he turns blind, he captures the show and like how! I am in awe of him. He can Write, Direct and Act, with such style, such ease and such understanding! He's one of those talents that remain as Legends till you watch Cinema! Watch 'Hollywood Ending' for Woody Allen, he sinks his teeth into the departments he puts himself into. Reccmended to all! "},{"Title":"Hollywood Ending (2002) ***","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I liked when Woody Allen went back to comedy and starred in his own films again during this period. He started showing his age in the 00's, but in this film he's still a lot of fun and capable of being a physical comic. It's a story about a real down on his luck has-been of a director (Allen) who's so desperate that he's reduced to filming commercials in Canada. So he has no choice but to accept an offer to direct a big movie that could put him back on top - the problem is, the two producers are his ex-wife (Tea Leoni) and her new fiancé who stole her from Allen (Treat Williams). Right before production all the stress gets to Woody and he experiences psychosomatic blindness and has to direct the whole movie without being able to see. He can't blow this important opportunity and has to fake his way through without letting anyone but his trustworthy agent and his Asian cameraman's interpreter know what's happening.This is a sure-fire recipe for laughs, and it mostly delivers. Tea Leoni is perfect for the role of Woody's long-suffering ex who's stuck working with him again under such touchy circumstances. I also enjoy Mark Rydell as his dedicated agent and mentor. Debra Messing plays another in a long line of ditzy young girlfriends who can't seem to resist shacking up with the 66-year-old Allen. The one flaw is that the movie goes on a tad long, and maybe the gag wears thin by the home stretch. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Will you all just give Woody Allen a break?","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Today, (I'm speaking of the year 2002) Woody Allen is the most oppressed man in show business. Anywhere Woody Allen is being discussed, you've got to have some skeptical idiot commenting on how Woody doesn't make classic films anymore like he used to and that he should retire. Never in my life have I heard such a selfish amount of crap. I love Woody Allen, and I always have. And I also understand that the just-turned-forty Woody Allen is gone! GET OVER IT! The man makes movies because he loves his job, but also, he does it for us, his loving audience. A movie from him is a gift, and I always take it thankfully. And I don't know about you, but I'm not going to turn my back on one of the greatest comical geniuses of all time just because (and I say this mocking all of you here who complain about this) He doesn't make me think anymore! Wahahaha!I am the first to agree that Hollywood Ending isn't anything like Hannah and Her Sisters (my favorite Woody movie), Manhattan or Bananas, but it is still really entertaining and I enjoyed it very much. I enjoyed it because when I walked in the theater, my expectations weren't of those who always think Woody Allen is at the mercy of the audience, and that we, the audience, are the judges of his career. Allen is 66 years old and he's still making movies! He has a right to decline in his old age. And I always look forward to all upcoming Woody Allen flicks because I know what he'll deliver. A nice, gentle, and hilarious comedy about what trouble he's now gotten himself into.Hollywood Ending is just that. Woody Allen plays Val Waxman, an academy-award winning has-been director who, after years of directing simple and fast-forgotten commercials, gets the chance to direct an almost-major motion picture that might put him back on the map. Just as filming is about to start, a mysterious and thought-to-be-temporary blindness takes over Val, and he can't see a thing. He can hear, talk, but he can't see. So now he has to make a choice. Will he say that he can't direct the film because he's blind and go back to his prosaic life? Or will he find a way to direct a movie blind without anyone except few people whom he can trust know? Well, the movie is 1 hour 52 minutes long, and normally movies as long as that don't feature a person saying, No, guys, I can't direct this film. and then end...This movie, as I see it, never goes dull. Always you will be glued to your chair wondering what is going to happen next. And believe me, it's a ride. As far as Woody Allen one liners go, there are several true hilarious ones in the first half of the film. Sadly, however, towards the end of the other half, the movie digresses more into a... gagless comedy, if you will. However, it doesn't take your eyes off the screen at all.This movie is definitely worth the 8 bucks and then some. Woody might not have the ironic and wise flare that he had before, but if there is one torch that will never die in Woody it is that of entertainment. Watch this movie. Laugh. Don't be disappointed just because Annie Hall was better. Those days are gone, and very doubtfully will Woody relive them. This is the Woody that lives now. And I don't care what others say, I still adore him and always will. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful, warm and funny film!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love Woody Allen films, and this brilliant offering is no exception. Full of quick wit and humour with one-liners that have you laughing out loud. A wonderful movie that I rented first and loved so much that I went out and bought the dvd. Super! "},{"Title":"Woody's Movie Movie in-joke bonbons for long time fans","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen's movies have always been saturated with references to other movies and with self-referential commentary on the artistic process, but 'Hollywood Ending' is his first thoroughgoing 'movie movie.' From its credit sequence, accompanied by '30s tunes like 'Hooray for Hollywood' and 'Goin' Hollywood,' to its not quite Hollywood ending, 'Hollywood Ending' is Allen's most complete skewering of the American movie-making business and his own place therein.Probably the film's weakest element is Allen's own acting, always limited to a few comic tics, but lately reduced to non-stop spastic arm movements and a stammering speech that borders on post-stroke aphasia. His self-casting in comic romantic lead roles, once a charming anti- type element of his persona, has become increasingly grotesque as the age of his leading ladies - in art as in life - has descended from his own ballpark to half and now a third of that. Nevertheless, in 'Hollywood Ending,' Allen is so perfectly cast as has-been 'auteur' Val Waxman these weaknesses are easy to overlook.In most respects, 'Hollywood Ending' is very smoothly structured. For instance, the film's crosscut opening scenes economically set up both the film-making plot and its love triangle. Val's former wife Ellie (Tea Leonie) lobbies her new love interest Hal Jaeger, the head honcho at Galaxy Pictures (Treat Williams), to hire Val to direct a new studio 'property' set in New York. Prompted by her own ambition, a little guilt, and what turns out to be a lingering soft spot for Val, Ellie fends off objections that Val is a demanding, budget-overrunning 'artiste' with the argument that he's perfect for the movie because (like Allen himself) 'the streets of New York are in his marrow.' She also counters the claim that 'Val's a raving, incompetent, psychotic' with the first of many familiar Allen backhanded quips 'He is NOT incompetent!' Meanwhile, we cut to Val, now reduced to doing a deodorant commercial in a driving Canadian blizzard. On the phone to his live-in would be starlet girlfriend (Debra Messing) he kvetches in perfect Allen pitch 'I've got two Oscars. Up here you don't need Oscars. You need Antlers.'After Val returns to New York, his smarmy agent (charmingly played by Mark Rydell) convinces him to meet with Hal and Ellie despite Val's contempt for the first ('he's a Philistine') and betrayed anger at the other ('she's a Quisling). Val's approach-avoidance conflict is expressed in a witty variation of Allen's favorite Groucho Marx joke 'I'd kill for this job, but the people I want to kill are the ones offering me the job.' Val eventually does 'take a meeting' with the studio people, including Hal, Ellie, and a wisecracking associate producer (George Hamilton). Through Val's hapless participation in discussions about the film's box office potential and 'demographics,' Allen manages some telling satiric jabs at Hollywood commercialism. 'Hal,' Ellie tells Val in a follow-up private meeting, 'has made some very financially successful American films.' To which Val responds 'That should tell you all you need to know about him. He's the white line down the middle of the road.'Along with sardonic comments on the movie industry, Allen mixes in much of his familiar shtick like hypochondria jokes (Ellie blames their marriage breakup on Val's fears of such imaginary illnesses as black plague, allergy to oxygen, and elm blight), invidious California New York comparisons (California is the land of power failures, herbalist gurus, and routine skin cancer removals), masturbation endorsements ('the best part is afterward, the cuddling time'), and illusion-breaking asides ('Follow the story,' Val admonishes a restaurant patron who can't answer his plot questions ). Many of these one-liners and routines, along with other situational materials in 'Hollywood Ending,' resonate with deliberate (at least one hopes deliberate) recycling from great Allen films like 'Annie Hall,' 'Manhattan,' and 'Crimes and Misdemeanors.''Hollywood Ending's' second act consists of the preproduction and production of 'The City that Never Sleeps,' apparently intended as a dumbed-down remake of a gritty '40s urban drama. Val's first step is to hire a Chinese cameraman who knows no English and a business grad student translator who becomes his on-the-set conspirator after the psychosomatic blindness sets in. The translator eventually becomes a bit of a film critic a la the hit man in 'Bullets Over Broadway.' The location-scouting scenes with a gay art director who decides he simply must rebuild Times Square, Harlem, Central Park, and the Empire State Building are among the film's funniest, leading finally to the shooting sequences, Val's hysterical (in both senses) blindness, and a series of physical humor and cross purposes gags that owe as much to Abbott and Costello as to any of Allen's American comic film predecessors.When, as the result of a weak plot device involving his strange/estranged son, Val recovers his sight and gets to see the footage he has created, his two word response is a side-splitter 'Call Dr. Kevorkian!' Ironically, however, Val's blindness has transformed a commercial potboiler into an avant garde, Godardish anti-film that bombs in the U.S. but is a triumph in France. Like much of Allen's own work since 'Annie Hall,' Val Waxman's 'The City That Never Sleeps' is much too artsy-foreign for American audience tastes, but as he exclaims 'Thank God the French exist. . . . Here I'm a bum, there I'm a genius.' In 'Hollywood Ending's' Hollywood ending, Val and the reconciled Ellie are off to Paris to live and film a love story - that is, if they haven't forgotten the Dramamine.Although 'Hollywood Ending' does not compare favorably with Robert Altman's 'The Player' when it comes to Hollywood-bashing nor with Allen's more ambitious films of the last decade like 'Husbands and Wives' and 'Deconstructing Harry' in terms of artistic success, it has a sharply written, witty script and far more hits than misses among its (no)sight gags. On its most satisfying level, the film is a movable feast of in-joke bonbons for long-time Allen fans. "}{"Title":"Nice Woody Allen Comedy","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is quite an interesting Woody Allen movie, in which he seems to satirize his problems with the studios, journalists and shooting movies even if generally it's just good old Woody, not that I mind. I find his movies always enjoyable.This particular one has all the usual Woody jokes, about all type of subjects, that work very well. The actors are good too Allen is better in this one then in others, and the way he plays the blind gags is brilliant. Téa Léoni is very expressive and all the supporting cast does well, as usual in his movies.The directing is regular, with no shots with brilliance, but not academic; typical of a Woody movie I'd say. It's a nice movie, and I recommend it if you want a nice Woody. 7/10 "},{"Title":"How to Make a Movie in other words, though Blind","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The reviewers hated it, but I love anything with 'Woody Allen' on the marquee. You see all the ins and outs of making a movie from the save-money-at-any-costs producer, the watch-dog accountant Hamilton, who misses his support group for account execs who can't afford their own private plane, the whoring aspiring actress, the neurotic cameraman, the neurotic set designer, who wants to build an Empire State Building look-alike because the real one 'won't do'...but will settle for the first 20 stories, etc. etc.As a public apologia to his real life son, Woody goes blind to represent his neglect of his Mohawk-haired, nose-ringed punk rocker son. He tells his dad in a tender, hilarious meeting that he has changed his name, now that he has grown and matured to 'Scumbag'. After fussing and fussing at his son, Woody finally says to his son in a line that had me crying and laughing, well, Scumbag, I just came here to tell you I love you, and I'm sorry. or words to that effect. Have you been a great parent in your plunge for the golden ring, your obeisance to the great God Career? If so, then you may not appreciate these scenes. I loved them. And I hope his son can forgive him for his jerk-like ways.Don't know if I could, but just as I couldn't forgive Clinton his Monica, I still think he was a great brilliant president....as Woody Allen is a great movie maker and writer. The to-and-fro he has with his estranged wife is pure Woody Allen you've seen it in many of his movies. The contradictions in 5 seconds...which aren't lies, but revealed epiphanies.....are real life relations from human beings trying to co-exist with other human beings in an intimate manner.We don't all succeed, but damn it, some keep trying. Just as Woody does. Again, another photographic ode to NYC. And you'll be excused if you don't hear the dialogue for listening to the trumpet in Jackie Gleason's Serenade in Blue. YOu'll have to excuse me. I'm going to buy it right now. "},{"Title":"Standard Woody Allen. Great!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you like Woody Allen movies, you'll like Hollywood Ending. This is a light comedy and it's ok for a genius like Woody Allen to make light comedies, too. It's warm and funny and I liked it alot and I think you will, also, if you'll just give it a try. "},{"Title":"Not his best but still better than anyone else's.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I Love Woody Allen, This movie isn't even released here and I bought the US dvd I was so anxious to see it and I was not disappointed.Yes, It isn't his best, it lacks the heart of Husbands and Wifes and Annie Hall, nor does it have the wonderful happy feeling of Jade Scorpion and Radio Days, but I still loved it, he has some great one-liners and this man is a pure joy to watch- he points out just how depressing everything is and still makes me smile. In my opinion this film better that anything else American Cinema has to offer and to miss Woody Allen's 34th film would be a true shame.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood Ending 7/10","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In Woody Allen's most recent movie Hollywood Ending that seems more like his older films, he plays aging director Val Waxman. He hasn't had a decent offer in ten years, when he was on the top of his game. While in Canada shooting a deodorant commercial, executives from Galaxie Pictures think that he'd be the best to direct their new big-budget blockbuster, The City That Never Sleeps.When Val gets back from Canada, his live-in girlfriend Lori (Debra Messing) begs him to take the film so she can be in it. Lori doesn't really seem to like Val that much; she only wants to be in some of his movies. Val seems ecstatic. Until he finds out who he's working for.His ex-wife Ellie (Tèa Leoni) and her new fiancee Hal Yeager (Treat Williams). Val's agent Al Hack (Mark Rydell) begs him to take the job, and he reluctantly does. But, after the first day, Val gets psychosomatic blindness (why not?). He trusts Al with the secret, but when Al can't stay on the set all the time, Val needs help. Fast.Allen is in top form here, doing better than his more recent (The Curse of the Jade Scorpion is what I have in mind). His comedy is mainly one-liners, and most of them are really funny. I saw it for the second time, and it obviously isn't as funny as the first, but I did do a lot of ha!s. You can't remember all the jokes told, so some can still hit you.The classic music that Allen puts into all his movies doesn't seem like it would fit in the 2002 Hollywood, but somehow it does. It brings out the somewhat noir-ish mood that is involved somehow. The script is sometimes too packed with jokes, and it would seem that Allen is trying to win back his 70s and 80s audience.Incidentally, the major plot of the movie deals with Allen's own life. He was big in the 70s and 80s (Annie Hall, Hannah and her Sisters, etc.) but now is trying to win back the success he had before. Of course, Allen is still popular, but doesn't bring back all of everything he had before.Everyone played nicely with each other during acting. Even though the age difference between Allen and Leoni, I still believed that it did happen. Allen looks older and is maybe slowing down. Who knows?Hollywood Ending, which produces what the title says, is a funny saga and spoof of Hollywood gone wrong.My rating 7/10Rated PG-13 for some drug references and sexual material. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Ending is a Woody Allen movie about Woody Allen making a movie.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  -----POSSIBLE SPOILER-----Hollywood Ending is a Woody Allen comedy.  Val Waxman Woody Allen, a famous movie director on the slippery slope to obscurity, is an inventive hypochondriac whose former illnesses include Dutch Elm and Hoof & Mouth diseases and he's just a touch neurotic!!  Val lands a job directing for Hal Treat Williams the studio head his former wife Ellie Tea Leoni plans to merry.  Lori Debra Messing---TV's Will and Grace, an airhead and aspiring actress is Val' current roommate, she sees him as the next step out of the trailer park and amazingly lands a role in the movie.  Val comes down with a case of psychosomatic blindness on the first day of filming. Fortunately, the Chinese student hired to translate for the Chinese cameraman keeps Val' secret until he's fired by the Producer George Hamilton.  Ellie steps in to fill Val' blind spot---so to speak---and the finished movie has a Hollywood ending that even Jerry Lewis would love you must see the film to appreciate this reference.Hollywood Ending is a Woody Allen movie about Woody Allen making a movie. Woody does a bang up job of impersonating himself; one sequence shows him at his absolute best.  In a restaurant dialogue scene with Leoni he transitions between normal and lunatic personas in the blink of an eye.  He can't steal the show from the excellent cast, that's done by Tea Leoni a consummate straight-faced comedian.  Allen fans are in for a treat with fast one liners, smart humor, sarcasm and subtle jabs at NYC and Hollywood entertainment types.  There's also a story line that's inventive, ironical and perfectly constructed.Woody Allen is an acquired taste.  You won't be shocked to know that Hollywood Ending is just a bit autobiographical-what you'd expect from a neurotic narcissist.  Allen fans should give their eyeteeth to see this film and will be rewarded for their blind faith in his talent. The film may be a shot in the dark, but it's eye popping funny.  The jokes are a thumb in the eye of the movie making business and you'll laugh so hard that you'll cry. Personally, eye enjoyed the fresh look at Hollywood through the eyes of the ultimate New Yorker.  "},{"Title":"The most perplexing thing about Hollywood Ending is Roger Ebert's review of it.","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have the most profound respect--reverence--for Roger Ebert'sinsight.  His love of film is obvious in every review he writes.  Thatis why I am so annoyed with his conclusion that this is not amongWoody's best work.  I think it is.  `Hollywood Ending' has biglaughs all the way through.  But it has something else.  It remindsme of the sensitivity in `Manhattan'.  There is a scene whereWoody, hysterically blind, asks, on-the-verge-of-begging asks, TéaLeoni to help him.  The look on his face is one I've never seenbefore.  Hold that moment a beat longer and it would have been awee tear for Woody in desperate need; I found it particularlymoving.  There are other equally moving moments involvingWoody and his son Tony, played by Mark Webber, but I won't spoilthat for you.  Téa Leoni is nothing short of amazing This is thebest I've seen her.  The real surprise for me though is film directorMark Rydell's performance as Woody's agent.  I remember Rydellas actor in Robert Altman's `The Long Goodbye'.  There hedelivered a tense, gritty performance--a little like RomanPolanski's brief appearance in `Chinatown'.  Here he is roundfaced and smiling, puts a positive spin on everything, there's nevera dark moment no matter how dark the moment is.  And he does itso believably I had difficulty remembering, &#145;that's Mark Rydell!' Now that's the kind of transparency for which all actors shouldstrive.  Debra Messing is perfect as Woody's daffy  actress/girlfriend, as is Treat Williams playing the studio boss ofGalaxie Pictures.  And the inside jokes, jabs at the movie industry,are as good as I've seen lately--as inside jokes go.  Woody hasoften said he leans hard on Bob Hope as inspiration.  In myhumble opinion, this is Woody's greatest homage to Bob Hopesince Love And Death, with a few nods to Keaton and Chaplintoo. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Excellent comedy! Woody's back on top.. Original and hilarious one-liners throughout the movie and right to the end.. Great performances and a fresh well-told classic story. Lots of twists and turns - the story really bends nicely, and with lots of hints and sarcasm. "},{"Title":"What a Movie!!","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was amazing. I watched this while my unfortunate friends endured the Lord of the rings and how glad I am that I was antisocial this time. It was from start to finish a classic. Very entertaining and clever. Not quite like most Woody Allens where you just spend the whole movie with a smile glued to your face but instead with reflective bits coming together slowly to set up an original and amazingly funny plot. He constantly fires shots at both the blockbuster and the arty side of hollywood including himself. Nobody could have done this. All the performances are great as well. "},{"Title":"Woody does it again!","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" He does it again as he has done so many times before; he's funny.He makes me laugh.This time Woody plays what he really is, a movie director.He's a man named Val Waxman who hasn't been in the spotlight in a while.But now he gets an opportunity to direct a big film again.That chance he gets from his ex-wife Ellie (Téa Leoni).There's a little problem there.And also that Ellie's studio boss boyfriend Hal (Treat Williams) is around.When he should start directing the film he goes psychosomatically blind.And as we all know, it's hard to direct a movie blind.But he doesn't go spreading the news that he's blind.First it's only his agent Al (Mark Rydell) who knows.But Al can't be around all the time helping him so they tell the Chinese cameraman's translator (Barney Cheng).But then he's fired by the cameraman so they have to tell Ellie.Woody Allen's Hollywood Ending (2002) is the modern Woody Allen at his funniest.He's as funny as can be in the lead.He made me laugh number of times.The rest of the cast does great job also.Tea Léoni is wonderful as Ellie.Mark Rydell is terrific as Al.There's the great George Hamilton as Ed.Debra Messing does brilliant job as Val's girlfriend Lori.Tiffani Thiessen is magnificent as Sharon Bates.Jodie Markell's great as Andrea.All the other unmentioned actors and actresses are all equally brilliant.This movie has a series of funny scenes.One that made me laugh was when Hal wants to have a chat with Val at Hal's room and everything goes wrong.And remember, he has to pretend that he has his vision all the time.Another one is when Val's at Sharon's room where she tries to seduce him.It's hard to seduce a blind man, well, because he's blind.The movie has some serious moments, too.I mean, Val's packed with all sorts of problems, not only the blindness thing.Hollywood Ending is a wonderfully written, acted and directed movie.It's a near masterpiece.Obviously Woody still haven't lost his touch.Good luck to you Mr.Allen with your future efforts.Let them be as good as this one-or even better. "}{"Title":"What happened to Woody Allen?","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen has made some of the best and funniest films of all time.  Then he made this movie.  While this is not a bad movie it is not as good as the Woody Allen of old.  I have not seen many of his movies recently, but films like The Curse of Jade Scorpion, Mighty Aphrodite, and Deconstructing Harry have been top-notch films.  This one is not very funny.  Allen's neurotic performance is completely lost on me this time, and the script seems mostly as though it is not even attempting to tell jokes.  As a Hollywood director on the skids and desperately in need of a comeback success comes in the form of his ex-wife and her fiancee.    The situation is complicated when he goes blind.  I will admit the ending was appropriately funny, but the movie is stale, and awkward.  I don't think Woody Allen is done, because his recent efforts like The Curse of Jade Scorpion and Mighty Aphrodite have been very good, but I do not know what happened here, Allen really lost his incredible wit on this film.  The one interesting piece of casting was George Hamilton, who mostly was quiet in this film.  I guess this is worth seeing if you are the most die-hard Woody Allen fan. "},{"Title":"brilliant!","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After two years of waiting, I finally could see Hollywood Ending. And it didn't disappoint me. When I saw Sweet and Lowdown, I thought Woody's imagination had finished, or at least, been reduced. The Curse of the Jade Scorpion showed me wrong and this movie is even better. The Chinese made me laugh all the time, Woody's acting AS GOOD AS EVER, the main actress is good also, the plot is great... this movie is brilliant! Spoiler I agree with the message of the film, also. The references to the Oscars are good, the ending is what I always called a Made in Hollywood ending, precisely what he is making fun out... 9/10, thank God that Woody exists  "},{"Title":"Another failed Comedy from Woody Allen","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The good Woody Allen comedies are packed with intelligent jokes and have characters you like and can relate to.   This movie misses on both counts.   There is very  little that is funny in this movie unless you like Woody's exaggerated portrayal of a blind man and everyone else's unbelievable failure to notice that Woody is blind.  The attempts at slapstick comedy based on the problems of a fumbling blind man are embarrassingly bad. But the bigger problem is that Woody's character is so unlikeable.   He plays a bad director that treats Tea Leoni badly.   It is hard to understand how they could have ever been married or why she would ever consider going back to someone so stupid, untalented, and insensitive.The final problem is that this movie drags on much too long.   There is an incredible amount of pointless dialog that is uninteresting and does not advance the plot.   The only part of the movie that works for me is the scene with Woody's estranged son, Scumbag X.   Scumbag is an interesting original character  whose intelligence is in stark contrast to all the idiots that populate the rest of the movie.  That scene had my favorite Allen line I love you, Scumbag.       "},{"Title":"Funniest Woody since 'Bullets over Broadway'","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is easily Woody's funniest since 'Bullets over Broadway' (1994), and his warmest film since then, as well. It's also his best film since at least 'Sweet and Lowdown' (1999), with excellent performances from Woody (who's frankly been coasting in many of his recent films) as well as Tea Leoni and Mark Rydell as his agent Al. It could have done with some more biting stuff about Hollywood, and it runs too long by about 20 minutes, but it's a lot of fun and well worth seeing. I'm looking forward now to 'Anything Else', which I still haven't seen. Hopefully, this signals an upturn in the quality of Woody's films. I was getting very nervous there for a while with crap like 'Small Time Crooks' and 'Curse of the Jade Scorpion'.  "},{"Title":"Fresh and original story...classic Woody Allen.","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is by far one of the year's most original films. It will certainly not win anything special, but HOLLYWOOD ENDING is still quite an entertaining trip. There are no majorly huge laughs in this film, but Woody Allen is a master at creating ingenious stories and plots that have never been done before. He is not one to go for the 'crude' humor feel that most films do go for nowadays. Now, yes, I love crude humor movies, but where would we be without Woody Allen?This film is a far better improvement over his 'not-very-funny' PICKING UP THE PIECES and his even worse SMALL TIME CROOKS, which didn't really have much of a story to it. He is good and in a way daring, as it almost seems like he begins his screenplays without any idea as to how they will end. Usually, these types of films are not good ones, but Mr. Allen has the gift to be able to pull off an effective and original story for one of the better film's of his career. There is only one problem that I can spot-- and that is that I feel that Woody Allen doesn't have a great knack for being able to write effective dramatic moments. His moments of the film that try to be touching, are not really all that good, and they aren't all that believable as far as drama goes. Still, his humorous moments are pretty good, but you must have the proper sense of humor in order to understand Woody's creative comedy style.While I wouldn't call the film 'unforgettable', it is still quite an enduring experience and you probably will not forget it any time soon. I recommend that you see the two other films that I mentioned, and his animated debut ANTZ, which is still one of the best animated films ever. Still yet, you should see this movie. It isn't going to be anything big, but still, HOLLYWOOD ENDING is a movie you should see.HOLLYWOOD ENDING 4/5. "},{"Title":"Decent fluff, but Woody can do better","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen has always been a compulsive writer, but in the early 2000s it seemed he wasn't striving for making a particularly deep movie, rather for recreating the feel of his 'early funny ones' and returning to his slapstick roots. Unfortunately, 'the late funny ones' (Hollywood Ending, The Curse of the Jade Scorpion, Scoop, etc.) probably look funnier on paper than what ended up on the screen (with the exception of the outstanding Small Time Crooks). Allen does pique our interest, but he himself doesn't seem to be interested enough to really flesh out his comedic sketches.One of his most glaring mistakes in this period is that he either forces miscast actors to play his younger alter ego (John Cusack in Bullets Over Broadway or Jason Biggs in Anything Else), or he himself gives a mannered, over-acted, sub-par performance, as in The Curse of the Jade Scorpion. In Hollywood Ending, he practically demonstrates how not to play a blind man. (In my opinion, Sean Penn in Sweet & Lowdown and Kenneth Branagh in Celebrity were brilliant Woody-clones &#x97; it might have been better if one of them had returned to play Allen's role here.) The other problem with the late funny ones is the lack of balance. The plot of Jade Scorpion was thin and unfocused, yet the dialogues were witty, while in Hollywood Ending it's the other way round the overall plot is well-developed, but the scenes themselves are boring. Instead of fleshing out his ideas, Allen's mind is already working on the next sketch to be shot and released within a year.Nearly 15 years have passed since then, but there's still no sign of Woody slowing down. Maybe he should have, but as long as he continues to make two or three truly great movies every ten years (and refrains from making such dismally awful pictures as Melinda and Melinda), I'll gladly pay the price of watching the fluff in between. "},{"Title":"An entertaining film that is neither one of Allen's best or worst","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As said before, Woody Allen is a very acquired taste. To me he has made a lot of great films, a handful of masterpieces and while there have been some disappointments, while there are films of his yet to see, none of them have been terrible. Hollywood Ending has often been considered lesser Allen, and while it is not a masterpiece in any shape or form(like Annie Hall, Manhattan, Crimes and Misdeameanours, Hannah and Her Sisters, Husbands and Wives and Purple Rose of Cairo, Zelig is also very close to being one) and does fall short of great it is not among the bottom(so far What's Up Tiger Lily, To Rome with Love, Celebrity, Anything Else and Cassandra's Dream, although all of them had a fair share of redeeming qualities). Hollywood Ending is imperfect, the blindness joke has been much criticised and I have to agree, it is a joke so stretched out it becomes very tiring, the pacing as a result in the last act lost momentum and credibility went out the window. Much more could have been done with the subplot and relationship of Allen's character and his son, it was pretty much in the background and like a secondary subplot and it was a subplot that if more prominent could have given the film more heart and it would have made their relationship more interesting, in the end it felt under-baked. On the other hand, Hollywood Ending as always with Allen is very well-directed and looks fabulous with cinematography that is colourful and dreamlike. Hollywood Ending aside from the blindness joke is a very entertaining film, the one-liners are just delicious, Val has the best lines and they are just hilarious, and the gags are very characteristic of Allen and are well-engineered. As ever with Woody Allen, the film also has a lot to say about various subjects and explores them in an insightful and sometimes self-mocking way(that is sometimes and understandably considered self-indulgence). The story up till the last act has relationships and issues that we can identify with strongly, is well-paced and there is plenty of compelling story-telling. Hollywood Ending is expertly played with the best performance coming from Tea Leoni, who is immensely charming with very easy comic timing, closely followed by Woody Allen himself, who makes the most of his lines and delivers them in a way that makes them even funnier. Treat Williams is always a joy and Debra Messing looks as though she's enjoying herself. Admittedly some of the cast should have had more to work with, such as George Hamilton, but they are no less impressive. On the whole, Hollywood Ending has its flaws and Allen has done better work but it is an entertaining film in a lot of ways. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A calmer Allen","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hollywood Ending is a funny comedy, but only a mid-level Woody Allen film. Although he is still neurotic, bumbling, hypochondriac and caustic, Woody seems slightly more relaxed than usual here - as if he's learned how to live with his neuroses and be more comfortable with them. The blindness joke gets overplayed, but there are still enough clever and laugh-out-loud lines & bits of physical comedy in this film to make it worth your while. The supporting cast contributes a lot, especially the stylish Tea Leoni, the slick Treat Williams, and the goofy Debra Messing (who does look like she works out a lot, just like her character in the film!) The cinematography is particularly vibrant. Pleasant, light fare for a slow weekend. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Leoni's Great","Date":"11 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen can get any actor he wants to be in his films because he's Woody Allen, so this film has a great cast. Tea Leoni, Treat Williams, George Hamilton to name a few. The comedy is subtle; so much so, it's almost on life-support. Allen's comedy is absurd and fun and that's entertaining, but there are only a few big laughs.The conflict If you believe Woody's character, movie-director Val, is really worried about his career's impending demise, and that's the premise at the start, you're alone, but the suspense does kick in when Val loses his sight.Unfortunately, the psychosomatic blindness is milked through the entire movie, much to its detriment. There are two possible reasons Val goes blind 1. He is blinded by his alienation from his son, or 2. he's blinded by his ex-wife, Ellie's (Tea Leoni) engagement to a megalomania-cal screen mogul, Hal (Treat Williams). One of these two plot-lines takes the lame-red-herring-award-of-the-decade.About the performances Tea Leoni should have been nominated for an Oscar. She owned the film. Debra Messing, who plays Val's live-in dumb girlfriend Lori, puts on a 1940 period costume to act in Val's movie. Messing is the spitting image of Ingrid Bergman, in particular the hair-do and nose. Spooky. Treat Williams has never been better as the controlling, manipulative movie producer. George Hamilton has big laugh lines. Woody's Val is effective, but a little flat.I blinked many times because the whole movie seemed to have been filmed in a lengthy master shot. I never notice the close-ups in Woody's movies. Maybe it's the cinematography. this film is fun because there are so many wonderful characters in the frame at any one moment. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Ending is Vintage Woody Allen **1/2","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen plays a frustrated, neurotic director who has a major opportunity to stage a comeback in this funny film. Of course, the producer is his ex-wife and her fiancé.Tea Leoni plays his new girl friend who gets a part in the film. Trouble is that as the film is beginning to shoot, a nervous and stressed out Allen goes blind. The rest of the film is devoted to Woody trying to fumble his way through the film while attempting to fool all concerned regarding his condition.The jokes are pretty stale. We get such lines as talking is what you have to get through on the way to sex.Other than Allen and his ex-wife, the rest of the cast is generally wasted. We have an Chinese camera man whose interpreter will act as a guide for Woody throughout the film. Marian Seldes and Isaac Mizrachi briefly appear as costume and set designers. Both are flamboyant but their parts should have been expanded to add to the hilarity. The latter is missed here.Usual heavy Treat Williams appears in the film as the producer who just can't trust Allen.With the truth coming out, the film that Allen has directed becomes a flop. That's not a lot to say about this film as well. Of course, love finds all when Woody reunites with his ex-wife. Was he blind to give her up in the first place? "}{"Title":"Quite Entertaining","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After seen a couple of Woody Allen movie I have come to realize he will only do this kind of movie, it is as if you see the same movie with different situation. This time it is about the blind guy try to direct the movie.Yea, the movie ain't that bad and the stories aren't boring but with it predictable and almost similar to his previous work it start to get a little stain. The cast is brilliant with a very average acting but still a really directing and lighting. What I like about the movie the script and the dialogs which has been brilliantly written and has been used intelligenly.For those who haven't seen his previous work and the fans of Woody will definitely love the movie of its ideas and how it was made and especially with all those cast of young female actress around. I have no regret watching this but at least he could bring in something more than just one point that elaborate into one movie.Recommendation On In All, A Very Decent Movie, Good For Past Time. Rating 6/10 (Grade C)Thank You For Reading. "},{"Title":"Good Woody Allen comedy that's pretty hilarious","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In my opinion, Hollywood ENDING is a good Woody Allen comedy that's pretty hilarious. If you ask me, Val (Woody Allen) and Ellie (Téa Leoni) made the perfect couple, even though they had divorced. There was only one person I absolutely couldn't stand at times, and that was Hal (Treat Williams). This was because he didn't treat Eddie with very much respect. The word that come to mind when I think of Hal is psychotic. The reason I said that is because he stole a film's print and held it hostage. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, Woody Allen has scored big time! Now, in conclusion, to all you Woody Allen fans who have not seen this good Woody Allen comedy that's pretty hilarious, I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Comedy in the Vein of Bananas or Sleeper","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After seeing the execrable Small Time Crooks, I was expecting the worst from Hollywood Ending. I am happy to say I was pleasantly surprised. Hollywood Ending certainly isn't flawless, but its charms outweigh its unevenness. Hollywood Ending contained an ample supply of classic Woody Allen one-liners and welcome bits of delightful physical comedy. Woody shines in the role of the angst-ridden, hypochondriac film director Val Waxman. I can't understand why the critics hit this one so hard--maybe they were looking at it as a serious film. This is not a serious film. It is a satisfying light comedy reminiscent of Woody's earlier films. I would suggest watching this film back to back with something like Bananas. I think you'd be surprised with how favorably it compares.Hollywood Ending is not without its shortcomings, though. It is about thirty minutes too long. The exposition at the beginning of the movie takes entirely too much time, and there are a few totally unnecessary scenes that weigh the movie down. Val NEVER knows where people are standing when they talk to him, and this gets old. I mean, if someone is talking into your ear, you're not going to be looking straight ahead. I would've liked to see some of the movie Val was making. The clips from Sandy Bates' film were some of the best parts of Stardust memories. But all in all, these are small potatoes. Hollywood Ending is well worth seeing, whether you are a fan of the Woodman or not. "},{"Title":"Woody lite - good but nothing special","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I laughed a lot at one scene where a film receives extremely bad audience ratings, but overall this film is a little too weak to stand on its own.I won't worry about the Grand Unified Theory of Woody, suffice to say this film goes no place truly interesting, and is only lightly entertaining while doing so. It is well produced and is easy on the eye. The casting is adept as usual, although the lack of edge in any of the characters is unusual in Rom Com. And with the genuinely higher quality of American Sitcoms, weak writing and tired site gags are quite noticeable.I am tempted to say that Woody is still good but the world has moved on - but we know that form is temporary while class is permanent. This may be a minor dip but I'm sure a stronger offering is on the horizon. "},{"Title":"somewhat disappointing ending","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I gave this one a 6 out of 10. Not great, but not bad. It was a pretty funny movie. Not really a visually funny kind of movie, although there was one site gag where Allen falls from a balcony onto a piano. Most of the fun is to be had through oddball characters with personality defects. The characters included a Chinese head cameraman who doesn't speak a word of English but every word he speaks is a scolding, a set designer who feels like recreating New York imagery in a studio even though they are filming right in New York, etc. I think the reason I didn't enjoy this movie more was because the oddballs just disappeared after awhile, and we were just left with Allen as the sole remaining oddball. "},{"Title":"Too nice","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen's disdain for things Hollywood could have made for a winning, sarcastic masterpiece, but this ain't it.  It's too sunny and good-natured (following in the footsteps of Small Time Crooks and Curse of the Jade Scorpion).  Woody has said that he found the screenplays for these three movies stuffed away in his desk, but he didn't mention when he wrote them.  My guess is they were written in the early stages of his career, and perhaps spiced up a bit for modern audiences.  As was the case with Curse of the Jade Scorpion, I have no idea why this movie got a PG-13 rating (the MPAA seems to be harsh on his films, maybe just because he's Woody Allen--Everyone Says I Love You is a case in point).   His supporting cast is good (Tea Leoni, in the typical Woody Heroine role; George Hamilton; Debra Messing, playing a good ditz; and especially Treat Williams).  And the film has more sight gags than his previous two movies.  Woody's character is able to direct a movie with psychosomatic blindness--and that's about as biting as this movie gets towards Hollywood. Good for a rainy day but not required viewing in the Woody canon.  "},{"Title":"Dry, funny, helps if you dig 1) Woody and 2) inside show-biz humor","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For some, it's hard to view a Woody Allen picture (or a Roman Polanski picture) without being able to put aside one's strong feelings about the scandal-plagued director's personal life.  If you can get past that, and you can appreciate inside showbiz humor, Hollywood Ending is a treat.  We found this one on the shelf at Blockbuster, quite by accident.  Either it was never released theatrically, or maybe it was only in limited release in places like West Hollywood or Greenwich Village.  Anyway, we liked it. It was funny.  It was well made.  It reminded us of Woody's early, funny movies.  It was a great send-up of various Hollywood movie studio personalities (and personality disorders).  Woody plays an all-but-washed up, quirky film director whose ex-wife (Tia Leoni) is engaged to, and works for, some shallow, blow-dried movie mogul.  The mogul and Leoni have a project that they think would be perfect for Woody to direct, but is he too quirky?  Leoni sells her fiance on Woody and he is hired for the job for $500,000 plus one-tenth of a point after quadruple break-even.  But Woody suffers a psychosomatic ailment right before shooting starts -- he is blind! The rest of the picture deals with Woody trying to direct a movie while 1) blind and 2) trying to keep his blindness a secret.  The ending, as you might expect from the double-entendre title, is pure Hollywood.  Best line Woody's punk-rocker son has legally changed his name to Scumbag X. Woody I love you, Scumbag.  With this picture, Woody remains one of America's funniest, and most lovable (alleged) scumbags. "},{"Title":"Misunderstanding Woody","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen isn't a filmmaker like the others. His films are often difficult to please because those who like him judge each new film he makes by the highest standards possible his other works. Those who dislike him seem to be annoyed by his narcissism. Yes, he loves himself, but this shouldn't bother but those who have a low esteem for themselves. In order to enjoy Woody Allen's work one must realize that his films ARE NOT to be taken too seriously, even if they contain deep and serious issues. When you become capable of seeing Hollywood Ending with `less serious eyes', you feel lighter and easily get over all the flaws the film has. Perfect films are boring! If Hollywood Ending was taken seriously, Woody Allen would be considered personna non grata in France forever; instead, his film opened the Cannes festival last year. Woody Allen doesn't take himself too seriously, and this is perhaps his best quality. He knows that he isn't handsome, he is aging and he hasn't much time to waste with considerations like `she is too young and too pretty for me'. Not enjoying life is a luxury he can't afford. If you stop to think for a minute, you will realize that this goes for everybody. Last, but not least, I would like to protest against distributors Hollywood Ending wasn't released in Brazil until a few days ago. Why are we always one or two Woody Allens behind the rest of the world? "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the most visual comic movies of Woody Allen very enjoyable. A good criticism (very cliche) of the movie business in the US but adding the comment that Europeans might also be wrong about it. Woody Allen directs himself playing a director that goes blind... Very funny situations come out of this as you might think. Always very thick in its description of the American movie industry but all for a good cause, make us forget our real life for close to 2 hours. Mainly just a good peace of film for Sunday nights... "},{"Title":"Woody in La La Land","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When Woody goes to Hollywood it's always good for a laugh or two. This film is beautifully shot and has some great sets and of course a good music soundtrack but the cast is rather lack luster for an Allen film. Tea Leoni looks like Hilary Clinton (a much prettier Hilary) but Treat Williams, George Hamilton, Debra Messing and the great director Mark Rydell as the agent Al Hack are not very engaging. Woody's films are always worth a visit even a bad Allen film is better than most of the crap Hollywood puts out.   "}{"Title":"Take a look at the true meaning of the title...","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SLIGHT SPOILERS AHEADNo doubt about it, Woody has not lost it yet and the old magic is still there, even if the slapstick is many times deviated to the dialogue. But Woody's films are witty-talking so one should expect this. The one line summary above is the most interesting part of the movie what is the true meaning of the this title? Has this film a Hollywood ending? Or is this really the end of the Hollywood way of doing movies? I refer to this question because the movie Woody's character cooks up is a metaphor for the work of Woody Allen in the end, the europeans are the true lovers of the movie, but isn't it so with all Woody Allen movies? As a known industry-hater living on the other side of the country, he insists of making very special movies, that are much more praised in Europe than in the US. So I think much of the film is auto-biographical, never forgetting that sense of comedy timing that is so characteristic of Allen. No doubt about it, the magic is always there, right from the start with those already classic titles. And even if it has some slight pacing problems, it really doesn't matter it's Woody's turf, and until now it's a safe one.  "},{"Title":"Hurray for Hollywood Ending","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hooray for Hollywoody! What is Hollywoody? It is the neurotic world of the great Woody Allen. His latest film `Hollywood Ending' is one of the funniest films of the year! Woody stars as a one-time famous director who is attempting a comeback by directing a big-budget film. However, before the first day of shooting he is stricken by a mad case of psychosomatic blindness. Now he must disguise his unviewed disorder to all the producers, actors, and crew members working on the film. Yes! You can see (except for Woody) what happens next= neurotic laughs at their best! No one does this better than Sir Woody. Tea Leoni, Treat Williams, Debra Messing are a few of the actors that `wood' not pass up the chance to be in a Woody Allen film and make up the fine ensemble acting of `Hollywood Ending'. Leoni roars with high marks with her performance as the ex-wife producer assistant. I cannot think of a more appropriate ending to my film review of `Hollywood Ending' by stating  `Hooray for Hollywood Ending'. The End! ***** excellent  "},{"Title":"WOODY LOVES BOB","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For years Woody Allen has always expressed his debt to Bob Hope sense of humor and delivery. Well we finally see the proof in this Allen spoof which sort of updates Hope's 1956 film That Certain Feeling.The Allen character is hired by his ex-wife's fiancee to direct a film. The Hope character was hired by his ex-wife's fiance to ghost write for him and the parallels continue. Allen has definitely slowed down and although there are some very sharp and witty lines and the slapstick is kept to the minimum, the film doesn't really have any of 'heart warming' qualities of the original.This is a good watch for those new to Allen but but ultimately disappointing to his real fans, of which I am one, in that no new ground is covered and Woody shows his age. But a 'burned out' Allen with few no thoughts is still funnier than the vast majority of today's pretenders. "},{"Title":"Jekyll & Hyde","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I usually love Woody Allen's films.   When he concentrates on social commentary and satirizing the Hollywood industry, he's brilliant and laugh-out-loud funny. When he fixates on his own imagined babe-attracting persona, even self-deprecatingly, he's boring and self-deluded.  In this movie, we get about 40% of the former, and 60% of the latter -- not a good enough ratio for a successful movie.  Please act your age, Woody, and develop a better film persona for yourself, or stay out of acting entirely.  Your latest flicks (this one and Curse of the Jade Scorpion) come off as clueless self-satire.  At this point in your long career, you have acquired some real skills and film wisdom -- please use then intelligently and stop making yourself the constant gratuitous focus of attention. "},{"Title":"Woody new comedy ... not his new satire.","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A has been director, Hal Waxman, (played by Woody Allen), is given a new chance to get back to success by his ex wife (Tea Leoni). She is engaged with a studio manager and convince the production to employ Hal as director for the new big studio movie. Things get a little complicated when Hal gets blind ... What you must expect by going to see this movie a comedy. A great new comedy. 100% Allen with all the usual topics. Don't expect a great satire of it, you would be disapointed. It's a great comedy in the Allen style.You've got it all, funny jokes and quotes, the shrink, the beautiful girls, and the love story. "},{"Title":"the art of 'comedy'","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There is no camera movement or special effects to make this movie magical. Woody Allen is an amazing writer and an actor with the addition of being a director. This film is about Val Waxman (Woody Allen), a film director from NY, who has not been recently making films. Some reasons of his incapability to find a job is because of his arrogance and megalomania about his past career, his hypochondriac behavior and incompetence to be able to conciliate with his employers. Waxman's ex-wife (Tea Lioni) insists on Waxman's directing this film and Waxman gets to direct it. One day, right before starting his movie, `I can't direct the picture, I am blind!' says Val Waxman. However, he has to do it, because he might lose all the other opportunities he might get in the future as a result of his stained reputation. It is really about this director trying to cover his temporary handicap, continue making his movie and  not to lose his current job. It also holds a small mirror to the entertainment industry and Waxman's love life. This movie criticizes and makes fun of many stereotyped ideas entertainment industry, Canada, French&#133;etc. Woody Allen has clever jokes. Compared to his last movie, The Curse of the Jade Scorpion, I think this one contains less word tricks which adds a plus for foreign audience. I would not value this movie with its artistic picturing, but with its art of comedy. I think one should see this movie for the REAL entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Still clinging to Woody","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a big Woody Allen fan so of course I found this movie within a movie delightful. It does not pack the wallop of some of Woody's finest but stills has that clever overlapping dialog and of course great zingers/one-liners.  "},{"Title":"Best Allen movie since Bullets.","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Allen movies have always fared much better in Europe than North America and judging by the comments on this site and the reactions of the audience in the cinema in Geneva, the dichotomy is increasing. The cinema was just about full and the audience loved it. From a European perspective, this is vintage Allen and his best film in a long while. The scene between Leoni and Allen in the bar towards the beginning of the film is an absolute gem. It seems to have been shot in one long take but how they ever got through this scene without cracking up is a mystery. Indeed, as others have remarked, Leoni gives a remarkable performance and the movie glows whenever she and Allen are on screen to-gether. The dialogue is machine gun fast and incredibly funny. Allen can make movies in many different registers. This is very firmly in the comedy register and is on a par with his best, including Annie Hall.If you enjoy Allen's movies, then ignore the reviews, give yourself a treat and go see his latest venture. "},{"Title":"The Allen Attic","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes Hollywood Ending is Woody Allen on cruise control.  The man has thirty-two films under his scrawny belt so give him a break.  I find that even mediocre Woody Allen is still better than 95% of comedies released each year (Big and small studio releases).  The jokes fall flat more often and there is the initiation phase that lasts about twenty minutes into the film. Yes it is difficult to imagine a man as geriatic looking as Allen with the likes of Tea Leoni and Beverly Hills 90210 stars but this is a Woody Allen comedy, love it or leave it.  This is the same man who created Sleeper and Bananas.  His last few films hark back to his simpler era.  Hollywood Ending after the before mentioned initiation phase where the viewer must clear his or her self of pre-concieved notions (Mia Farrow, Soon-Yi, pedophilia etc.) and just enjoy the show.  This is not Crimes and Misdemeanors or even Manhattan Murder Mystery, Hollywood Ending is Allen clearing out some ideas, crafting them and putting them on display for his audience hoping to get a few laughs. If you are a fan then catch it while it's still playing at a local cineplex.  Most likely you'll have the theater to yourself where you can indulgently chuckle at even the most mundane of the Allenism's and not feel embarrassed.  "},{"Title":"Woody looks to his audience and shows them his view.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the comments I have read I have not come across the reaction that I had to the movie (film).  In Hollywood Ending he is openly discussing his views of movie making and the effect of the studio package on the work of film makers. He contrasts the way he makes a film in New York with the way that the studio would have a director work.  In the film within the film he lists the various steps that the studio intrudes and shapes their product and how the work is diminished.  The common attitude is that it is the greed or taste of the powerful executives.  He says that it is the whole process that he is against.  In preproduction through to the release and the previews, the director and film making is distorted by traditional methods.  A few examples are the studio production team, the selection of material and the ego driven costs of budget. I found the movies succeeded in the various levels that I have always expected from Woody Allen and this direct criticism of the filming method was an added bonus. "}{"Title":"Not bad, but it's no Annie Hall","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the first Woody Allen movie I've seen, but I'm willing to bet it wasn't his best. I was glad I saw it, and it wasn't a waste of money, because it gave a glimpse into how movies were made, which was interesting. Also, the acting was good, and there was some slapstick comedy, as a result of Allen's hidden blindness. And there was definitely a plot, unlike some movies these days. Still, there was something missing, but I can't quite place what it is. I would recommend it, but it's no classic. "},{"Title":"Hollywoody","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Poor Woody Allen. He still feels that he has to churn out a picture every year whether or not it's any good. This one had promise, but it badly needed a polishing. The main plot points are repeated over and over for no reason except that it is Woody who is repeating them, making it seem like he has Alzheimer's or something. Also, there's an ongoing gag that has Woody (temporarily blinded) not able to know where a person is when he is talking to them. You see, he is pretending to be able to see in front of most of the characters because he will lose his job is he's found out. So he is always looking off to one side. This goes on many more times than is actually funny and it's not realistic. He should still be able to look at where someone's voice is coming from and face their general direction, I would think. It feels like Woody actually directed this wearing a blindfold because most of the 'sight gags' are poorly executed and Woody is not too swift at conveying physical humor. I did like his Oscar appearance last month though. He still has it in him to be funny. I also liked that they filmed some scenes at the Carlyle, where Woody plays clarinet on Mondays. Someone should have had to guts to challenge him on a few of his other choices, though. He's got to grow up! Yeah, I'm being rough. But you can take it, Woody. Woooody! No one's out to get you Mr. Paranoid. Let's see you out on the town a bit, huh? And someplace besides Elaine's, too, okay? Alriiiiight, there's the Woodman I know and love. Get outta here, Woody! "},{"Title":"Is this the end of a beautiful friendship?","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This offering isn't as bad as some of my colleagues characterize it but I would only recommend it to the diehard Woody Allen fan. No one does Woody's material as well as he and his material is really quite amusing. OK so the May-November relationships are getting a bit old and I have friend who won't patronize his movies on principle alone. But his personal life aside, this has some funny stuff. He rants, he obsesses, he stammers, but Woody still delivers. Wait, that's what he does!Tea Leoni is one of his strongest leads of late who stands up quite well to his challenge and succeeds. Debra Messing serves up the classic bimbo. (don't we get the joke?) George Hamilton was actually entertaining and well cast as the Hollywood stooge and Treat Williams was exceptional. Mark Rydell did his best to annoy us all as the agent who earns his ten percent by always selling his wares.So this may not be a film for all audiences nor is it his best. And maybe his theme is getting old. This is a send-up of the Hollywood film industry from one who consistently remained an outsider, filming from his New York studios in Astoria. So he's not biting the hand that feeds him. He's mooning the power brokers from other coast. And who else is so eminently qualified to do it?  "},{"Title":"new views on themes from Crimes and Misdemeanors","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The several comments on this film that are already on this site would have misled me. So my opinion may be valuable to some potential viewers.The obvious comparison is with Crimes and Misdemeanors, not Bullets Over Broadway or any of Allen's work from the last five years. As with C&M, this is a movie about the making of a movie. The driving conceit again is blindness. This time, Allen's character is going blind, rather than the rabbi. The ostracized point of view, then, no longer is the ethical one (for being idealistic), but the self-absorbed one (for being distant from certain human values). The romantic setup has the same structure Allen has the same role in both films, Tea Leoni takes the part of Mia Farrow, and Treat Williams takes the part of Alan Alda. In Hollywood Ending, both the comedy and the drama are less sophisticated. It works very well as a comedy, still. In terms of over-all quality, it *doesn't* compare with C&M, which is a masterpiece. Fans of the earlier film and of Allen in general will surely enjoy reflecting on the theme and story changes, which suggest that Allen has rethought his earlier work with new wisdom.Hollywood Ending is light, funny, and worth close attention. I like it more than Curse of the Jade Scorpion, Small Time Crooks, Celebrity, Deconstructing Harry, and Everyone Says I Love You. Sweet and Lowdown is still my favorite recent Allen film, though. "},{"Title":"Classic Woody Allen, but a bit disappointing....","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The premise seemed so interesting.  A blind director who has to direct the one movie that will save his career.  Except the people who helped pitch and trust him as director is his ex-wife and her new fiance who run the production company.First of all, why the hell is Woody Allen casting his significant others so young?  Does he think he is still 35?  No, he's in his 60's for christsake.  It was almost ok in Everybody says I Love You when he hooked up with Julia Roberts. But the guy looks so freaking old now, it seems really dumb for me to buy that his new girlfriend is 20-something, and his ex-wife is a vibrant 30-something.  Please!  Get over yourself!  It would have been much more appropriate to bring in Diane Keaton and Jennifer Tilly to play the roles.   Plus, I think they would have did better on stage.Tea Lioni is normally pretty punchy on stage gave a rather flat performance and Woody Allen's classic monologuing seemed forced.  In one section where he meets Lioni to talk about making the film, is this awful awful acting section on Allen's part where his gimmick is to talk really business and then slip into getting mad about the failed marriage.  He doesn't have the acting chops to pull it off.I didn't really get into the story and found myself offering a few laughs after Woody goes blind.  I think he weaves the characters in well.  Woody eventually uses the Chinese translator (brilliantly played by an Asian American actor) to be his eyes on the set when nobody is supposed to know he is blind.  What sucks is Tiffani Thiessen who's role as the lead actress in the movie Allen's character directs, and who only appears in one easily forgettable and insignificant scene, and basically is in the movie to show her boobs gets second billing in this movie over the translator!  How dumb is that?The Woody Allen-esque metaphors are overly evident, and I found myself being able to spot the lines or phrases that would tie back in.  Usually, he is much more subtle about his themes.Not as many laughs, but enough, not too much acting that shines.Worth a rental or a bargain matinee. "},{"Title":"a grown-up story by master funny-man allen","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the press seems down on woody allen, more for his off-screen hijinks than his movie-making skills.with that in mind, i would take the negative reviews of this movie with a grain of skepticism.it is a really enjoyable movie.  allen is hilarious, whipping out his standard schticks with a magician's ease his neuroses, his hypochondria, and his view of himself as being attractive to beautiful women.the movie tells a story that actually has a clear beginning, middle, and end.  there is biting satire of the movie industry, professional acting by everyone in the cast, and gorgeous cinematography. as a bonus, the movie leaves you with a laugh.  do yourself a favor, and go to see it.  "},{"Title":"Typical of a primo Woody Allen flick","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As all filmmakers go, some work is to be expected and some leaves you wondering what were they thinking. To all Woody Allen fans...this is what you'd expect from the genius that personifies what Mr. Allen has come to represent. It is the neurotic, psychotic, sexually challenged, comedic slapstick we've all come to truly enjoy from this Chaplinesque master of our lifetime. Congratulations Woody, you pulled it off...now go cuddle! "},{"Title":"Cinema U. Angst 701 (elective-no credit)","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"                               Hollywood Ending opened in Gotham yesterday and the Woody Allen faithful, me included, were there for the first                               screening. It's a very well-done, reasonably paced film set in but not dominated by Manhattan in the way many of                               Allen's films are.                              Val Waxman (Allen) and his ex-wife, Ellie (Tea Leoni) carry this film with the help of a more than adequate but not                               outstanding supporting cast. Ellie, a novice film executive living with her stereotyped big shot-producer, L.A. maven                               with a mansion, urges her guy (fiance) to hire a nearly washed up Waxman to direct a major new picture. Why she is                               so insistent makes little sense until the end but she gets her way and most of the story revolves around how Val, still                               consumed with anger at Ellie for leaving him, alternates between rational professionalism and inane outbursts.                              The big problem (and this isn't a spoiler, every advance story reported this) is that Allen goes suddenly blind before                               filming begins. His machinations, with the cooperation of Ellie, his agent and an N.Y.U. business student filling in as an                               interpreter for the Chinese cinematographer, consume most of the movie.                              So what do we have? Classic Allen in many respects since we get healthy(?) dollops of                              1) Hypochondria, 2) Neuroticism, 3) Inter-generational conflict, 4) A slight and short but inevitable and irrelevant                               peek at Jewish family life, 5) Involving bystanders in Val's angst, 6) Love of Manhattan and 7) Trashing of Tinseltown.                               (There's more but you get the idea.)                              Tea Leoni is fabulous as Allen's ex-wife. She's stunningly beautiful but, more importantly, her nuances and mood shifts                               are perfect. I almost believed she forgot she was on a set.                              As with some of Allen's more recent films, the parts are greater than the whole. His one-liners, not exactly topically                               unfamiliar, are always good in the sense of giving expected pleasure rather than hoped for revelation.                              How will Hollywood Ending play outside a few big metropolitan markets? We'll see. Devotees of Woody won't miss                               this one but I'm less sure that those not anxious for each new film by him will eagerly await his next movie.  "},{"Title":"Funny enough","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood Ending is about as good a film as any Woody Allen has put out the past several years. It's not great, but it's funny and inventive enough to work on its own terms. Allen's performance as a beleaguered director who is struck by hysterical blindness on the eve of production of his big comeback film is his best in years (Small Time Crooks comes close, but this tops it), and he definitely has a game cast to work with.I must single out for praise Barney Chang, as the business student acting as the Chinese cinematographer's translator, who is recruited into the conspiracy to keep Allen's blindness a secret. And Mark Webber -- Scooby in Storytelling -- also makes a memorable appearance late in the film.In closing, I would like to say a word to all those who constantly gripe about the fact that Allen's romantic interests are invariably half his age Get over it, or stop going to his films. No one's forcing you. "},{"Title":"Woody Does It Again","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen continues his string of laugh-out-loud comedies (Sweet and Lowdown, Small Time Crooks, and Curse of the Jade Scorpion), and reminds us that he's not only a great writer and director, but a very talented comic actor.  His man-to-man talk with Treat Williams near the end of the movie is a gem.Tea Leoni makes a great foil for Woody, and I hope to see her in some of his future films.  Tiffani Thiessen has a small role as a sexy starlet, and gives it a nicely understated touch.Bottom line This is funny stuff. "}{"Title":"Good bits but little movement","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie enough to encourage friends to see it if they have nothing better to do--and if they are real Woody Allen compleatist fans. I have a feeling most other folks will stay away--for good reason.  Allen provides familiar material, sporadically very funny, but even during the film I kept thinking about opportunities he had missed--not for conventional yuks but for developments that would have been truly unusual, characterization and plot twists that should have been there, but seemed lost to a general lack of energy.  The result--a bunch of ideas for funny scenes that are never realized. There was, for example, a step toward using music for good effect (as he has done so often before), but then it was dropped.  As usual, problems of communication at all levels provide the plot movement and much of the comedy, but there was precious little sense of exploration of the reasons for those failures.  On the whole, except for Treat Williams, the acting was not particularly effective (not unusual in Allen films); Tea Leoni seemed to hope she would be mistaken for Annette Bening; all the actors, of course, adopted (or were infected by) the rhythm and style of Allen's own speech, so almost all lines were delivered as though Allen were ventriloquizing.  Not a disaster, but not entirely fortunate, either.  Because there was a lot in the film about camerawork, the viewer was very aware of what was on the screen--and probably purposely, it was often hard to tell if we were looking at a real place or a painted set. This one is neither a hit or a miss--just a mid-range Allen film, worth seeing but probably not memorable for most folks. "},{"Title":"Back on Track","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood Ending is Woody Allen's best film since 1997's Deconstructing Harry. Here, he effortlessly combines a superb screenplay about an industry he's been at the pinnacle of for 30 years as well as a talented ensemble, especially Tea Leoni. But it's Woody's film the whole way as he gives his best comic performance since perhaps Mickey Sachs in Hannah and Her Sisters and indulges in a sumptuous production design and appropriate songs. If there's any criticism regarding Hollywood Ending it should be an inspiration for Allen he's successfully returned to comedy. Now it's time for him to return to the serious works that defined his filmography in the late 80s. This is a filmmaker still very much in tune with contemporary audiences. What a future drama may say might be more telling than anything anyone's done before. Hollywood Ending shows that Woody Allen is back on track as the pre-eminent filmmaker in American film today. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but largely watchable Allen...","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood Ending marks the end of Woody Allen's recent run of horrible films (Jade Scorpion, Small Time Crooks).  Woody plays Val Waxman, an aging film director, whose neurosis is piqued when he is offered to direct a film produced by his ex-wife (Tea Leoni).  He becomes psychosomatically blind and Allen's control of the physical slapstick that ensues is remarkably funny.  Yet, it is clear that the stakes are never going to be too high, that we're never going to diverge from tired Allen terrain (hypochondria, deflated ego, etc) and that he's going to get a (far too young) girl.Still, the fact that you can go to a theater thirty years after 'Sleeper' and get some legitimate laughs from the Woodster is impressive in itself.  Look for Barney Cheng's scene-stealing turn as a Chinese translator. "},{"Title":"a movie-makers movie","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen plays a caricature of himself - a neurotic, once-great director of arty films, fallen on hard times.He gets the chance to direct a big-budget, mainstream movie that is being produced by his ex-wife's (Tea Leoni) new fiancee.  It was hard to picture Leoni and Allen as a couple, though they tried by continually discussing past bedroom escapades.During the course of directing the movie-within-a-movie, he develops psychosomatic blindness, which he tries to hide from everyone.Woody is not really suited to this kind of bump-into-stuff slapstick, though he tries, eventually falling off a scaffolding.  Both Allen and Leoni play the I have control, but I don't know what's going on but from different ends.The movie wasn't slow, really, just poorly-paced.  It was filled with insider terminology and situations that movie-goers might not recognize as humorous setups.It was truly a 'movie-makers' movie, and the title was perfect. "},{"Title":"Not one of his better ones","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For Woody Allen fans - this is one of the last ones with him acting so it is worth a watch. Unfortunately it's one of his weaker pictures. There are some laugh out loud moments esp his scene with Tea Leoni in the bar. The hypochondria isn't that funny. The main premise is interesting psychosomatic blindness but wears thin after a while. The supporting cast is not well utilized. Everyone is made to talk in that Woody Allen way. Tiffany Thiessen has such a small part. George Hamilton just a few lines. The Chinese cameraman and interpreter are quite funny at first. But overall it still is worth a watch for the pleasant neat storyline and the laughs in between. Just isn't that funny after all. "},{"Title":"Not Allen's best, but entertaining and funny.","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen has his great movies, he has his good movies, he has his okay movies. Hollywood ending isn't his best, but it's his most underrated. I really don't see why it's so bad. I mean yeah the plot is a little ridiculous, but I was entertained and laughed a lot.Allen plays a has been movie director named Val Waxman. His ex-wife(Tea Leoni), who's fiancé is in the movie biz, offers him to direct a movie that she knows he'll do great with. But complications arrive. Val can't get over the fact that she left him for a dick movie producer. And things get even worse He goes blind.Alright, so the film isn't great. The plot isn't exactly original, and it is unfeasible. But the film made me laugh. I think it's entertaining to say the least. I am kind when it comes to Woody Allen films. Because he's a rare movie director that can still make funny and entertaining romantic comedies.One thing about his films that has always bothered me are his fantasies. Why in the world would people like Helena Bonham Carter, Debra Messing, or Mira Sorvino ever hook up with him? I prefer the Allen films without him. Like Match point and Vicky Cristina Barcelona, his masterpeices.I like all of his films. Some more than others. I just wish that he wasn't so vain. I like Allen. I think he's a pervert in real life but I like his movies. Same thing goes for Roman Polanski. Allen has done masterpeices. Hollywood ending isn't a masterpiece, but's a solid piece of entertainment.B+ "},{"Title":"A treat for Woody Allen fans","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Though I must admit, I was never an Allen fanatic myself; I still enjoyed 'Hollywood Ending'. Probably Allen's best film since 'Deconstructing Harry' at least, 'Hollywood Ending' is a clever zing directed at Hollywood's studios and film producers, in which Allen plays a characters very obviously based on himself, as he happily bites the hand that feeds him. Since Woody Allen's characters will always look like Woody Allen anyway, it's nice to see him in this very personal and earnest role. 'Hollywood Ending' is classic Woody Allen, a sure pleaser for fans and also for anyone who enjoys a funny, classy and intelligent comedy.Woody plays Val Waxman, an eccentric, hypochondriac has-been acclaimed film director, given one last chance to make his comeback; however, on the first day of the shooting, he develops psychosomatic blindness. That is the premise; the rest is terrific physical comedy, with subtle satirical and cynical humor, in the finest Allen tradition. Although all the actors are terrific - Tea Leoni as Val's ex, the wonderful Mark Rydell as his agent, and Mark Webber ('Storytelling') in one show-stopping scene as his son, Scumbag X (don't ask) - but Allen, admittedly not much of an actor himself, steals the show, making it the most Allen-ish movie since 'Harry', yet also one of his most accessible films. Recommended. "},{"Title":"A very average Allen film","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This fits right in the middle on a list ranking Woody Allen's movies... it's not that good, but not that bad, either.  Of course, Woody Allen fans such as myself will contend that an average or 'mediocre' Allen movie is better than an average or 'mediocre' film that isn't by him; personally, I love his directing style, acting, and scripting... so I have to say that this is worth seeing, even though it doesn't come close to being one of his best movies. "},{"Title":"Pure bliss from the master","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How people can complain and criticize Woody Allen after the anthology of wonderful films he has given us in his career is beyond me. Hollywood Ending is a hilarious, well-crafted satire on Hollywood and Allen himself. Full of metaphor and double-entendre in the classic Allen tradition, with a great script and inspired story. There is more going on here than meets the eye!People complain about Allen as an actor. I think he's more amusing and genuine than just about anyone out there. It's a formula that works and I wouldn't mind thirty more films just like this one. It's sure beats most of the crap coming out of Hollywood these days.People also complain Allen over-accentuates his blindness in the film, and he does. But it's just slapstick! Lighten up and enjoy it. The scene where he has to meet Treat Williams and can't find his way to the couch had me laughing out loud!Woody Allen is the greatest American social commentator since Samuel Clemens. Give credit where credit is due!  "},{"Title":"Outstanding melancholic vision of life","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The best work by Woody Allen. Why that title? Is a Hollywood Ending the way W.A. would like life to be, but he does not believe it can become true, or is in death he would find end to troubles? And, again, is the final relationship established with his son that allows him to recover from a puppet-like life? A wonderful, pitiless vision of himself and humanity. "}{"Title":"A lot of folks are missing the point","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've read a half-dozen scathing reviews of Hollywood Ending, andno one seems to get the point that this is all an elaborate, and verywitty, joke.It's a bad movie about making a bad movie. Get it? Technically, themovie has a dozen real screwups -- you get long shots of thebacks of talking actors' heads, two characters hold a conversationthat takes them off the frame, etc. All that is mirroring is what'sgoing on in the final product of The City That Never Sleeps, themovie within the movie.It has a rabbit-out-of-a-hat climax, another error. And it has a joyfuldenouement -- a Hollywood ending, get it?And despite all this stinker technical stuff, the movie is remarkablyfunny, even Marx Brothers funny in places (that scene in the barwith Leoni and Allen is priceless).I can understand the joke going over lots of people's heads, buthow come they're all movie reviewers and dumb joes like me cansee this in an instant?  "},{"Title":"another satisfying comedy from Woody Allen","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like Small Time Crooks and Curse of the Jade Scorpion, here is another warm, well-written, perfectly acted, PG-13 rated comedy from writer- director-actor Woody Allen. I think it's great that Allen is re-connecting with the general audience, showing that he can still be funny and that he belongs in the pantheon of all-time comic greats. This film in particular makes use of his brilliant physical comedy skills (he's often more of a verbal comic actor, like his hero Bob Hope). Once again, the casting is perfect--Mark Rydell as his devoted agent, Tea Leoni as his smart and sassy ex-wife, George Hamilton hilarious as a studio executive whose exact role in the production is unclear perhaps even to himself, Treat Williams (always great to see him again!!!!!) perfect as the self-absorbed and California-studied- casual studio head, and Allen himself evolving with his character's physical and emotion changes throughout the story. Unlike some critics I've read, I feel that the subplot about Allen's son--which doesn't come in until the film is 75% over--works quite well and shows once again what a traditional sentimentalist Mr. Allen must be at heart. This film opened in 700+ theatres and has the promotional push of Dreamworks behind it, so I was happy to see an almost-full theatre on the opening Friday night, although Allen's audience is clearly 35 and above. I paid full nighttime prices for three of us, and I must say, Mr. Allen, that you gave us our money's worth. The film is scheduled to be the opening selection at Cannes this year, and I hope it is a smashing success. If you've ever liked any of Woody Allen's films, do yourself a favor and see this charming and hilarious comedy. And it's fit for the whole family over 10, although it may be too talky for those younger. We're already waiting for the next film, Woody! "},{"Title":"Hollywood in the Woodian style!","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen is from the most well known filmmakers alive in our world today. His admirers are numerous all over the world. Yet I realized that his lovers are mostly more from outside the states rather than from inside. He is kinda underrated in his own country and I don't find a logical reason for that. I am Egyptian and I adore Woody's style in comedy and storytelling. He is from those rare guys whom we will discover them later after they pass on. I didn't watch all his movies yet but I intend to, especially his films of 80's and 90's. The man has a sense of classy, yet hilarious, comedy which you won't find in any other comedian. He can make a good interesting plot based on a cohesive idea and it's notable that he has hundreds of ideas in his mind. I couldn't believe he finishes a whole picture (written and directed by himself) every year! The feeling that Woody Allen had about being more appreciated overseas than in his own country I strongly sensed it in this film. In the film, an underrated disappointed director, whose girlfriend is kinda stupid, has been led to direct a film while being completely blind. As you may expect, this is very rich theme for many funny ideas and situation comedies that Woody manage to make use of every bit of it. In the same time he inserted a very human line in the plot for the reason of his psychological blindness (his relationship with his son) which I believe it's a real concern for Woody in his real life. The ending came Hollywoodian but with an Allen sense. I don't want to make spoilers because I really do want you to enjoy the film. We may talk afterward about weather the ending does somehow reflect Woody's bitterness towards his environment or may make a mockery from those who appreciate his art! "},{"Title":"A One-Joke and Simple Woody Allen's Comedy","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Val Waxman (Woody Allen) is a temperamental filmmaker, who has not directed a film for ten years. Although being and excellent director, the studios do not hire him, since he is also a troublemaker. His former wife Ellie (Téa Leoni) is dating Hal Jaeger (Treat Williams), a powerful executive of Galaxie, and she convinces him to invite Val for a US$ 60 millions project about New York. Val presently lives with Lori Fox (Debra Messing), but is still in love with Ellie, and becomes jealous with the situation. However, he knows that this work is his last chance in Hollywood and he accepts the challenge. On the first day of shooting, he develops a kind of psychosomatic blindness, and gets in serious troubles. This predictable and naive romantic comedy is based on one-joke only. I am a huge fan of Woody Allen, but I found this work below his average. Anyway it is a good entertainment. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) `Dirigindo no Escuro' (`Directing in the Dark', but also `Driving in the Dark'- `dirigindo' has double meaning in Portuguese)  "},{"Title":"Woody's worst film (I hope!)","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recently flipped through my long list of capsule reviews and saw I had foolishly called Shadows and Fog Woody Allen's worst film.  I made the same silly mistake with Deconstructing Harry.  I did the same thing again with Celebrity.  However, I feel relatively safe in proclaiming once and for all time that Hollywood Ending, a pathetically unfunny farce about the movie business, is the Woodman's worst film.  If only for his sake, I pray I won't be proven wrong again.  Woody Allen's decline has been astounding, but perhaps not without precedent.  Woody always said Bob Hope was one of his main influences, and I can certainly see parallels between his career and Bob Hope's career.  The funny Bob Hope of the 1940s and 1950s, who made wonderful films like My Favorite Blonde, slowly decayed into a sad self-parody by the 1960s while making duds like I'll Take Sweden.  I think that's what we're seeing here with Woody.  I remember when I anxiously looked forward to seeing the new Woody Allen film.  Now, when I bother to go, I find myself squirming embarrassingly in my seat.  Sad to say, but after Hollywood Ending, I doubt I will see another one of his films in the theater again.  Ironically, the main problem with Woody's recent films are the scripts.  They appear to be little more than unpolished and unrealized rough drafts.  The structure is sloppy.  The characters are unfocused.  And, most importantly, the gags simply aren't funny.  Also, he has to stop casting young beautiful women as his girlfriends.  It just makes him look pathetic.  Yo, Woody, word to the wise Don't you remember how Bob Hope used to look standing beside Brooke Shields?  She didn't make him look virile, she just made him look old.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious, beautiful, and evocative, it even made me say it has rich texture!!!","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood Ending has been criticized for not being quite developed enough to really portray movie making. Not as well as well as The Player, State and Main, or even The Producers. Okey-dokey, EXCEPT this movie isn't about movies. It's about relationships and careers and identities and lifespan concerns--- and trying to be a human with a bit of charm and grace.I was literally amazed at the rich texture this movie possesses (and I'm not even in film school!). I am serious--- my jaw dropped at the beauty, depth, and evocative environments Hollywood Ending put on the screen. Granted, that's not all a movie could be, but it is a LOT. Plus, I laughed throughout, and the audience guffawed and chuckled and laughed so hard they blew Coca-Cola out through their noses along with me.Refreshingly, Woody Allen didn't use a single one of his ensemble cast members, as good as they have been. And yet, all of this movie's cast nonetheless had the FEEL of actors and artists who had been collaborating with Woody Allen for decades. THAT'S good casting; and good directing (not to mention superb acting; duh...).This movie is hilarious, fun, and as I said earlier-- evocative. The incredible vibes were so thick, they practically dripped down the screen. I can't believe I actually said the words rich texture--- but you watch it, and you'll say the same thing. I loved it, and gave it a 10 out of 10. Thanks Woody! "},{"Title":"Showing Up; Eating Another Rat","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.My warmest memory of Woody is as Mr. Alien, the Fool in Godard's `King Lear.' Here was the acknowledged master of self-referential films (in the film theory world read reflexive) paying homage to the unacknowledged master. Woody's early films were intelligently engineered treatises on films about films, but as he aged he tried all sorts of different things. Many of these don't work he never stays in one corner these days well enough to master it. But no matter what, all of these have some deep awareness of films about filming. My personal favorite is `Sweet and Lowdown' which is as subtle as you can get in this regard.The problem with Woody is that he is a superb conceptualist, so as a writer he is among the few best we have. As a director, he's competent enough. As an actor, he ruins most things he's in if just from the mania-induced flailing. Often, he plays jokes on us by moving the focus to him the actor and some obvious device, but the film's nearly invisible soul is about a much richer harmonic on that theme.Here he distracts us by the simple, `Player' -like satire with a `Producer' -like ending. We are expected to leave the theater with the obviously prepackaged conclusion that the film we just saw was as bad as the film we saw being made. Look again. This is not what I consider successful art, but there is a method here one extended from Godard's notion of intelligent chaos.Debra Messing plays his redhaired girlfriend, with a role not unlike that of Molly Ringwald in `Lear.' The difference is that with Godard's project, no one could possibly be fooled into thinking they understand it. What Woody's done here is place us in the role of the French in `City that Never Speaks' -- we actually think we understand this. Its an elaborate joke, but that's what the man is all about these days, I think.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Woody loses all five senses","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Over the years, I've probably disliked almost as many Woody Allen movies as I've liked, but when I disliked one of his movies I still felt it was a generally well-made film that just went in a direction I didn't like.  The shocking thing about Hollywood Ending is, it's badly made.  Nothing is done with the film's reasonably clever potential and scenes that should have been funny simply fall apart.  The dialogue is clunky and the film appears to be made by someone who has no concept of the basic mechanics of film comedy.  There are some good lines scattered here and there but the movie is a truly toothless satire.  There is no chemistry at all between Woody and Tea, who is wasted and reveals none of the comic talent she has shown elsewhere, and it seems painfully clear that Woody was not the right mate for her or anyone.  Somehow Debra Messing manages to make more out of her little part than anyone else in the movie (except, perhaps, George Hamilton, who only gets about four lines but gets the most out of all four). There are other Allen films I've actually found less enjoyable to watch than Hollywood Ending, but none I've found as badly made.  I haven't seen the last couple of Allen films so I don't know if this marks the beginning of the end or if he was just having a bad year, but this is a truly bad movie. "},{"Title":"Another Woody Allen Movie","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There are certain Woody Allen movies that I don't fully appreciate- I don't like when he films in black and white and I'm not a big fan of slapstick comedy. The movies I prefer are the witty, dialogue rich, relationship based, contemporary feasts. I also prefer Allen to star in his own movies, mostly because when he doesn't, the lead character tends to be doing an imitation of Allen. This film, although I wouldn't give it a ten out of ten, certainly featured all of these ingredients.Once again Allen has surrounded himself with an amazing cast of actors who aren't nobodies, but aren't quite superstars. I don't know if he chooses actors based on chemistry, or if that is something that just comes together when one is working for him. Whatever it is, it is on full display throughout Hollywood Ending.Allen, as usual, plays a neurotic, under-appreciated, genius (called Val) with a knack for speech. He's a genuine artist who has been fired one too many times and is therefore stuck working on commercials and other lowbrow jobs. He has a live in girlfriend, an actress played by Debra Messing, who is pretty much just around because Val doesn't like to sleep alone. After getting fired from his last big picture, he is dumped by his then wife, Ellie (Tia Leoni) for the head of a studio, Hal (Treat Williams).As Val is stuck in Canada filming a commercial (that he eventually gets fired from), Ellie is in Hollywood with her new Hal, trying to get him to use Val to direct their newest film. Everyone in attendance agrees that Val is a great director, but no one wants to hire him because of his mental problems. Finally Ellie convinces to Hal to give Val a chance and things begin to look up.The night before filming is about to begin, Val makes an emergency call to Al (Mark Rydell) because he (Val) has suddenly gone blind. Trips to the doctor reveal that there is no brain tumor (as Val had obviously expected), nor are there problems with his eyes. Instead, as his analyst (of course, it is a Woody Allen movie) explains, it is completely psycho-somatic. Pressured by Al, Val decides to not tell anyone else and attempt to direct the movie anyway.Mayhem obviously ensues, as it's never easy to direct a movie without the use of the eyes. Al agrees to be Val's guide, but on the first day is told that he is not allowed to be on the set. Eventually, after many hilarious incidences, the movie gets made.Although the movie comes out horrible and Val is ultimately discovered, happiness does prevail. Life doesn't often have happy endings, so when one happens in a film it tends to feel forced or corny. Not with Woody Allen; maybe it's because so many of his movies do not end sad, or because even some of the films that end happy are also sad, but Mr. Allen sure knows how to make a happy ending out of a mess.Overall, there have been better Woody Allen films and there have been worse. I would rank Hollywood Ending somewhere near the top of his list though. It never ceases to amaze me how Allen has written and directed over 70 films, many of which have the same general plot, and yet he never seems to lose his freshness. "},{"Title":"No Hollywood Ending in Sight","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Woody's always good at mocking showbiz attitudes, and the first third of this movie-making farce features his funniest pure comedy writing since 1998's Celebrity. Unfortunately, as soon as the silly one-joke premise about psychosomatic blindness gets started, the audience is in for a steady decline in quality.Woody stumbling across chairs and falling down stages (not to mention him mistaking female breasts for cushions) wears thin after a while, more so as some scenes drag on for too long (no wonder considering the two hour running time) and a lame father-son-subplot is introduced far too late in the game. But some chuckles here and there help one to get through to the final punchline... or shall I say pointe? Watch Allen's Broadway Danny Rose and Bullets Over Broadway instead.5 out of 10 Chinese translators "}{"Title":"this looks like the work of a blind man","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Two times Oscar-winning American film director Val Waxman is not having the best time, he was hoping to get the job for a TV movie and if that wasn't bad enough for him well he wasn't hired and now Peter Bogdanovich (curios for me to hear the name Peter Bogdanovich again since I recently saw Rain of Madness. I have never seen one of his films but because Bogdanovich is mentioned in a truly hilarious dialog in Rain of Madness I keep his name in mind just to laugh again here when Val is told that Peter will direct the TV movie) has that job, not many opportunities for Val, he was doing a commercial but he was fired, in short Val Waxman is in decadence. We meet Val's beautiful and young girlfriend Lori (Debra Messing) and at one point she will be like or you take this job or else I leave you&#133;and I want a role in this movie. Certainly a promising project was presented to Val, well he wanted just any movie project but actually this project has in him a natural director choice, since the movie is located in New York and stuff, and is a $60 million commercial picture that can put an end to his problems. So why if everybody knows that the project can be Val's last chance we see Lori saying to Val that she will leave him if he doesn't go for the project? Well of course because Val doubts to go for the project, but why he doubts? Well simply because is his ex-wife Ellie (Téa Leoni) the one who suggested him for directing the movie and also because Ellie is now the girlfriend of film executive Hal (Treat Williams) who is financing the movie, yes just because of that! But of course Val will do it, he certainly need to but still at his first meet with Ellie and Hal after reading the script he will be like the original movie was stupid, this script has some holes in it plus doing jokes that are funny but not for the film executives, basically just showing us why nobody but Ellie wanted to work with him (incompetent psychotic, many outrageous demands, his best pictures were 10 years ago&#133;then he became real artiste), he is like I want to shot it in black and white to make the executives say forget it&#133;it's arty and to make that his agent Al (Mark Rydell) gets more and more nervous, they need the job! That's one of my favourite scenes but anyway Val will be hired with creative freedom and stuff. El Ciego (The Blind) is the title of this movie in my country, at one point a journalist that is following the making of Val's movie will be thinking something like this Val seems to not have idea of what he's doing, I wonder if he's one of those cinema geniuses&#133;like Fellini. This part of the filming is hilarious and is particularly funny since each time Val is talking with someone but not looking at him/her we are sort of tense because of Val, certainly especially when he is with Hal. But anyways the movie is completed, everything ends fine in a relative way or better everything is fine until the movie is showed to audiences! But the Hollywood ending will be there, the work of a blind man (both literally and figurative) is considered to be in France, where they talk French, simply the greatest American film in 50 years! Last December I saw Allen's most recent film to date, Vicky Cristina Barcelona, and I wrote in my IMDb comment of VCB this For me The Curse of the Jade Scorpion, Hollywood Ending and Scoop are extremely enjoyable little gems that I would like to watch again. When I wrote that I considered better this one than Scoop but now that I have seen both films for the second time I have to say I liked more Scoop. Anyway, Hollywood Ending is minor Allen, don't rush in order to see it, but I certainly like it. Next Allen film to re-watch The Curse of the Jade Scorpion. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Movie That Might Have Been Very Good","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have to disagree with the I hated it reviews from those who will never forgive Woody Allen for the Mia Farrow debacle, but in my opinion, others who claim that Hollywood Ending is another Woody Allen tour de force have also strayed from the mark. The movie started out with a great deal of promise, showcasing some of the ephemeral aspects of the movie biz. Tea Leoni was cute, intelligent, and funny as Val Waxman's ex wife, while Treat Williams as Hal Yeager, the studio head, and George Hamilton as his associate seemed well drawn, as well, especially their frank discussions about Val's has-been status. Further, Val's agent (not sure of the actor's name) delivered one of the flick's more notable performances. The movie built steadily through the scene in the restaurant where Val met with Tea after signing the deal and suddenly began berating her for leaving him to live with Hal. Many comedic possibilities that lay ahead remained to be explored when his attack of hysterical blindness sent the picture in an entirely unexpected direction. I didn't care for it at all the first time I saw it, but tolerated it much better upon a second viewing. I've decided that this is a pretty good movie, with some funny lines and situations, although I think the blindness routine took the story down a notch or two. "},{"Title":"Woody Hits the Bullseye Again...","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hollywood ENDING is one of Woody Allen's more realistic yet hysterically funny movies that takes a scathingly accurate look at the place Woody hates more than any other...Hollywood. As the Ultimate New Yorker, this film may seem a bit strange for Woody but he really makes it work. Woody plays Val Waxman, an Academy Award winning director who hasn't made a movie in 12 years. Thanks to his ex-wife (Tea Leoni), Val is given the opportunity to direct a big budget private eye film noir drama; however, he has so much anxiety about returning to work after so long, that the day before he begins shooting, he develops psychosomatic blindness and tries to shoot the film while blind, without anyone knowing. This premise is a wonderful set up for a lot of great gags and most are quite effective. Woody's incisive script takes the expected pot shots at Hollywood but stays within the framework of a very amusing story. Woody is surrounded by a strong cast including Debra Messing, very funny as Woody's current girlfriend who demands a role in the movie, Treat Williams as the cold-blooded studio exec who is also engaged to Leoni, director Mark Rydell as Woody's agent, George Hamilton in a surprisingly deft turn as a film exec, Tiffani Theissen as an oversexed starlet and fashion designer Isaac Mzahari as an obsessive set designer, who wants to re-build New York for the movie rather than film there. There are a lot of laughs to be had here in this very funny movie with a lovely and warm ending that will bring a smile to your face. "},{"Title":"Interesting but only to a die-hard WA fan","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was very much looking forward to seeing this film as I am huge Woody fan but primarily of his earlier work (Up to Crimes and Misdemeanors).I watched the film at a private cinema in the company of a group of film enthusiasts, not of whom were huge fans of WA's work. Their unanimous opinion was .....poor.I on the other hand could see what he was trying to do with this film. Much of it was autobiographical or at least explained his thinking behind film-making. It was beautifully shot and the cast was excellent. The jokes, however, were a little thin on the ground and his normal directing style of asking actors to practically ad-lib meant that the script felt flabby and poorly edited.For the WA fan this is an interesting film to see and you will get more out of it if you appreciated his working style and cinematic heritage. For anybody else, it would be seen as waste of time.A shame as the film had potential. "},{"Title":"Fun, funny, but predictable and unrealistic","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's a goofy movie not really meant to be taken seriously.  So don't. Just sit back and enjoy it.  It's a real good movie. I think the blind-director idea is real good, and the movie turned out real funny.B, 7/10 "},{"Title":"The End Of Hollywood","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen's latest movie called Hollywood Ending.For many years Woody Allen has fought against the typical movies you can see all the time in Hollywood-land and as well as the critics, also the audience mostly enjoyed his movies.For many of his films Allen fought and fought and made allot of knock-outs like the beautifully shot Annie Hall and the great Manhattan, all involved with neurotic people who look for the essence of life and love, sometimes Woody Allen's swing missed and himself got knock-out. Like Small Time Crooks.Lately many of his fans as well as critics are considering Allen's movies to be bad. He just isn't the same anymore.Hollywood Ending is about a movie-director, played by Woody Allen , and hasn't made a movie in  a decade. He used to be very successful and started to get an attitude, and after a while he didn't get a job. The only thing they let him make are commercials, and even with those he has problems with.But now, a movie-producer (Treat Williams) is looking for a  director and Allen's ex-wife (Tea Leoni) is trying to convince Treat Williams that Woody Allen is the perfect director for this movie. At first they don't want to hear about it, but after a while Treat Williams is been convinced and Woody Allen gets green light to start the film. But when he starts on the film, he suddenly loses his sight and has to make the movie without seeing anything.Many people can't wait to see the ending of Woody Allen, and hate him. Woody Allen knows this, and uses this in Hollywood Ending.  He considers to be the Jerry Lewis of directing. There is always France! Like I said, sometimes he tries to get a comeback as a fighter and some of the jokes work but not always. It's like Woody Allen fights around in the air and tries to hit something. And when he does hit, it sure isn't a knock-out.But we can only hope that he makes his comeback, and with this we have to give him chances to make more movies. Because nobody can keep on fighting without getting punched out. Not even the best! But if you want to see a good movie about filmmaking, watch 8 ½ , La Nuite Americaine, Living in Oblivion or State and Main, these movies are much better.  "},{"Title":"Not Woody's Best","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong.  I *love* Woody Allen and his films.  Seeing him nearly two years ago walking in Central Park is one of the highlights of my life. But Hollywood Ending is pretty thin.  The premise isn't bad, but the story just doesn't feel fully realized.  Woody should really concentrate on releasing one good movie once a year rather than two so-so films.There are a couple of laughs, and I especially liked the line about how Woody's favorite part of masturbation is the cuddling afterward. "},{"Title":"The Player","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  HOLLYWOOD ENDING (2002) **1/2 Woody Allen, Tea Leoni, Treat Williams, Mark Rydell, Debra Messing, Tiffani -Amber Thiessen, George Hamilton, Barney Cheng, Isaac Mizrahi.  Frequently funny yet one-note gimmick laden comedy with Allen in his familiar neurotic mode as a has-been filmmaker getting one last chance for a comeback when his ex-wife Leoni persuades her fiancée studio head Williams to take a risk in employing him with the only trouble being - unbeknownst to them - is his sudden hysterical blindness. Slapstick and one-liner zingers are a mixed bag here but are head-and-shoulders above the last several Allen outings.   "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie to see, especially with the director","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I caught this flick at a screening here in Austin which Woody Allen attended.  He didn't actually sit in during the screening but we had a great Q&A afterwards.  The films was good, better than i was expecting after reading the very few comments i could find.  It has a very entertaining plot which Allen claims is in no way Autobiographical but seems to me to be a bit.  The characters are all wonderful and fit together nicely.  The slapstick aspect for Allen turned out well and he was able to pull it off. As a side note during the q&a Mr. Allen had lights in his face so he couldnt make out the audience and he kept facing the wrong way, just like during the movie, it was laugh out loud funny.I defenently recommend this movie, although its not pertanent you see it in the theater. "},{"Title":"Pretty entertaining, but incredibly lazy","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let me start off by saying, I love Woody Allen. I know a lot of people hate him (mainly because they haven't seen his movies and hate him because of the scandal), but I consider the man a comedy genius. If this was the first Allen film you watched, you would say that my statement is complete bullshit. And I wouldn't blame you. But anyway, the reason why I gave the film 5/10 instead of anything lower, is mainly because I found it an entertaining comedy. Not particularly funny or creative or new or good, but entertaining at least. If nothing else, it's fascinating to watch how not creative and lazy it is. The director-is- blind gimmick is SO stretched out to the point where it becomes very, very annoying and insanely repetitive. There's a decent joke (or an effort on making a joke) that can work, but the over-all plot and characters are not interesting. The concept of the director being blind and trying to keep it secret is a decent scenario IF you have interesting characters. But, this hasn't. So most jokes fall flat, since it should be character comedy, but without the characters. It's like trying to make an omelet without eggs. The plot structure is horrible written, he goes blind and for the next 40 minutes he's going to struggle at set and... that's about it. Then, they realize the film is sh*t, other badly written sub-plots appear (and never get a satisfying conclusion), random sh*t happens and we get a good old fashioned (but boring!) Hollywood ending (pun intended). The problem is... MOST OF TE FILM IS THE SAME! About 40-45 minutes it's just him trying to hide his blindness and... Oh wait, AND NOTHING ELSE! It gets old and tired and oh so repetitive and dumb... It's a classic case of badly written comedy, but with SOME wit. But I do want to stress that's it's not a bad film. It's actually, terrible. Allen's character is so unbelievable self-indulgent I wanted to puke. Oh, HE'S the cliché difficult, artsy and eccentric director? Oh come on! Yeah, he's eccentric, but he isn't known for being difficult (for God's sake, he releases one film a year!) and I wouldn't call is films artsy (genius maybe, but not artsy PS. I hate using that word artsy). It's just Allen being self-indulgent and kind of jealous of directors who have that kind of reputation. Other actors were... alright, i guess.. Tea Leoni was good, she's just a very good comedic actress. Others were forgettable to say the least.It's pretty much a terrible film, but at least I had some fun watching it, since it was entertaining and interesting to see how Allen can f*ck up an already lazy idea. "}{"Title":"For People Who Think Blind Jokes Are the Height of Hilarity","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A pretty weak one-note joke film from Woody Allen during a period where he made a string of some of his most mediocre movies. It's not as bad as the following year's woeful Anything Else, perhaps the very worst film he's ever made, but it's close.Allen plays a Hollywood director who's struck with a case of temporary blindness. You can imagine the kinds of jokes that ensue. Allen's reliance on vaudevillian humor had stopped being charming by this point and was just anachronistic. But no worries -- two years later he would experience a creative reboot and give us Match Point, one of his best films and enough to erase movies like Hollywood Ending from our memories.Grade C- "},{"Title":"What happened to Woody Allen?","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen has made some of the best and funniest films of all time.  Then he made this movie.  While this is not a bad movie it is not as good as the Woody Allen of old.  I have not seen many of his movies recently, but films like The Curse of Jade Scorpion, Mighty Aphrodite, and Deconstructing Harry have been top-notch films.  This one is not very funny.  Allen's neurotic performance is completely lost on me this time, and the script seems mostly as though it is not even attempting to tell jokes.  As a Hollywood director on the skids and desperately in need of a comeback success comes in the form of his ex-wife and her fiancee.    The situation is complicated when he goes blind.  I will admit the ending was appropriately funny, but the movie is stale, and awkward.  I don't think Woody Allen is done, because his recent efforts like The Curse of Jade Scorpion and Mighty Aphrodite have been very good, but I do not know what happened here, Allen really lost his incredible wit on this film.  The one interesting piece of casting was George Hamilton, who mostly was quiet in this film.  I guess this is worth seeing if you are the most die-hard Woody Allen fan. "},{"Title":"Should be called Career Ending","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wait, I've seen this movie before. Nebbishy guy makes Hitler jokes, falls in love with a woman half his age and 6 inches taller than himself, and well...oh yeah, it's about the last decade of Allen movies. This one is like a very long SNL sketch, something that really shouldnt have been fleshed out into an entire movie. Woody is really running on fumes now; it's not that this is a BAD movie, it's just that its like eating plain tofu; perhaps it fills a need for a bit, but the whole experience, while not unpleasant, isn't really satisfying. "},{"Title":"Now, Woody, About that Ending...  (2/10)","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Real Woody Allen fans will rejoice with this film; at least they better, because nobody else will.  Decidedly, this one is for dyed-in-the-wool Woody fans only, and it goes far in demonstrating that even an inspired concept or idea does not necessarily a good movie make.  And whether you look at it entirely objectively or from a subjective viewpoint, `Hollywood Ending,' written, directed by and starring Woody Allen, is a clinker.  It's an interesting notion that came to fruition as a one-note, one-joke film that, ironically, is as bad as the film made within the film.  Maybe even worse.  On the positive side of the coin, the best thing that can be said about it is that it's not quite as dismal as the Woodman's misfire, `Celebrity,' inasmuch as no one here attempts a grating Woody Allen impersonation a la Kenneth Branagh, which was THE most unnerving aspect of THAT whole debacle. The story is fairly straightforward and simple  Legendary director Val Waxman (Allen) has fallen on hard times, mainly due to his own obstinate attitude, and he's been reduced to directing a television commercial on location in Canada.  He finds a champion, however, in his ex-wife, Ellie (Tea Leoni), now engaged to Galaxie Studios boss, Hal (Treat Williams), to whom she pitches Val as the perfect director for their latest project.  After much to-do and some initial skepticism (based on his history with Val), Hal gives in and gives the green light to hire Val. When Val gets the news he is by turns surprised and elated; so much so, that just as they are starting production on the picture, Val is struck with psychosomatic blindness, which could possibly (?) impede his ability to direct a motion picture.  But this is the chance for a comeback that Val has been waiting for, so he dares not reveal his problem, especially to Hal.  And so, after necessarily confiding his dilemma to a carefully selected couple of people, Val goes on with a little help from his friends.  Now, if he can only keep Hal away from the dailies, he has a chance to finish the film; the film he was `destined' to make.Without question, this film definitely has it's moments, and some of them are actually hilarious; but it's simply not enough to sustain interest or make this one memorable in any way.  As previously stated, the concept is good; one may even say inspired.  But the execution goes devastatingly awry.  The dialogue is well written (which combined with the right visuals inspires the laughs), but the story is filled with Hollywood `in' jokes, most of which will mean little, if anything to an unsuspecting audience.  And in most cases, even if you do `get' it, it's just not that funny.  Add to that the fact that this is arguably the `shallowest' film Allen has ever made, and you begin to realize why this one just doesn't resonate.  The intelligence, depth and insights that define most of Allen's films are inexplicably absent here, and the impact on the final product is quite noticeable.  And it just goes to show that even a filmmaker like Woody Allen, who is often brilliant and sometimes genius, can occasionally miss the mark.  And, as is the case here, miss it altogether.As an actor, Woody Allen has created some characters who are likable to a degree, but never endearing; he can be interesting, but his natural lack of charisma renders him less than riveting; he can even be sympathetic, but it's rare.  As Val, he is none of the above, which is one of the inherent problems with this movie.  Val is a guy you are hard put to tolerate, let alone like, and as such you just won't care much one way or another if he succeeds or not.  Most likely, you'll be hoping he winds back up in Canada, freezing along with his insecurities and incorrigible attitude.  Perhaps the time has come for Allen to rethink the role he should play in his own films.  In `Bullets Over Broadway,' he successfully opted to cast John Cusack in the `Woody' part, and it seemed that he had turned some kind of artistic corner with regards to his own ego; but playing Val himself is a big case of backsliding.  Even Paul Newman realizes he isn't `Hud' anymore; it's time Woody realized that he isn't...well...whatever he was at one time.The beautiful and talented Tea Leoni gives a worthy performance as Ellie-- in fact, one could say her participation is the highlight of the film.  It's tough to buy Leoni and Allen as a couple, though; It's just hard to accept that Val and Ellie were ever married.  She seems much more suited to a David Duchovny type.  For all her efforts, even suspending disbelief doesn't make the relationship seem viable, which, of course, has an impact on the film's credibility.Still, it's even harder to believe Debra Messing as Lori, Val's `current' girlfriend.  Her performance is convincing, but the relationship is just too questionable.  And this isn't judging a book by it's cover; looks aside, with what we know about Val, you have to wonder what could possibly attract Lori to him.  The angle that as an aspiring actor she's using him to get her foot in the door doesn't hold water, inasmuch as he's on the way down and there is a plethora of others in positions of power who would be ready and able to add the willing Lori to their personal cast of characters.  It simply doesn't jibe with the reality of the situation.The supporting cast includes Bob Dorian (Galaxie Exec.), Mark Rydell (Al), Yu Lu (Cameraman), Barney Cheng (Translator), Isaac Mizrahi (Elio), Marian Seldes (Alexandra) and George Hamilton (Ed).  To those who subjectively translate anything Woody Allen does to perfection, `Hollywood Ending' will be a satisfying experience.  Those who fall outside of that parameter, however, will be disappointed.  Either way, it's the magic of the movies.  2/10.       "},{"Title":"It's a luck we have French","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At the end of that movie, I thought that maybe Woody Allen had had an argument with a French person and that it was his way to be forgiven...But then, I thought exactly the opposite... Maybe Woody Allen wanted to blame the French for something... It basically says that French don't have a good opinion on movies! -HA!Like in Deconstructing Harry, a vision problem, though here he really becomes blind...In one word, that movie was AVERAGE "},{"Title":"Not Bad, which doesn't quite make it good either...","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, this is indeed a mixed bag. It opens with a great premise though. A Director, who has no other option but to direct a movie, while being blind. It indeed sounds good. It partially is. But to begin with, it has no freshness and this is very bad for Allen, from whom i always expect that.  It feels boring after a while, because it keeps making the same jokes, you propable have seen in other Woody Allen features and it almost repeats its self as a movie after a while. And that is to begin with. Then you feel like this should have been a short movie. Because 1hour and 47 minutes, is too long for such a repetition like this.There are a few nice jokes, but you propably know their coming long before they are even said. But some of them still manage to squeeze a few laughs. And that is when you understand Allen's genius, also you have the wonderful cinematography which is truly amazing--if you even care--. There are good performances here, from most of the cast. Treat Williams is quite nice, not good. And that's that, no Marlon Brando here. You got Woody, who is always a pleasure to watch, even when you know what he is about to say. And the direction is solid but lacks the quirkiness of any greater moments, from Annie Hall, to Husband and Wives to Zelig. That's the same lacking quality from the script. There are also many beautiful people in Allen's movie. As always he is among goergous women and handsome men. With him being the exception, as always!In a nutshell, or rather two. This movie is not bad. It is interesting. But you gotta go past it, if you want to see a good Woody Allen movie.**out of*****. And thanks for the reading. "},{"Title":"Without deepness or humor, Woody Allen is really boring","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I used to enjoy all films by Woody Allen. Not anymore, surely. In the movies, the images are what really count, but his films have always a lot of talking, intense dialogues. To be interesting, those must have a meaning, deepness or humor. Here neither is present.  At the end of the film, W. Allen gives his thanks to the cine goers of France for having loved his films. Will it be still the case with Hollywood Ending? In this wreck, there is a surprise called Téa Leoni, who deserves to appear more in the screen.   "},{"Title":"Minor Woody Allen comedy wasting a great premise","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You can't go on doing one film a year for thirty years as ultimate NY auteur Woody Allen has and expect every single one of them to be brilliant. However, it's beginning to grate that since Everyone Says I Love You, the master of the acerbic one-liner hasn't really come up with a decent film, and Hollywood Ending is no exception. Frustratingly, it's also one of his most intriguing and exciting premises in years, being the story of a difficult filmmaker (played by Allen with the emphasis on cult) attempting his big-screen comeback after a ten-year absence, who goes psychosomatically blind on the eve of production and, knowing that there will be no third chance for him if he blows it, decides to fly it literally blind. Problem is, the film's producer is ex-wife Téa Leoni, who managed to sell him to her current beau Treat Williams, also the studio head, against everyone's better judgment... The concepts of commerce vs. artistry are ideally suited to Allen's wisecracks, particularly because his own career is proof positive that they can be reconciled. And the film is mercifully free of the sour grapes that soiled Celebrity, as well as opening some interesting doors with the concept of an Allen character actually taking some steps for self-improvement and stop being the whiny neurotic we know him to be. But the metaphor of blindness is heavy-handed and the script is below par the one-liners aren't as funny as they used to be, the plot is sketched by numbers and most of the situations sound tired and lazy, without even the saving grace of great performances. Allen can do (and has done) much better, and if you're familiar with his body of work Hollywood Ending is likely to leave you feeling very disappointed. "},{"Title":"Woody, switch it up!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another uninventive movie from Woody Allen.  Same thing.  Same  character.   Yes, there are a few laughs.  But, for the most part, you're watching a recycled comedian.   I don't know about Woody, my friends.  I'm getting scared.  "},{"Title":"One Good Laugh","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There's one good laugh in this movie  the scene where Woody falls.  He falls and CRASHES.  I rewound it and watched it about fives times and laughed until I cried every time.  And it happens in the background of the scene.  So if you're not paying attention to the background you'll miss it.  The rest of the movie is completely forgettable.  I can't recommend the movie, but for the one really good laugh, I'll give it a 6 out 10 instead or a 4 or 5, if that means anything.  Rent Decontructing Harry instead. "}{"Title":"I still enjoyed this little farce!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I know Hollywood Ending is a far cry from Woody at his best -- or even his mediocre stuff, for that matter. Yet reluctantly, I still enjoyed this little farce. Even the shadow of the Woody of old is far better than most of the current releases at your local video store. That said, I hate seeing Allen reduced to just coasting on his past glories, especially since he is still capable of great things. I wish someone would convince him to move himself (the actor, not the writer) into the supporting cast, and let new talent (such as Penn or Cusack as he's used in the past) take over his persona as the central character. And like everyone else in the world, I think he needs to get over the young girlfriend thing. It's starting to look like a bad joke. (5/10)  "},{"Title":"a bit disappointing","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As the title implies, the film's conclusion is utterly uninspired and thoughtlessly predictable. Would have been nice to see another twist (warning, small spoiler ahead...); for example, what if the Chinese student/translator actually ended up directing the film, and it was a masterpiece?? Mayhem could ensue from there! Just one of many ideas that Allen left on the table for this one.My biggest observation after viewing is that I think it's time, Mr. Allen, to consider using leading ladies that are at least _close_ to your age. The relationship between Allen's character and Tea Leoni is simply not believable, and there is no longer humor (as in some of Allen's other pictures) in the juxtaposition of the schlep and the bombshell being in a relationship together. What was once funny now seems patently vain. In truth, there are many leading ladies in Hollywood who are close to Allen's age that are talented, funny, and yes, attractive; many of them, I'm sure, would love to be cast in his movie. For example, Diane Wiest was terrific in Bullets Over Broadway; and Tracy Ulman (still a lot younger than Allen) was a much more believable spoil for Allen in Small Time Crooks.Looks like Sweet and Lowdown was the swansong for Allen's career. He should have stopped after that one. Either that, or he needs to cast Sean Penn in all of his movies from now on. Maybe he's the only actor around right now who can resist the temptation to woodie-ize his character. "},{"Title":"It's time for Woody to retire","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love Woody Allen. He used to write and direct great films. It's all over.This is one of those films where you keep waiting for it to get going or, perhaps, just get better. It never happens!Tea Leoni is a delight to watch, but this movie will put you to sleep. "},{"Title":"Where, oh where, is the Woody of old?","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you're an admirer of Woody Allen, you'll want to see this film, just as you'll want to see the next one, and the one after that. It really doesn't matter that Hollywood Ending isn't very good, not at least in comparison to Woody's great films of yesteryear. (No Crimes And Misdemeanors, this.) Arguably, Hollywood Ending is less a film than a retrospective tribute to a great writer/director/actor/comic who doesn't make the kind of magic he used to make. Think of Muhammad Ali in his later fights no longer the champion, but showing occasional flashes of brilliance and holding out the faint, but eternal, hope that he would somehow recapture his glory days and take the guy out in the eleventh with dazzling footwork and a snappy combination. It doesn't happen in Hollywood Ending, but it's still fun to watch and hope.Woody isn't the Woody of old, and that's partly because he is old, or at least older. It's hard to imagine that Val Waxman (Woody) was ever married to Ellie (Téa Leoni), just as it was hard to imagine him married to, or sleeping with, all those other gorgeous actresses with whom he co-starred in all those other, better, films. At the same time, though, it's comforting and encouraging to think that he could have. It gives faint hope to all the rest of us little guys who don't look anything like Brad Pitt or Ben Affleck. The story is slight, but interesting. Val, the faltering directing genius has one last shot at filmic fame and glory. His ex-wife Ellie talks her new beau and studio head Hal (Treat Williams) into hiring Val to direct his new film. Val balks but he's talked into the job by his agent Al (Mark Rydell). Surely the names are part of a running joke when's the last time you saw a film where three of the leads were named Val, Hal and Al? Val takes on the job and soon lapses into psychosomatic blindness, but directs the film anyway. It's a disaster in progress, of course, but Hollywood Ending winds up with an in-joke, one of many in the film American audiences and critics trash the film for the disaster it is, but the French, God bless them, love it and declare Hal to be a true genius. All is saved and Val has a brilliant new career, and financing, awaiting him in Europe. (Shades of Jerry Lewis.) And he even gets his girl back. Of course, he does.With the possible exception of Téa Leoni, no-one in the film seems seriously to be trying to play a role. Everyone seems just happy to be in a Woody Allen film, speaking their lines competently, but with a kind of wink and nudge towards the audience that no-one should take any of this seriously. But it doesn't really matter. Everyone seems to have fun, and Val's neurotic rants are often very funny. The (small) audience in the theatre where I watched the film had fun too. We all mostly laughed in all the right places, except for one or two in-jokes that no-one understood. One in-joke that brought a roar of approval was the reference to Haley Joel Osment's Lifetime Achievement Award, an obvious reference to the series of slights visited upon Woody over the years by the mob that awards, and often mis-awards, the annual Oscars.To conclude, a regional reference. I'm a Canadian, living in Ottawa. Hollywood Ending has two short sequences that actually mention Canada, although it's apparent that Woody knows little or nothing about the country. (When a prominent Canadian film critic asked Woody if the name of his character Val Waxman was intended as a nod of respect in the direction of the late Al Waxman, one of Canada's best-known actors - Americans might remember him from the Cagney and Lacey series - Woody admitted he had never heard of him.) For Woody, apparently, Canada is the land of eternal snows (even in mid-summer), overrun by moose, where most people make their livings harvesting furs from wildlife. It should have been insulting - Canadians have long been tired of this image from south of the border - but somehow it wasn't. Everyone in the theatre laughed at the lines. I guess, if one is a Woody Allen admirer, one can forgive a lot. And just now, until Woody regains his form, one has to. "},{"Title":"I go to see all of Allen's movies, even the bad ones. For anyone who doesn't do that, pass this one up.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood director Val Waxman (Woody Allen) has lost both his wife (Téa Leoni) and his touch behind the camera. He is up in snowbound Canada shooting a commercial. Leoni convinces her new fiance (Treat Williams), who heads a major studio, that the new script he has, a straight-forward story with a New York setting, is just up Allen's alley. Allen gets the gig, but on the day he is about to start shooting, he wakes up with psychosomatic blindness.Blindness is not a bad central metaphor in a story about a film director, but as a matrix of jokes, it has its drawbacks. Absolutely no one on this planet, including each and every blind person, could ever suspend their disbelief enough to accept that a director could complete a whole film while blind and while convincing almost everyone involved that he is not blind.But then, this is a farce. So, taken at farce value, the script and performances had better be really, really funny. Hollywood Ending  misses both really's and nearly all the funny. There are a few decent one-liners but not nearly enough, and without the brilliant one-liners, Allen's hilariously neurotic persona becomes merely fidgety&#150;and pretty damn irritating. Worse, the dialogue is left with mere talkiness. No, it's not even talky&#150;it's chattery. An early scene between Allen and Leoni in a restaurant is painful to endure. You can see what Allen is aiming at, but he never even comes close. It was awful.Aside from the blindness, the only other funny concept (aside from the unintentionally funny notion of Allen's having a live-in girlfriend (Debra Messing) who's young enough to be his step-daughter) is that he hires a Chinese cinematographer who has done most of his work with the Red Army and speaks not a word of English. That necessitates a translator (Barney Cheng), who fits nicely into the plot and contributes a few laughs, but otherwise nothing at all is made of the cinematographer. Somehow, I've got to believe there's a joke or two in there somewhere when a blind director is working with a Red Army cinematographer who speaks only Chinese.Perhaps the best joke comes right at the end, and it has a nice logical twist to it if you interpret Hollywood Ending in more than one way.Not only is the script not funny, it is a bit clumsy. A sub-plot with Allen's son by his first marriage, which ties in with his blindness, is not introduced until, oh, maybe 3/4 of the way into the movie. Ok, maybe the son is mentioned a little earlier, but there's no indication at that time that it's more than a passing attempt at a little joke.Well-photographed and a good job by Leoni. I go to see all of Allen's movies, even the bad ones. For anyone who doesn't do that, pass this one up. "},{"Title":"Best comedy since Bullets, worst love story since...","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"      You remember the one about the novice playwright whose show was saved by the rewrites of his lead's bodyguard?  That was a funny movie, and it worked because it had three things great lines, great performances, and the absence of Woody Allen in a love story.  The love story in Bullets was on the side, and in fact it was the production of the movie that led John Cusack to make the move back to his wife.         I liked the idea similarly here of the story of a self-possessed visionary who ends up going blind and depending on his agent and a Chinese business major to make his art for him.  After all, one of the points the movie keeps making is that Hollywood has turned to commerce and not art why not make the most out of the ironic idea that a fish-out-of-water business major becomes the saving grace of the artist?          For the first half, the movie lifts off, with some on-set moments when the entire audience I saw this with Virginia was laughing their asses off.  Mark Rydell and promising comic newcomer Barney Cheng walk a totally blind Allen off his own set, with Rydell telling Cheng, Tomorrow morning, same drill! This is great comedy.       Now why did Allen have to ruin it with an oddly flat love story?  Don't get me wrong- Tea Leoni does fine, but their relationship dilutes what is otherwise one of Allen's most brilliant conceits and potentially funny showbiz movie since the Producers.  (Also, who the hell was shaving Woody the whole time?  Why was this part never revealed?  There's so much more you could have done with this!)       So, overall, Hollywood Ending is a fun night out, but nothing to write home about.  Bullets Over Broadway reveals what this movie could have been with the right touches.  So, Woody, your slapstick here is wonderful, but from now on -- stay on the other side of the camera!  "},{"Title":"Good premise that falls short","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have liked a few Allen films, and admired parts of many more, both serious and comical. There is obviously a lot of talent and ideas in them, but I can't help but wonder why so few of his movies are good as a whole work. This is a great example.The premise of a director going suddenly blind from psychological stresses just as he is about to make his biggest picture is full of possibilities, but too many of the scenes are built around arguments by small-minded people instead of developing humorous or visual situations of any length. We are told that the direction and the dailies of the film being created are chaotic and make no sense, but we are never shown any examples. Instead, we are merely told that the shooting of the movie proceeds week after week with everyone believing a viable movie is being made, even though the cameraman is being driven mad by the poor direction. Well, which is it? We don't get a taste of either the absurdity or the viability of the process to buy into the idea or laugh about it.Instead, a lot of time is spent with woody Allen's character refuting one gorgeous live-in partner to reminisce and argue with a beautiful ex-wife while rejecting the advances of the movie's young buxom starlet. In other words, Allen's alter-ego is on display yet again with women averaging about half his age. All the while Allen's extremely nervous gesturing and pleading for help as he gropes around blindly makes him look not only very old, but also dim-witted, and certainly not attractive enough to garner this attention from women. What could be funny is played up to such an annoying extent that I lost sympathy and patience for his situation.That said, there are just enough scenes with humor and good acting (Hack, the director's agent is particularly well cast) that I did chuckle from time to time, the sets, scenes, lighting and the colors are all appealing. It was not in general, a painful experience, just not a very funny or meaningful one either. "},{"Title":"Truly pathetic","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I wish Allen's bad acting was the only thing wrong with this movie-- the writing is tired and predictable and the couple of funny bits would be better be presented in a two minute Saturday Night Live skit.  It tries way too hard to be absurd, but ends up merely dumb.  His humor, and in fact, apparently his entire moviemaking technique here has become painfully formulaic.  This is a movie only his mother could love... "},{"Title":"Tea Leoni was actually good","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the first time Tea Leoni did not annoy me in a movie. This movie was OK, but it was 20 minutes too long.  And two of Woody Allen's more recent movie, Small Time Crooks and Curse of the Jade Scorpion, were better and funnier.  This film had no laugh out loud moments, but I would consider it funnier than a lot of comedies now days.  At least the idea of a blind director is somewhat amusing.  And I liked the translator guy.FINAL VERDICT  I wouldn't rush out to see this, but it isn't bad.  All of Woody Allen's movies are sort of alike, so if you like his movies, then I would recommend this. "},{"Title":"The Woodisms are getting old","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Allen (who else?) plays a highly neurotic, slumming film director who goes psychosomatically blind, yet fakes it so he won't get fired.  A very, very obvious one joke film that's a basic potshot at today's very mechanical Hollywood films.  It's done though in such a linear fashion that it's pretty much made mute before it even begins.You wait and sit through some very long slow scenes for that big payoff, but it never comes.  Instead you get a gimmick for a ending that's more cliched than funny. Hamilton has pretty much all the funny lines and he's out after the first half.  The rest of the film is actionless and routine.  There's even a few scenes that seem shockingly stilted and meaningless.  In many ways this is the type of film that Woody seems to be criticizing.  It is unoriginal, one dimensional, and completely lacking in vision.It's almost like this is not the same man who brought us BANANAS, SLEEPER, or INTERIORS.  Those films were loaded with sharp, crisp dialogue, cutting edge humor, and a maverick style.  Outside of some surprisingly numerous close up shots of his bald spot, this has nothing noteworthy or inventive to it. It's almost like a exact replica of all of his post 1985 comedies only with a slightly altered story line.  You have the 1930's music, sophisticated garden party guests who talk fluently about Fellini and Hitchcock films, and the whole N.Y. vs L.A. thing. We're not even mentioning his long neurotic rantings either.  Sure this was once funny, but now they are becoming tiring and over used. Even the blind gags seems like stuff stolen from a old vaudeville routine.  Another problem is his casting.  Leoni does a competent job as his ex-wife, but there is no chemistry there and it just doesn't seem real. Only in Woody's fantasies would a beautiful, young, smart, sexy, and well adjusted women fall for a schmuck like Woody.  (Same for that young hardbodied live in girlfriend of his.) What this thing really needs is a actress who his a female version of Woody.  One whose dorky looks, quirks, and behavior would match his own.  What better person than Louise Lasser who was at one time actually married to Woody. Just seeing these true life oddballs going through the paces could make this bland script actually seem funny.Woody has always been know to say that if a audience doesn't like his stuff it's because a artist is always ahead of his followers and they just need to catch up.  Well if they are to 'catch up' then they actually need something to 'catch' and this vapid thing has nothing.Former American Movie Classics host Bob Dorian can be seen in a bit part. "}{"Title":"Not one of Woody's best","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was very disappointed in this new Woody Allen comedy'. I say comedy because it was meant to be funny, suppose to be funny, and everyone acted like it was suppose to be funny, but it just wasn't that funny. When the whole film's tone changes to a drama by the third act, it doesn't work at all (unlike Crimes and Misdemeniors, his best film) and we are left watching a dull movie. Woody always makes me laugh and he does in this but his one liners aren't as quick or witty. Curse of the Jade Scorpion, his last film, was much better. Better luck next year.  "},{"Title":"Sad","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It gives me no pleasure to write this.  I love Woody Allen's films, except that I didn't much care for A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy, Shadows and Fog, and Celebrity.  But they were all more artful and better than his recent two films, Curse of the Jade Scorpion and THIS.CotJS was the worst.  This one had at least one line that made me laughWould you recommend this movie to a friend? Only if I was friendly with Hitler.Unfortunately, that line also describes my reaction to the film.  It is so badly made, with scenes that feel as if the actors are fumbling to remember their lines correctly.  Woody in particular seems to have been reduced to stammering on mindlessly as if the mere act of rambling will be funny. This guy should know better.  When he (SPOILER!) eventually regains his sight, all he can do is repeat the phrases I can see! and You're so beautiful! over and over in between stammering.  Previously, a weak Allen effort, like Shadows and Fog, would still contain many things to savor.  Certainly, there would be funny lines.  This one had many opportunities for humor, but it just feels like such a mess.  It feels sloppy, and lazy, and aimless.  And that just breaks my heart.  I want him to make films that are better than this.  Films that try harder, and have more to say.  Woody's attempts to act blind are absurd without being funny-- he can hear, but the way he plays it, he can't even tell which direction he should face when someone talks to him.  Just Awful.   "},{"Title":"Hollywood treif!!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen, A.M., (after Mia) has done it again!. He has cast himself as the romantic hero of this misconceived and tedious film. Mr. Allen's next effort, we hope, will bring his old self with the very talented group of actors we saw him do his best screen work. People like Diane Wiest, Diane Keaton, Judy Davis, Michael Caine, Michael Murphy, Tony Roberts, et al, since we don't think he could get Mia Farrow to agree to take any role in his films, any time soon!At any rate, this film is a mess. Even Woody's best lines don't have the spark from other movies. The character played by Tea Leoni can only exist in Mr. Allen's mind. There is practically no chemistry between her and Woody's character. Mark Rydell, Treat Williams and George Hamilton have nothing to play because the whole picture is Woody doing himself all over again. Why bother to cast the great Marian Seldes if she wasn't given anything to do, as well as the art director role for Isaac Mizrahi? Both were great, but they're totally wasted in parts that have promise, but are never developed. Even the whole film making process with the blindness gag running thin goes flat after a while. The only irony of the film is how, at the end, Mr. Allen's director, gets the recognition of the French and he is ascended to the same stature of Jerry Lewis and Sharon Stone? Woody, give us a break!I know it's very easy to be critical without giving Mr. Allen credit for so many hours of pleasure at the movies, but it just hurt to see such a great talent going to waste. Obviously, Mr. Allen has to take a look at his recent films, take a chill pill and maybe get a Sean Penn, or a John Cussak, or Edward Norton for his new venture, one in which he will get back to his former glory. In the meantime, we have to eat his treif!  "},{"Title":"Woody's longest film to date & I couldn't watch the whole thing.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In Hollywood Ending a  promising premise became increasingly tedious until I just couldn't care. Not since 1987-1989 has Woody Allen put together a string of three duds. Those films  (September, Another Woman, New York Stories) were his final attempts at no laugh, serious films and a segment of a film wherein  Coppola and Scorsese also came out none too well either. But he followed those three films up with up with Crimes and Misdemeanors, one of his truly great films. So perhaps there is hope. But that hope, for me, is fading. His last three films, Small Time Crooks, Curse of the Jade Scorpion, and now this, Hollywood Ending, aren't experiments or near-misses. Given the talent involved in this trio, these are failures on a colossal scale.Woody, George Hamilton, Tea Leoni, Mark Rydell, Treat Williams make up the kind of a cast that in Crimes and Misdemeanors or Deconstructing Harry (to name just two) made cinematic magic. But here they work to no effect. Or worse, they work to an irritating effect. Leoni's yammering put me in mind of Diane Keaton's  character in Manhattan Murder Mystery. It is just irritating. Hamilton is amusing but what does his character represent? He's wasted. Treat Williams is the best thing in this film, but we're supposed to (I think) see him as a bad guy. This is Mr. Allen's longest film to date and it all seemed to go on interminably. I finally got up and left. I don't leave too many films. I've never left a Woody Allen film. He was my cinematic hero. But I left Hollywood Ending because it had become tedious, it wasn't funny, it was overly long, and just for the principle of the thing. I can only hope Woody finds his way again.   "},{"Title":"Rather dull","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I expect an intelligent and funny film whenever I choose something directed by Woody Allen, but this time I was unpleasantly surprised. The film lacks the originality of most of his previous scripts and I was hardly ever amused by the dialogue (My favorite lines being, I quit. Why? I was fired!). The acting was o.k. but Mr. Allen's habit of surrounding himself with women so younger to him this time looked rather distasteful than anything else. The film would have been great if it was much shorter than hour and a half.    "},{"Title":"I walked out...it was that bad","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen films are usually a treat.  This one I watched in a darkened theater all by myself and I walked out.  It was just not funny, not entertaining and a total waste of film.  I kept wondering if those gathered to star in this boring movie hoped they might win an oscar or something.  Woody is blind in the story at one point and I have read read reviews where they make light of this.  Woody, retire gracefully now.  You just dont make good movies anymore.  I don't think you see this and you have tripped up horribly here.  I honestly cant say one good thing about this film except that it was brightly lit, more so than any of your other films, most of which I've loved. "},{"Title":"Possibly the WORST movie ever made","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How can I say that? Surely, there are other movies that more suit the title? Well, NO.  Most bad movies are bad because there are so many people in the control of the production.  No matter what you think, the Director is usually powerless if executives want to add or rearrange movies the way they seem fit.  It's these EXECUTIVE types who normally ruin the movies you think are so bad.  But WOODY ALLEN has COMPLETE artistic freedom to whatever he wants.  He is one of the ONLY directors in the US who have this power. And that's what makes this movie so HORRIBLE.  This is a making movies-by-habit and it is a total slap in the face to anyone who buys a movie ticket. Woody Allen, who so often has demeaned other directors and writers for making movies that seem unworthy of the medium has just made a movie for no other reason than he was given the money to do it.  I cannot believe Woody Allen put this thing together and thought it was good.  He couldn't.  IT'S AWFUL. It's UNWATCHABLE.It's thrown together like three eggs about to be scrambled.  I don't want to harp on age differences, but when Woody comes in to meet his girlfriend Debra Messing, she couldn't even pass for his DAUGHTER!  She looks like his GRANDDAUGHTER.  But that disturbing casting does not ruin the movie.  It's the WRITING.  Woody Allen is making comedies when he is no longer funny. And he throws lines out there just to see if they stick to the wall. These are non-stick walls, folks.  I'll give you an example.  In one scene, someone mentions he should buy a mercedes and he says, I can't be driving around in a 29 Mercedes, people will mistake me for Himmler.  Now, that is about the STUPIDEST thing I ever heard.  HIMMLER?  Just because it's slightly obscure, Woody thinks it will cause a laugh.  No, Goering is too well-known, he goes for Himmler.  And it's a TERRIBLE decision.  He also has many jokes later in the movie about a guy whose act is biting the head off of rats, and then we get several rathead-biting comments in the film. It's a TERRIBLE MISCALCULATION.  The FIRST rat-joke wasn't funny, it was STUPID. None of these jokes have any wit.Two times in the movie, Woody tries to evoke his past genius.   One is a cocktail scene early on when some literary names are banted about, and some sex jokes with it, ala Manhattan.  Also, there is a scene where Lea Teoni and Treat Williams talk for an extended time the camera stays still while they go in and out of the room talking.  It's very Hannah-Crimes-Husband and it would have worked, but the dialogue is so bad, you don't even care.A worst movie ever would be one in which someone takes TERRIBLE advantage of you as a fan and a movie-goer, and then insults you in the process.  A movie that wants you to walk out of it in the first ten minutes and lose your money.  This is the one.  I think every year, I am going to just send Woody my seven bucks and save myself the torture.   "},{"Title":"This film guarantees only a limited amount of laughter.","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The mark of a good comedy is that audiences must get a healthy dose of Buster Keaton kind of humor.If that is not the case,a film must not be considered a good example of a classic of comedy genre.Woody Allen surely knows how to make films as he has made films which have become an integral part of American cultural landscape.However,it can be said that his magic has not at all worked wonders with Hollywood Ending,a strange film which was chosen to open Cannes International Film festival 2002.The trouble with Hollywood Ending is that one does not know what Woody Allen is trying to portray.The comedy parts are very much dramatic in nature and laughs are few and far between.This is due to the fact that at surface level his film looks like a product of American culture but on deep introspection one finds that Woody Allen has made a film that not only takes American cinema for a ride but also lampoons Hollywood.This is something which was not accepted by audiences all over the world.French people are the only cinema audiences who appreciate such kind of cinema. This is the reason why such a flop American film has been lapped up by Gallic audiences. "},{"Title":"Rich Idea ..Poor Everything !","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Who loves (Woody Allen) ?.. Me !, Who respects the man and his work ?.. Me !, Who loves and respects his latest movies ? Not me ! As I respect them but not love them !The man is a master who can give you a great idea every time. Actually he's one of my heroes as a scriptwriter with rare goods every time, and the man can make movies despite his age or whatever the troubles around him. So he is a real star, hard worker and so creative. But this time the main problem is that he killed his great idea by his hands ! When a friend of mine told me the summary of this movie I loved it very much. No body would ever think of that before  a Hollywood moviemaker goes blind, so what's the problem among all the other blind directors, movies, industry ? Where the real thing to see is the glamour outwardly and the real thing to make is money deeply & mainly ! But sorry. The movie just sunk ! I thought that the whole thing went wrong with the annoying old performance of (Allen), plus the usual  his repeated moves, his gone-to-weak same way of talking, the assuring about his magical powers in sex !!? So the deadly condition of the atmosphere with ugly music records all the time. Yes (Allen) as a director wants to express sonically how the old golden age ridicules the days of the modern, not artistic, Hollywood but it was very silly and not that eloquently chosen. In fact the whole thing was in frustrating very poor ambiance. Not to mention that idiot ending which I see that it's an insulting for the European cinema ! as the sarcasm of (Allen) reached suddenly everything including the ones who appreciated his work the most, or maybe including himself too as a director who had been loved from the non-American viewers because of his blindness ?!! What a disappointment indeed when I watched the movie finding no higher point than the main idea ! And I thought also that it was mistreated in a way to mock at the makers of the independent cinema more than others. Whereas they're so blind when it comes to the big production or the sly games of Hollywood, with their dull blind lovers too ! (Is it a comedy about preciosity ?!). It was all tasteless, not that comic, that thoughtful, that satiric, nor that good any way. For sure there were some good scenes but to tell you the truth the main idea which is one hell of a hilarious ironic one had been treated without equal hilarious logic ! (As the movie &#x96;within the movie- rocks for instance and wins an Oscar !), so I didn't get completely the catch of Hollywood Ending !? All in all, If you ask me as an old fan of (Allen) about the most beautiful thing here then I'll tell you without a doubt  the sexual attraction of (Tiffani Thiessen) ! And for the most bad thing ?  It was the naive scene where (Allen) recovers his capacity of seeing again  I can see !.. I can see !.. Apparently you don't ! "},{"Title":"Woody is getting old","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen stars as a well noted film director whose fame has already passed its zenith. Suddenly a chance to return to public and critic favour arrives. He is wanted to direct a low budget, art film which is supposed to hit all prestigious film festivals. The biggest problem he faces is the fact that the lead is taken by his ex wife who is now sleeping with the producer. This problem however seems so insignificant really soon because much bigger obstacle is on the way. To see his ex wife is such a psychological torture for the poor director that he develops a very strange neurosis. Arriving on set he gets blind. The only way out is to look for good therapist. Here Allen's genius stops. He outlined the topics and the characters at which he is going to jest heartily film making, Hollywood lifestyle, psychoanalysis, sex, art films. It is good old Woody Allen, yes, too good and unfortunately old. One genuine joke per a dozen ones borrowed from his previous movies, and this time he has two sexy blondes around him instead of one as he used to do before. Hmmm, Woody is really getting old. "}{"Title":"He's a raving, incompetent psychotic.","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Woody Allen making a film satirizing the film industry. What a wonderful, promising concept. What a disappointment. The film fails on two fundamental levels. One, it never even flirts with living up to its potential. Granted, Woody has had the luxury to be a film industry unto himself, making films that are more or less isolated from the mainstream film industry. But even so with over three decades of experience under his belt, one would expect Allen to have a wealth of material to draw from -- and a wealth of resentment to get off his chest. The film's central gimmick -- that Woody plays a director who goes blind just before beginning the filming of his biggest production -- is just that, a gimmick, and one too slight to sustain a film. A zinger here and a one-liner there help, but ultimately the film seems pointless.The other failing of the film is Woody's performance itself. At no time is he credible as a person suffering from a sudden spell of hysterical blindness. Woody stares off into nowhere and flays his arms about and that is about it. Such a gimmick requires an actor with a flare for physical comedy, something that has never been Woody's strong suit. This is one of the few times where a Woody Allen film would have been better had it not had Woody Allen in it. "},{"Title":"Needs a Hollywood Beginning","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There was a moment about five minutes into the film when I thought maybe Woody should have lopped off everything before that point and faded in right then and there.  It just didn't feel like the movie had its bearings yet, it seemed to be muddling through unnecessary exposition, and the jokes were misfiring.  But I got the same feeling at ten minutes, and again at fifteen, and then... well, uh oh.  Of course, there were so many moments like that through the whole movie, I started to wonder if they were intentional.  After all, the running gag of the whole film (from about 20 minutes in) is the movie within the movie's incoherent dailies produced as a result of the director's temporary blindness.  Are we supposed to accept Hollywood Ending's failings as, nudge-nudge, an inside joke?  Sorry, Woody.  Didn't fly.The only thing that really worked was Allen bumbling around like a wearied old man with countless psychosomatic disorders.  In other words, Woody is perennially loveable as himself and getting to watch him standing helplessly in doorways, talking to walls, falling 20 feet off a set, and bumping into people was worth it.  Everything else seemed like first-take or rehearsal junk clinging to a modestly funny, though formulaic script.  And half the 20-something beauties who inexplicably throw themselves at him don't even seem to be in the same movie.  Was Tiffany Thiessen's underwear part included just to kill 10 minutes and boost the teenage-boy demographic?  Debra Messing's part too -- it was almost as though Woody wrote himself into a corner, conveniently removed her for as long as possible and then brought her back to try to save the ending.  Sorry.  Didn't fly.Basically, the premise was solid, but the whole operation should have been tabled, reviewed, reapproached and redone.  But keep the stuff with Woody Allen staring off into space.  "},{"Title":"Too much Hollywood, not enough ending.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm a huge Allen fan, and own almost everything he's directed or starred in (I even liked Celebrity!).  But, I was disappointed in this one, for a couple of reasons.  First, the pacing is frustrating throughout - although some of the individual scenes are beautifully timed, the film feels forced overall, and some of the acting is remarkably bad, which is unusual for Woody films.  Second, Woody never really tapped into the depth under his themes - he could have dealt with psychosomatic handicaps, artistic frustration, and rekindling romance in a much more revealing way, without sacrificing the ability to make the audience laugh (he pulled this sort of thing off with panache in Crimes and Misdemeanors and Bullets Over Broadway, to name only a couple).  Third, and most frustrating, the camera work in the film is not up to Woody's usual par.  He's given up the great work of Sven Nykvist and Zhao Fei for a new collaborator, who doesn't have the instinct or talent to match the brilliance of Woody's previous cinematographers.  So, although some of the dialogue crackles, and there's plenty of sly autobiograohical reference and teasing Hollywood convention in the script (I loved the lifetime achievement award for Haley Joel Osment!), there wasn't enough substance to the film to win me over.  Sorry, Woody. "},{"Title":"Has some good ideas, but that's about it","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was disappointing because it has some good ideas.  Unfortunately it labors over minor matters and the whole thing is pretty generic Woody Allen.  I haven't seen Deconstructing Harry, Small Time Crooks and Celebrity, but I've seen everything else.  I would put this one near the bottom with September, Everyone Says I Love You, Curse of the Jade Scorpion and Another Woman.  It's time for Woody to stop casting himself in his films unless he plays the role of somebody's grandfather.  Physical comedy was never his strong suit, but now it's rather frightening because you're afraid he old guy is really going to hurt himself.  I wish he had cast another actor and had put his energy into the writing, because there were some interesting ideas.  Most of them weren't developed.  A wonderful film could have been made about the translator becoming the film auteur.  I found the lame subplot with the son embarrassing.  A couple of chunks of this movie are really tedious, like the scene wherein he and Tea Leoni are rehearsing his meeting with Treat Williams.  It is not remotely funny or interesting.  I just wanted it to be over.  I thought Ms. Leoni was a real cold fish.  Despite being basically attractive she has virtually no sex appeal.  I found her performance robotic.  I liked George Hamilton in a small role.  This one is strictly for die-hard Woody Allen fans.  Audiences less willing to indulge him will be bored. "},{"Title":"For Woody Allen fans only.","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood Ending is yet another all-Allen product with Woody in the spotlight as a has-been film director who suffers hysterical blindness and has to shoot his last chance flick sans vision - a notion which is made more believable by the lack of vision in this film. Hollywood Ending is an uninspired Woody formula flick which is little more than the usual stammering and anxiously neurotic Woody and his nonstop repartee from beginning to end and doesn't achieve a modicum of the heart, charm, or personality of the best Allen films. In short,  Hollywood Ending is a film only a Woody fan could love. (C) "},{"Title":"Snore","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another Woody Allen snorefest. We keep expecting Woody to make a better movie.But I think its time for Woody to hang it up. This movie is very boring and once again proves that Woody Allen is a has been in my eyes. This is the last time i will waste good money hoping to see a good Woody Allen flick,  "},{"Title":"Allen's clever lines will cheer you up every so often, but don't have too high expectations","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a huge Allen fan, perhaps I have missed his highlights. Perhaps I just don't get his style. 25 minutes into this film I was thinking about not watching the rest, I'm glad I finished it though. There are a couple of excellent lines in the dialog of Allen's character, which brightens you up every 5th minutes, and to me these lines alone almost made it worth watching. On the contrary, other parts of the dialog are as if written by a child, and they just didn't convince me. About halfway into the movie I got into the mellow pace of it all, and I just let it take me to wherever it was going, without expectations. It turned out to be a nice and comfortable ride, taking me to the Hollywood ending. The movie being named Hollywood ending, I thought to perhaps be sarcasm but the movie had a genuine Hollywood ending. To sum it up, don't have the highest expectations, let the movie take you in, Allen's clever lines will cheer you up every so often, you'll find it to be a nice ride. In the end though, personally I can't give this film more then 5/10.  "},{"Title":"Unexpectedly bad for Allen","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see this movie without reading reviews because I associated the name Woody Allen with some minimum quality of film. I left thinking that WA has lost his touch and must be badly in need of money to be willing to tarnish his career with this junk. It's bad quality all over the story, the acting, and there are many scenes where you can see the microphone at the top of the screen! The film is as bad as the film in the film. Maybe that is the idea. If it is, it is not a very good one either. "},{"Title":"Woody Sleepwalks","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is what you would imagine  a movie would be like if you  asked a bunch of amateurs to write a Woody Allen flick ( a la the It Was A Dark and Stormy Night series of books). This movie plays more like an overlong SNL spoof on Allen films than the genius we've come to expect. Not only would I say save your money and DO NOT see this at a theatre...don't even bother renting it. It's BAD!!! That said...why aren't Tea Leoni and Marion Seldes in more films??? They were the only remotely bright spots here. Too bad, but I guess such prolific filmmakers are allowed a few dogs...better luck next time Woody! "},{"Title":"I guess you have to be a Woody Allen fan...","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies ever. You probably have to be a Woody fan to at least like this one.I went to a Sneak-preview with a few friends and we were this close to walking out of there. But I wanted to see if the end of the movie made up for the rest. It didn't.I only laughed once, when Woody fell down a few meters. The rest of the movie is extremely boring and extremely not funny.Woody Allen is a not funny dirty old man. It looks to me he needs to make crappy movies like this just to get his hands/eyes on some pretty half naked women. "}{"Title":"The end of Woody's career? We're soon there, I fear....","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hollywood Ending is really, really not very good, a few more films like this and Woody is done in Hollywood.Basically, he plays himself, directing a new flick, nothing new you say - but wait, here's the trickPoor Woody is so nervous that he goes blind, a more hysterical twist must be hard to find.He stumbles around, stuttering like an old fool, yet young women just look at him and drool.Surely that couldn't happen in real life? But remember - his daughter is now his wife...The movie is of the one-joke kind to be sure, which sadly makes it excruciating to endure.Woody has lost his special film making touch. Goodbye, farewell, thank you very much.Gone is all the intelligence and wit, and we're left with a steaming pile of...It is slow and boring, not the least bit fun, out of ten I can just give it a one. "},{"Title":"The cruelest, most selfish movie by a megalomaniacal geezer since Chaplin's COUNTESS IN HONG KONG!","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  By all rational standards Tea Leoni is a stunning woman. Thosepiercing eyes, that ski-slope nose, the endless legs, the equalparts patricianness, intelligence and restless energy that animateher in FLIRTING WITH DISASTER, the writer-director David O.Russell knew how to use her almost-too-muchness for humor;and in a big effects movie like DEEP IMPACT, the director, MimiLeder, understood how to let Leoni's natural radiance comethrough the juggernaut of cosmic doom. In HOLLYWOOD  ENDING, Leoni plays Woody Allen's ex-wife--a studio suit oncemarried to Allen's washed-up seventies director. And I cannotrecall a single movie--not even including romantic comedies shoton digital video for no money--in which the female lead is givenfewer closeups than HOLLYWOOD ENDING. She's a skinny objectwith a bobbing blond head appearing somewhere near the lowerright edge of the frame--the center of which is all about Wood,Wood, Wood.Our national treasure has received withering, almost  unconscionably cruel reviews for HOLLYWOOD  ENDING--unconscionable, maybe, until you see the movie. Criticsseem to delight in Allen's aging and his physical decay. But there'snothing fun, not even in a Schadenfreudeous way, in watching thepsychosomatically blind filmmaker played by Allen groping thebreast of an eager-for-sex Tiffany Amber Thiessen; or blindlyknocking over furniture or falling on the floor. A scene in whichAllen, in conversation with Leoni about an upcoming movie,alternates composed chatter about his filmmaking choices withjealous eruptions about her shallow studio-head fiancee, ranks asthe unfunniest moment in any Woody Allen movie. The great manhas reduced his entire cast to straight men feeding him set-uplines. Everyone exists to serve the lovable hypochondriac's needs.Allen, in an attempt at commercialism, served up boring treaclelike MANHATTAN MURDER MYSTERY and MIGHTY APHRODITE in  the mid-nineties. Now he has done his make-nice job withDreamWorks. One longs for him to return to the black bile ofDECONSTRUCTING HARRY and HUSBANDS AND  WIVES--where, one suspects, his heart is, anyway. Allen recentlypraised AMORES PERROS and Y TU MAMA TAMBIEN as his  favorite recent pictures. Let those two paper plates of Mexican dogfood be a lesson to him. May he exorcise the spirit of Neil Simonand replace it with the soul of Jodorowsky! "},{"Title":"Yet a new one, yet the same","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I promise, this is the last time I give Allen a chance, ever. I always think This new one can't be that bad, but it seems he can't stop being so much himself with his pathetic hysterical illnesses taking over any movie he makes. Maybe the only exception was Anything else and that was thanks to Jason Biggs who is funny just by looking at him. Allen is too old to get middle-aged women as romantic couples also, he is going to be 70 soon and he looks like he was 80!! He would probably be better taking grandpa roles more than the leading man... I didn't even smile during the entire movie. The truth is, I even fast forward some parts. When he was younger I remember seeing some great movies he made, but now, by the end of his career, probably he is making movies (writing, directing and editing) just like the character in this one  in complete blindness.  "},{"Title":"Save your money","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is painful to sit through.  You will be very tired of the blind gimmick after about 15 minutes, but it goes on and on and on.  There are only a few chuckles in this movie, and I couldn't wait for it to end.  Save your money and see The Cat's Meow instead. "},{"Title":"Hollywood Failing?","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Woody Allen is, like many opinionated writers/directors, an acquired taste. For some he is the be-all-and-end-all of genuine auteurs (one of the best self-referential ironies in the film); for others a one-trick-pony who occasionally gets it right (something also explored in the script). But is Hollywood Ending art? Is it clever? Well, yes it is and no it isn't. The one-liners don't work all the time and I feel that Tea Leone and Debra Messing are horribly miscast. Allen is, however, notorious for his precision in selecting actors that he feels are suitable for central roles therefore it's possible I've missed the point. They might be DELIBERATELY bad; as could be the muddled script.The central irony, in its apparent entirety, is that an American multi-Oscar-winning, psychosomatically-blind director, has produced a non-commercial and non-viable movie (indeed, which he hasn't seen during the whole period of pre- and post-production) which the French perceive of as a masterpiece and who, in turn, will probably influence the rest of Europe into a similar acceptance. Ahhhh. Oh! (D'oh!) Obviously, artistic cinema is only appreciated outside the boundaries of the Hollywood system. There is a reference here to Charlie Chaplin fleeing to France and, perhaps, the notion that Clint Eastwood is only accepted as an excellent director by the French and, of course, awarded as such.Perhaps another director would have turned this into a savage criticism of corporate Hollywood per se, but this is not Allen's style at least not these days. I'm sorry. It COULD have been brilliant, but it seems a throwaway, patchy attempt at resurrecting this director's credibility. But, of course, being a Woody Allen film-within-a-film that's the point in the first place. That's the story being presented on the screen.  "},{"Title":"Great drama","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Probing, thought-provoking, existential drama by Woody Allen.  He plays a down and out director who gets one last chance at a big film.  Unfortunately all the stress gives him psychosomatic blindness  the grueling film depicts his tear-jerking efforts to do the film while blind.The drama is strong and depressing (and boring).  The jokes are all stupid and obvious--but this must have been done on purpose to heighten the tension!There are great performances by Tea Leoni and Debra Messing.  They deal with the most lame jokes every heard and manage not to gag on camera--very admirable.  This also heightens the drama.  Allen plays the same role he has for almost 30 years...except know he applies it to drama with truly unbelievable results.A stunning drama worthy of Bergman or Fellinni---wait--was this supposed to be a comedy?????? "},{"Title":"Most boring movie ever.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen a lot of movies.And this one I saw in a sneak preview.I can't believe people can enjoy garbage like this.Maybe it's because Americans have a different sense of humour, but I don't know anyone who actually enjoyed watching this failure in my neighbourhood.Woody Allen is nothing else than a dirty old man, without humour! "}]