[{"Title":"Extremely Enjoyable!!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"68 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First off...why does the fact that this movie deals with spousal abuse and a woman smart enough to run and hide automatically make it a ripoff of Sleeping with the Enemy?  Because The Count of Monte Cristo has swordplay, does that make it a ripoff of all of the Zorro movies, or the Robin Hood movies?  Does the fact that Spiderman is a Marvel Superhero make it a ripoff of The X-Men?  Of course not. And only the very basic storylines make Enough and Sleeping... similar at all. Let me illustrate...In Sleeping with the Enemy, Julia Roberts plays a weak willed woman who stays with her mentally abusive husband until she finally has enough and leaves when she gets the chance to fake her death. Julia never changes...always the weak willed, scared out of her gourd hiding wife.In Enough, Jennifer Lopez plays a strong minded woman who decides to leave her abusive husband as soon as she finds out what he is really like. Jennifer never changes either...but in this case she maintains her strength, and although scared out of her gourd also, she sets out to confront him in a physical battle...his forte usually. This movie was great entertainment. Anyone who says they felt this was a total yawner, with no tension at all is too critical. This is what entertainment is about. This was a great way to spend 2 hours as far as I am concerned.Ms Lopez is becoming a better actress with each film. But, as far as the female actresses go in this flick...the little girl who portrayed Jennifer's daughter out-acted everyone else...male or female. Two thumbs UP for this little lady!! "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"48 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What's everybody's problem? This movie realistically portrayed domestic abuse and had a great plot, acting, everything. The end scene is the best, in my opinion. maybe it is just a chick flick, but it does a good job of drawing you in and keeping you there, my emotions ran high.Maybe people should stop looking at movies so critically and look at them for what they are - a way to gain understanding of other people's lives and issues like domestic violence, which is society's problem, not just the victim's.  "},{"Title":"A psychotherapist's view.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"37 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  My approach to most movies is a bit different.  As a therapist, I try to see how true the movie's life situations and story lines are.  Enough set the stage in the first 10 minutes.  The process of the abuse follows very well how it goes in reality ... the denial ... the male determination to be in charge ... not wanting to go to a shelter ... not wanting to put her husband in jail ... the dad fooling the child into beliving what a good guy he really is ... the attitude of the male what are you going to do about it... the getting up the courage to run away ... the police telling her of the complexities ... the lawyer telling her that there is nothing he can do (legally)... the child witnessing or geting involved in the violence ... and so on.  Over 70% of all murders of the woman by the husband occurs AFTER she goes to the authorities.  NOW ... the ending is NOT realistic.  But rather it is the ending that most wish would happen. I see these situations regularly.  Domestic violence is (with rare exception) against the woman. "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"37 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSI won't bother making jokes about this film's title, as it seems others have beaten me to that punch.  Jennifer Lopez and her celebrated butt go on the run, trying to protect her little potato-dumpling-faced daughter from rich, violent, powerful Billy Campbell and his weaselly servant.  If you think this sounds like a simplistic scenario, well, tough, because that's all ya get.  This `story' plods on from one `thrilling' episode to another, and the `conflict' is ultimately resolved in a way not exactly notable for its complexity J. Lo takes kickboxing lessons from some kind of cross between Pat Morita, Louis Gossett, Jr., and Obi-Wan Kenobi; then she just breaks into Billy's house, kicks his ass and kills him!  The end!  To say this finale is morally ambiguous and simplistic is being very, very kind; but then again so is referring to this thing a film, and I've already done that, so who cares.The style could accurately be described as soft-core-porn-without-the-sex, and someone should tell Michael Apted that nobody's interested in that.  As for the cast, J. is her usual blank self, Billy Campbell sleepwalks through his cartoon-villain role, Potato Face is among the more irritating movie children in recent memory, Juliette Lewis continues her career degeneration, and man, does Fred Ward look old.  Final verdict good for some laughs, but not many.  1 out of 10.  Okay, I will indulge in one joke about the title they should have dropped the e-n-o and just called it Ugh.  "},{"Title":"Refreshing for some victims/survivors of abuse!","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"39 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...who have had ENOUGH of turning the other cheek! I'm sure there are many abuse survivors out there who could identify with what she went through and wished they'd had the strength to follow in her footsteps.  Kudos to someone's imagination of what if I could fight back?!  "},{"Title":"Love It !","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie, for a variety of reasons... Jennifer for a start gives it a green light in my book, and yes, while its is reminiscent of Sleeping with the Enemy, I find Slim much stronger than Julias character in that movie.... Michael APted is a brilliant director, and Juliette Lewis makes up the rest of a great cast. I was shocked when it went strauight to DVD in the UK, i saw a pirate copy from a friend who wokrs at Columbia, and I loved it , and raved about it for weeks...It keeps me on the edge of my seat , and everytime I watch it, that first time Mitch hits Slim still makes me gasp. I whole heartedly recommend this film top anyone...  "},{"Title":"My review","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Clarissa Rodriguez Movie Review 9 November 2012 Self Defense is not MurderPunch, kick, slap! Not exactly what any mother or wife has in mind when marrying the man that's supposed to be the man of her dreams. The movie Enough I must say is one of my all-time favorite movies ever made. Jennifer Lopez plays a woman named Slim who gets married to a man, Mitchell, who she thinks is the one. After birthing their child Gracey, Mitchell begins to have affairs. Not liking the situation she is in once she finds out about the affairs she confronts her husband which leads to a brutal beating. She then finds the courage to leave after consulting her best friend Ginny, and then it becomes a massive task for Slim to keep her daughter and herself out of harm's way. She then comes up with a brilliant plan to get Mitchell alone after training with a defense teacher. He won't give up on getting his daughter back and also won't give up on trying to get Slim back so she ends up killing Mitchell for the sake of her life and the life of her off spring. This movie reaches out to all women in my opinion. It lets you know that it isn't OK to harm woman. It also in some sort shows that woman have a right to leave the relationship if it ever becomes too toxic for the wife or the child involved.This movie connects with the world in ways that make me admire the movie even more. It is not morally correct to cheat and beat your spouse after they have given you everything. I loved the characters in the movie. Joe was one of my favorites. He played as the ex-boyfriend of slims who was still in love with her. Joe is an example of the moral man in this world. He helped slim and her daughter as much as he could. That's what a real man should do, he most definitely shouldn't hit you much less be disloyal to you. Yes, Mitchell had money so if he was sent to jail he would automatically get bailed out. Ladies don't let money be the prime factor that scares you into staying with the man that beats you, just because he is rich doesn't justify violence.I enjoyed the end the most when she plotted against her soon to be ex-husband. She broke into his house and found his weapons then put letters in his drawer to indicate she was coming to talk about custody over Gracey. They day he came home she was waiting for him and she planned that he would attack her and she would defensively fight back and kill him. In my opinion the training she got was impeccable. The techniques that were taught to her saved her life and ended the pro-longed nightmare coming up ahead of her due to the fact they had a custody hearing. I also liked how the movie appealed to the emotions of slim having her father leave her and then later on in the movie he ends up helping her get through this because of how much he was not in her life to begin with. In real life situations outside of a movie people always have others that will help you. This moment lets women know it is OK to confide in loved and even friends like Jenny and Phil. A little message to the men out there who find it OK to hit women why don't you watch this movie and get the hint. "},{"Title":"Several women can relate to her situation","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone is entitled to their own opnion but when it comes to this movie, it couldnt of been done any better, the cast speaks for itself along with the message. The movie isnt about fame and fourtune or how big J.lo's butt is. Jennifer Lopez portrayed Slim very well and i recomend this Girl Power movie to anyone who enjoys inner power flims. "},{"Title":"average enough","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie reminded me of Sleeping with the Enemy, with Jennifer Lopez playing a physically abused by her husband lady who first runs away and then fights back. Lopez does a credible job in her role, and the movie was pretty good. I loved her martial arts training scenes. You might like this movie if given the chance.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Better than i expected","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Made in the same vein as 'Sleeping with the Enemy' Enough actually manages to entertain and be its own film quite easily. Slim (Jennifer Lopez) thought she was entering domestic bliss when she married Mitch (Billy Campbell), but after the birth of their first child; Mitch reveals his darker side and Slim goes on the run with their daughter.Now hunted by her spouse, she finally has enough, and engages Mitch in a battle of wits and physical ability.'Enough' is good entertainment and despite some minor flaws it has plenty of action, thrills and tension.OK it's nowhere near the best thriller around, but its worth a look 6/10 "}{"Title":"Am I the only person who realizes how awful this movie is?","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"26 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I appreciate a good bad movie. If a movie is bad enough, it can be fun to watch. This movie, however, is SO bad that you can't even enjoy it's awfulness. I mean seriously. I'm *very* patient for bad movies, in many cases i love them, but this may very well be the absolute worst movie I've ever seen, and not just because of the terrible supporting actors.In all sincerity, pornography typically has better writing and directing than this, and the plot makes more sense. The real paradox about this film; despite being disorganized and random, it somehow manages to be totally predictable.For those who haven't seen it, the basic plot is that a WONDERFUL guy marries j-lo and gives her everything she wants. 5 years into the marriage, his pager goes off, and she looks at the number instantly comes to the conclusion that he's cheating on her. She decides to leave in the middle of the night while he's asleep in the room, rather than during the hours and hours he's away during the daytime. So he decides to kick j-lo in the face a bunch of times, which doesn't leave a scratch on her. The rest of the movie is basically him pursuing her.So she runs away, and he chases after her, trying VERY visibly and publicly to kill her. By publicly i mean doing things like... knocking down total strangers to run up to a bus she's on, then pounding on the side of the bus while screaming something to the effect of I AM GOING TO KILL YOU AS SOON AS I CATCH YOU BITCH... or kicking in hotel room doors... or sending goons to vandalize the place she's living at, who delight us by delivering gripping and thrilling lines like Hey Bitch, do you know what it feels like to die because you are so stupid?. In fact, i think the word bitch occurs once for every 3 spoken lines.The characters fail to achieve even a meager 2 dimensions; even cartoon villains are more conflicted than these characters. The bad guys (i.e. men) are 100% evil and unremorseful, and the good guys (i.e. girls) are perfect and pure in their motivations.If you enjoyed this movie, be sure to also catch Troll 2 and Panic Room and Road Rage. I enjoy terrible movies, but this was just above and beyond terrible. "},{"Title":"Brutality is no match for wit and skill.","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie for women to watch because it shows that size is no disadvantage in a fight, and that wit and preparation are half the battle. So many women are in exactly this situation and end up being killed because they can't stop it early. This movie could have gone into more detail on her physical preparation, and also on the emotional trauma of abuse and her gradual transition to a fighting mentality, but there is only so much you can pack into one movie. But it sure is nice to see a non-helpless female for a change. It is a sad comment on the world that a woman who fights back is so unusual that it makes a dramatic movie. This movies has a great message no on is going to rescue us, so we'd better take matters into our own hands. "},{"Title":"Already seen","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Enough was one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. You really learn of how much a woman can take when she is abused. Jennifer Lopez played an excellent part, and I loved of how she kicked his butt at the end. Enough is a great movie for anyone to see. Even though the plot of the movie was all ready seen, it will keep your interest from beginning to end. It is a great movie to watch, but just one time. I would rate the movie at 8. "},{"Title":"eye-opener","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie should let every woman know if a man seems too good to be true, he is. The only thing I admire in this movie is the support of her friends in tough times. It's good that Slim's waitress friend was there for her since it was she that persuaded Slim to go after Mitch in the first place. Most of the scenes were out of place like someone mentioned in the comments, like for instance her father Jupiter(I don't know how or why they fit that in) plus the part where she all of a sudden she wants to challenge a man to fight him. I totally understand the frustration and the weariness of being on the run, but I'm sure there were other ways to give him a taste of his own medicine. For instance she could have had her rich father Jupiter hire someone to snuff him out just like he was sending someone after her. I'm not condoning violence, but when you have a child you just don't put your life in danger like that, especially when you're not sure of the man regardless of how much physical training you've had. I know you're saying calm down it's just a movie, but I'm hoping someone's not motivated to try the same thing. This movie is merely a way to show how versatile Jennifer Lopez can be in the movies as well as her singing career. Like Tina Turner I enjoyed Slim's comeback and self-esteem she got from the training but again I think physically challenging her deranged husband wasn't smart. I'll give it a C plus. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER!!! This is a great movie starring some great actors and actresses, such as Jennifer Lopez.  J.Lo runs from her abusive husband, with her child. Finally, she has ENOUGH, and fights back, eventually killing him.  This is a great movie that shows that girls can kick ass!!! "},{"Title":"Just enough","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this film was good. I saw it about a month ago and have been waiting for it to come out in England since then. J-Lo was great as Slim and I loved the martial arts she did. The plot was a bit unoriginal but the actors did well to make it a success. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the best dramas of the year! This is a must see film and if you dont see it you will be missing out big time! This is a movie that is so entertaning! There is not one boring minute of this movie! You have to see this movie! Its a demand! Peace out! "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  We enjoyed the movie.  The acting was good and the story line did not drag as in some suspense style programs.  I'm not sure, but I believe this movie was trying to make a statement as to spousal abuse.  Regardless, it is worth viewing.Thank you, "},{"Title":"Nothing wrong with payback!!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie!  I personally think it is more enjoyable for women since men would probably get their egos a little-bruised seeing him get his just reward!   My husband picked up the dvd for me for Christmas. I enjoy the theme song by Amy Mann (of Til Tuesday).The only part that bothered me was seeing him toss his little daughter across the room.  You can see how this affected little Gracie, and its one of those movie-of-the-week films perfect for viewing on Lifetime.Nonetheless, Enough was a great picture with a good deal of suspense and the acting was pretty good.  On a 1-10 scale, I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"J.Lo has had enough","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a good one although it didn't make any big opening week numbers. It should have. It was one of J.Lo's best movies ever. The movie seemed to be a bit long but once you start watching, you won't stop.J.Lo's character represented what every woman should do in a situation like that, Enough is enough!, Get out before it's too late! I'd recommend seeing this movie. I watched it with my family and loved it! The end of the movie, I won't give it away but you have to see it. It was great. J.lo kicked a** in this movie. Go rent it soon!! "}{"Title":"One of the best movies yet.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enough was one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. You really learn of how much a woman can take when she is abused. Jennifer Lopez played an excellent part, and I loved of how she kicked his butt at the end. Enough is a great movie for anyone to see. This movie will keep your interest from beginning to end. It is a great movie to watch over and over. Go watch the movie and you will not regret it. I rate the movie a 10. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was GREAT! I was impressed with Juliette Lewis's performance. I am so used to her being the crazy girl and the fact that she was so normal impressed me. I found Billy Campbell's perfomancevery interesting also. It seemed that everyone in this movie played the opposite of what we are used to seeing them play. She kicked his butt, and I loved it! "},{"Title":"If you liked Sleeping With The Enemy and Safe Haven you will enjoy this flick","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have been a fan of Jennifer Lopez since 1999, and I saw her in a lot of movies from Monster In Law,to Maid In Manhattan,heck I even seen Angel Eyes and that was good.Enough is a 2002 thriller starring Jennifer Lopez and it tells the story of a hardworking waitress named Slim who got tangled up with some guy who was hitting on her,while a handsome man played by Billy Campbell saves her from the guy that was hitting on Slim(and this all happened really quick BTW). First she met the guy at the café/diner where she worked,than she got married to him and then she had a CHILD with him all in the 15 minute intro into the film. But as Slim thinks that her marriage to Campbell's charcther is a life full of bliss,it all turns sour when he starts hitting her violently,forcing her to take her daughter and go on the run,but when he catches up with her again,she goes to San Francisco and Michigan where in one of her trips on the run she meets a former friend of her's called Joe and changes her name to Erin. But as she is enjoying her new life with a new identity and hairdo will her psychopath husband find her and will she be able to fight back and get rid of him from her life altogether?Bottom line I seen this twice before but I forgot it and I seen it again a few days ago for the second time and quite frankly it wasn't a bad movie. The acting was good,the story was good and the climax at the end was also great. My main issue with this film is the beginning where it says HEY ENOUGH,TO HAVE AND TO HOLD,RUN ETC. Overall I'm giving it a 6. "},{"Title":"the abused woman that turns","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie purely because I heard that JLO had studied Krav Maga (Israeli self defence system with serious street cred and respect). Here is the simple story JLo falls in love does the white picket fence has baby etc and then discovers that she thinks husband is cheating. He slaps her and leaves a shiner and so it continues. She runs (at the worst time the guy is still in bed at home) And tries to hide etc etc.That part obviously designed to crank up the tension (it doesn't in fact you'll be as bored as me at this stage). So our JLo decides time to stop running and fight back and she is going learn from scratch self defence. Anyways even the goofs in this movie are great the cellphone blocker which clearly shows full signal strength. I digress. Here is the part worth watching. JLo finds his pad and scouts it (gets a feel and uses common sense to move any sharp objects weapons etc) Makes sure she can navigate around in the dark. Self Awareness and spacial awareness that anybody should do when they go anywhere unfamiliar. Then the fight kicks off and naturally JLo wins finishing with an escape from a choke and a couple of standard punches kicks etc. My problem with this movie is that it could and should have been much better. It just isn't happening. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people tell you","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I admit, this is no Oscar winning film. But still, I thought it was a not so bad way to spend an hour and a half. Jennifer Lopez is offering a solid performance as Slim. She's being harass by her abusive husband.Now the script is as old as Mathusalem and the movie is sometimes so predictable that it makes you laugh, but still, JLo puts in a few good punches!I must also tell you that I'm a big fan of Juliette Lewis. I just can't get ENOUGH of her don't mess with me attitude!Out of 100, I gave Enough 74. That's good for **½ out of ****.Seen in Toronto, at the Varsity Odeon Cinemas, on June 8th, 2002. "},{"Title":"this movie is a different one","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This famous story, where we can see Jennifer Lopez making a good casting seems different from any other American movies. Indeed, according with my opinion, this movie has been made in a different way and wrote differently as well. The kind of characters is widely different than the traditional one. Then, it's so much different from the other movies that before reading the information about, on this site, I had thought the movie had been written by someone from another country than USA. Though, It seems that it's just a different American movie. So, I can say it's a good, well done movie. It's interesting for its difference and its good suspense that you will never want to put down. I recommend you to lend this movie.  "},{"Title":"Once is Enough","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    ***MILD SPOILERS*** Enough is about a waitress named Slim (Jennifer Lopez) who is swept off her feet by a chivalrous and charming man named Mitch (Bill Campbell).  After a few happy years, Slim is in the kitchen when her husband's pager goes off. Curious, she dials the number, only to find that her husband is cheating on her.  She immediately confronts him, and he hits her for the first time. A few weeks later, she decides to run, taking Gracie (Tessa Allen) with her, but is stopped again by Mitch's fists.  Heroically, Slim's friends show up in the nick of time and save Slim and Gracie.  Soon Slim and Gracie are on the run, hiding across the country, but Mitch is always close on her heels. Finally she starts intense self defense training-she's going to learn how to fight back.  In the end, she gets her revenge and saves Gracie and herself from the clutches of the evil Mitch.Michael Apted, the director, is attempting to show how women are less likely to live with a man who beats her in today's world.  Slim's intense training and initial fight with Mitch shows that women are gaining the strength which they would have been shunned for fifty years ago.   Apted also wants women who are in relationships like Slim's to know there are ways out and they don't have to live with it.  Apted's ending illustrates how women are no longer defenseless, but can be just as strong as or stronger than a man.I love the way Apted shows how far a woman will go to protect her child. The manner in which Slim gets revenge shows that women can take control of their lives and not live under the rule of an abusive husband.  The way in which her friends stand by her and help her in every way possible is also very appealing to me.  This is a movie that shows women how to stand up against a man who beats them-and win.  "},{"Title":"A feminist PSA","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why this movie released worldwide?  Why didn't they just organize a private screening with a group of whiny feminists, so they can look up at the screen and cheer?  Now, I wasn't offended by the film's depiction of men.  It was just laughable.  In Thelma and Louise some of the male characters were portrayed negatively, but in a believable fashion.  And that film was actually written by a feminist!  In this case, we have a one-dimensional abusive husband who slaps his wife and spouts out such cliched dialogue as, I make the money in this house!  We go by my rules!  His wife catches him cheating one night, and suddenly he loses his conscience?  Come on, she did marry the guy!  He can't be that cold-blooded.  That proves that this is no more than a propaganda film that preaches its message like a minister at his morning sermon.  Yes, millions of women in this world get abused.  But usually, there's some sort of motive behind it--whether or not it makes sense.  And if not, it's due to alcoholism or drugs.  The husband's anger in this story is merely a setup for a final kickboxing match between him and J-Lo.  So if you've seen the trailers, you've seen it all.  No surprises here.  And can someone please explain why her ex-boyfriend is the nicest guy you can possibly meet?  This gent travels to the ends of the earth for her, providing shelter for her and her daughter, covering up for her when the FBI comes to search the place.  Yet she dumped HIM?  That's one mystery I have yet to find out  Why is that in movies the ex-lovers are always so much more likable than their current lovers?    Jennifer Lopez is a fine actress, but she doesn't have much to work with here.  Her job is to cry and scream like a hammy soap opera actress, until she finally transforms into Rambo in the third act.  There are no thrills or chills.  All the suspense is pure cliche.  We have the ringing telephone and even one scene in which J-Lo's daughter is playing with a basketball, it rolls away and the ball is stopped by...take a guess!  The dialogue becomes more and more horrible by the nanosecond.  Juliette Lewis seems totally misplaced in a thankless role written for a fourth-rate actress.   Domestic abuse is a serious subject, but in this film it's totally trivialized to conventional thriller.  If you want to see a more believable film about domestic violence, watch the John Travolta film Domestic Disturbance.  This would've made a good PSA, but why waste time and resources making this into a big-budget Hollywood movie?  I can't say this is simply a J-Lo vehicle, especially since she's far from glamourized in this role, sporting a short hair-do and having her face bruised through half of the movie.  Her past films, like The Wedding Planner and Angel Eyes, were J-Lo vehicles, but I liked those two movies.  It's films like this that will help end her career.  The only thing a movie like this is worth is a barrell of unintentional laughs.  If you treat this as a comedy, you might be somewhat entertained.  'Cause every aspect of this film is funny  the dialogue, the countless cliches, the cardboard characters.  Hell, I probably got more laughs out of Enough than Corky Romano.  Women will probably cheer when J-Lo gives her husband the 1-2 punch.  But if you're not a woman, or the average woman, you will find this pseudo-thriller completely laughable.  My score  3 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film is about a husband who beats his wife. So Slim (J.LO) and her daughter Gracy have to run away from LA to North Michigan. That's the beginning of a dangerous chase because her husband Mitch (Billy Campbell) is a stalker and follows her across the whole country. She decides to hurt him more than he has ever done it to her. The topic of the movie is that not only the man is the strong part of a relationship and how a woman fights in such a situation. J.Lo convinces in her role as an angry mother and even soap-smartie Noah Wyle surprises as a bad boy. The film isn't a blockbuster but nevertheless enjoyable.E4 English class at the Thomas-Mann-Oberschule Berlin Janine, Claudia, Nina, Silke, Dominique, Annika, Karolina  "},{"Title":"Not too bad!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was actually pretty good.  It had some plot holes and unexplained details but overall it was pretty good.  Jennifer Lopez plays a battered wife that has been pushed to far.  It was very nice to see the girl turn the tables and take charge!  6/10!  If you have free time and the money go see it.  Otherwise this is one that can wait for video.  "}{"Title":"good movie","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" if you're super critical of everything then you're never going to find more than 2 movies that you'll like in your lifetime. If you aren't then you'll like this movie. It's a thriller. It's sad and really shows the fear in abused wives, and the untouchable relationship between a daughter and a mother. Gracie, Slim (Jennifer Lopez)'s daughter, is the portrays the confused daughter stuck between both parents whom she loves, and unaware of the father's abusive behavior. Enough shows how women can stand up for themselves, and that no matter how strong, powerful, and rich someone can be, there is always a way out. Enough is a thriller movie, where the viewer is taken on a joy ride of waiting to see how Slim escapes her murderer. "},{"Title":"Opinion-dividing","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A movie where an abused woman finally has had her fill and decides to do something about the situation. And for some reason this came across as overly wake and forced, as though it could never happen in real life. But I was forced to ponder, why. Because had this been a film about, say, an abused factory worker, who decides to take action against his monster of a boss, it wouldn't have been anything extraordinary. But when it's a woman that decides to become proactive, it somehow feel slightly odd and even wrong. Are we so ingrained with our conceptions about what the different genders should be like that seeing a woman take a very masculine stance on something automatically bothers us? Apparently so, or at least I was, to my complete surprise.And therein lies the strength of this film. It's brave enough to take a stance, to have a woman in a role that's usually reserved for males, to do something that's pretty much expected of from men in movies, but which is extremely rare for her gender. In that aspect it's extremely fresh, invigorating and all kinds of awesome.Unfortunately the execution of this bold idea ain't so hot, so to speak. The actors are rather good in their roles, though Jennifer Lopez still has that I was born with a silver spoon in my mouth quality to her no matter how much she suffers. Not a flaw really, but she wasn't a perfect fit for the role. But in the end it's the storytelling and the pacing that keep this movie from being great. The basic plot flows pretty well, but there are certain scenes that go by way too fast and some that just go on and on and on... You've all seen movies like this where the third act is really hurried and the final solution comes right out of nowhere with no explanation or forewarning. It doesn't ruin the film, really, but it is more than little aggravating.Still, I can't say that I wasted my time watching this film. It's a good concept with slightly below average execution so as a whole this is still perfectly watchable no matter how you look at it. "},{"Title":"on the whole an okay movie that opens your eyes to the dangers of abuse","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i thought JLO was quite believable in this film. a little obvious with setting traps and building escape routes, reminded me of sleeping with the enemy but it opens your eyes to the realism that woman have to face every day in an abusive situation.Billy Campbell was great as the psycho husband, it was great to see that he didn't care that he was seeing other woman or how it made Slim feel, it was his house so his rules which a lot of people live by now. his character was believable to be someone that hit their wife to gain control and didn't like the power to be taken from him.This is the first time i have seen Noah Wyle as a bad character as i am used to his fun loving character in ER, Dr John Carter. although it did un nerve me a bit to see him as such a bad person it was a refreshing change to see he can play wide range of characters.when watching this movie it was obvious from the beginning that the two men in the diner were scamming Slim and doing the 'good cop, bad cop' routine to get her into bed.JLO's character did fight back, which encourages woman to do so because in this day it is very difficult for a woman to find the courage to stand up to such a situation and this film helps you to do that.i give it *** three out of five stars for originality and dialogue! "},{"Title":"not 2 bad","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the story is great because it hasnt been used by hollywood 4000000 times! i think its one of j lo's better roles, even though some may not agree.  but i think the actress that played the daughter was a little annoying at times...ouch i shouldn't have said it! "},{"Title":"How much is Enough","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler Alert The Film `Enough', directed by Michael Apted in 2002, is a movie based on an abused woman who learns to fight back. Jennifer Lopez, who plays Slim in the film, works at a diner when she meets the man of her dreams named Mitch (Billy Campbell). Slim and Mitch soon become married and live the happily married life raising their daughter Gracie (Tessa Allen). As Slim starts to get suspicious of Mitch's late night getaways, a woman pages Mitch with a code. Like any suspicious wife would be, Slim called this woman back, and soon found out that Mitch was having an affair. After Slim confronts Mitch about this woman, he smacks her and tells her that this is the way they are going to live, because she will never leave him. After Mitch turns more violent, Slim decides it is time to leave him while she still can. One night, when Ginny (Juliette Lewis) and Joe (Dan Futterman) were waiting for outside of Slim's home, Slim takes Gracie and tries to leave. As they are walking out the front door, Mitch grabs Slim and throws her on the ground beating her. Slim and Gracie escape with the help of their friends, but that was not the end of it. For a long time, Slim would travel with Gracie to different hotels hoping that Mitch would never find them. One night after receiving a phone call from Ginny, the phone rang again, and it was Mitch, he had found them. Eventually Slim and Gracie went for help from Slim's real father to start up a new life. They thought everything was fine until Robbie (Noah Wyle), a cop friend of Mitch, found them and lead Mitch to their home. Once again, Mitch threw in a few hits but Slim and Gracie got away. As time went by, Slim sent Gracie with Ginny so she could take care of a few things. Slim eventually went to a personal trainer for self defense and learned how to fight Mitch back. A few weeks had passed, and she was finally ready to show Mitch how strong she was. Slim went to Mitch's house to get peace and her freedom, and she accomplished both. This film showed that not all women are helpless, that there is a way to fight back, and a way to protect your children. It shows that the abuse in marriages, no matter if it is the female or male being abused, can be dealt with. I think that Slim should have taken different way of fighting back at Mitch, because it just showed that she thought abuse was ok when it was being done to someone else. Overall, this movie was a good example of self defense and protection of one's life and child, but didn't have to end the way it did. "},{"Title":"Exactly what you'd expect from the preview abused woman gets her revenge. Entertaining, but extremely predictable.","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The newest J. Lo flick is far from being a perfect film. While the plot is exactly the same as 1991's Sleeping with the Enemy (w/ Julia Roberts) and the cheese factor is turned up quite a bit (the training sequences are unintentionally hilarious), the movie is somewhat salvaged by the performances. Jennifer Lopez is a likeable heroine and Billy Campbell (The Rocketeer) and Noah Wyle (ER) give nice, creepy performances, but somehow it's still a little off. Legendary director Michael Apted (Coal Miner's Daughter) keeps the film rolling along nicely, but somehow integrated these distracting and quite silly title cards as sort of chapter markers, only they just appear in the beginning of the film. It leaves the viewer to wonder what the point of their inconsistent placement was by the end of the film. As far as entertainment value goes, it's not too bad. As long as you know what you're getting into (revenge flick), then you get what you came for. It's not one to analyze or have a long discussion about afterwards, but it's pretty engaging while you're there. It's extremely predictable, but what made you think this was going to be a clever film? It's just a popcorn flick. Nothing more, nothing less.If you're a J. Lo fan or just like to see some good ass kicking, than go for it. Other than that, there's not much too this one that hasn't been done before. You'll be OK if you wait for video on this one.  "},{"Title":"Very well put together film","Date":"8 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Enough (2002) is a well written, directed, and acted movie. Jennifer Lopez is really great as Slim, the leading role, and she was perfectly cast, I loved her and everyone one else in the cast. Juliette Lewis was good in it, she got her role well and didn't disappoint. And slims abusive husband, played by Billy Campbell, was great in his antagonistic role, he truly was threatening and menacing. The high octane action sequences were well done and not too busy to follow. The dialogue and script was good, not great, but it sufficed. The movie dies a great job at making you so emotional and really root harder than ever for Jennifer and her daughter. The film addresses domestic abuse well, and it shines a light on the very serious and disturbing issue. It's great to see a positive motherly figure fighting for her and her daughter's livelihoods, and really refusing to take it anymore. The film's logo says it perfectly everyone has a limit! The only thing I didn't care for was towards the end when slim called her friend right before the final big event, thought that was unneeded and I thought it was kinda strange. But that's my only complaint. 8/10 for Enough! "},{"Title":"The film you'll find yourself watching most of when it comes on TV","Date":"28 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If judged on the basis of a competent thriller about domestic violence and female empowerment, Michael Apted's Enough is a pretty scattershot mess of incredulous circumstances, flat characters, and questionable decisions made by said characters. If judged on the basis of a pulpy novel come to life, Enough becomes a very watchable piece of fluff, one with an impressive focus on pacing and helplessness. This is one of the few films that comes along in my queue where I am simply torn between my personal fondness for the material and the plot, but my slight disappointment with the end result.The film revolves around a Los Angeles waitress named Slim (Jennifer Lopez), who slaves away at a diner with her best friend Ginny (Juliette Lewis). One day, a man (Noah Wyle) comes in with a plan to take Slim out on a date until another customer, Mitch Hiller (Billy Campbell), reveals that he is only doing so because of a bet he made with his friend. Slim is taken by Mitch's low-key heroism and the two decide to begin dating. We see their relationship evolve into a marriage with a young daughter (Tessa Allen) in montage before we zero in after the two have been married for sometime. Mitch begins cheating on Slim with a coworker, and once Slim catches him red-handed, Mitch doesn't respond in the usual way of defending himself or claiming he has a problem. He justifies it by telling her that there are some sacrifices she needs to make being that she now has a husband who provides for her and their daughter much more than she could ever provide for just herself. When Slim retaliates, Mitch responds with a brutal punch. And so it begins.Slim is flabbergasted, but her options are dreadfully minimal. Divorce is not an option because Mitch won't let her go, running away only works for a short time, since Mitch has several friends and private investigator connections that can find her just as quickly as she can run, and her increasing time away from Mitch only helps him during the inevitable custody battle for Gracie. Slim tries everything, from inquiring the help of Ginny on several occasions, assuming a late woman's identity, to even showing up at her wealthy, estranged father's (Fred Ward) doorstep to beg for money. He gives her $12, as opposed to his usual $6, because not only does he want Slim to but herself a sandwich, he wants Gracie to have one too.If absolutely nothing else, screenwriter Nicholas Kazan (writer of Bicentennial Man) conveys Slim's helplessness pretty well here, showing just how complicated it is for women in abusive relationships. It's hard enough to survive, let alone provide, with this kind of albatross, and never does Kazan blame Slim, demean her, or disrespect her character. Say what you want about how incredulous the film gets with certain situations, particularly Slim's situation with her father and Mitch's goons having nothing better to do than meticulously follow their friends' wife's every move, but Kazan always treats his protagonist as someone with a lot of options that all, sooner or later, end in dead-ends.In addition, Kazan and Apted work well in pacing Enough, crafting a film that's frequently unsettling and methodical, as we're given time to spend with both Slim and Gracie. The trouble with this is that time showing Slim and Mitch's relationship together is so desperately limited; one scene they're meeting for the first time under a downright absurd circumstance, the very next they're married. One can infer just by logic and situational probability that Mitch had to have shown a protective or aggressive side during their time together before he hit her, so it's strange as to how Slim, a perfectly reasonable and initially hard-hearted person, would fall in love so quickly with a man she barely knew.These are certain details that are difficult to look past, and bog down Enough to where it doesn't succeed as anything other than pulpy entertainment. Even the end scene, which feels like grown ups doing their best impression of Home Alone, as slickly conceived and as satisfying as it is, feels corny and all too convenient. Once again, it's burdened by Kazan rushing to finish up the film, glossing through the methodical process of Slim's confidence building and training, to get to the credits before the two-hour mark since much of the time was spent on conjuring up suspense. While Kazan and Apted did fine work in one area of Enough, the area I initially assumed would lack, they did that part extraordinarily well and liberally and simultaneously handicapped any kind of buildup to the cause and the concluding effect/end-result. This makes the film feel significantly lopsided.In the end, I can't shake Enough off my hands as quickly and as cleanly as most thrillers. This early 2000's era brought some truly good mysteries and suspenseful films; the Final Destination franchise began, for one, and even one-off thrillers like One Hour Photo instilled an uncommonly disturbing amount of fear and dread in their audiences. Simply put, even with all the shortcomings and lopsided chronological problems considered, Enough is the kind of film that, if time is in my favor and I find it on Television about forty minutes in, I will probably watch it till the end.Starring Jennifer Lopez, Billy Campbell, Juliette Lewis, Noah Wyle, and Fred Ward. Directed by Michael Apted. "},{"Title":"This movie is an eye opener for so many women who are abused and robbed from the opportunity to enjoy life.","Date":"20 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The society nowadays is not ready to accept the fact that so many women and girls fall victims of Domestic Violence, and it is pivotal to have movies like this which show the pain and endurance of a victim. Children are victim of emotional abuse as well, and it has a long impact on their life. Unfortunately, women are trapped by the fact that they are not capable to make it on their own financially and emotionally. The reason is the prolong abuse which harms their ability to function which is the reason behind the domestic violence, is to take control over the victim. In the movie the woman is portrayed as a strong woman who had decided to faith back and be example for women who have doubt in their ability to cope and show the perpetrator how is on the other side. When women decide to take control over the situation is because the court system usually gives custody to the father because he knows how to present himself so no one can notice his sociopaths personality. Women are more emotional and this is the reason most of the time for losing the battle in court. "},{"Title":"Tense and intense","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is about a woman who finds out that her husband is not the great man he appears to be. She refuses to accept her fate as an abused housewife, and does everything she can to change her destiny.Enough wastes no time beating around the bush. Right from the beginning, we already see how abusive the cheating husband is. Slim, the determined wife, fights back. She appears helpless at first, creating much sympathy for her. She lives in threat and danger every day. There is much suspense and thrill throughout the film. As the film progress, we see the satisfying finale. I hope all spouses who are battered can stand up against the terror like Slim does. "}{"Title":"Enough(2002) is a suspenseful drama, starring Jenifer Lopez and Billy Campbell.","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `Enough' (2002) was a suspenseful thriller, directed by Michael Apted. This movie focuses on the ideals of femininity and female empowerment.  Slim (Jennifer Lopez) falls in love with a charismatic and wealthy contractor named Mitch (Billy Campbell).  Things seem to be going well for Slim, they have a nice house, a loving relationship, and a baby girl named Gracie (Tessa Allen), then things go sour.  Slim finds out that Mitch has been cheating on her, and decides to address the issue.  This does nothing except awaken the abusive beast that has been hidden inside of Mitch.  Slim, intolerable of his behavior decides to take Gracie and flee to Michigan. However, little does Slim know that Mitch is an obsessive stalker and her life will never be the same.  Tired of living in fear and danger, Slim decides to fight back in what becomes a suspenseful and crowd-pleasing ending.This movie reproduces the existing stereotype of the `typical female'.  In the beginning of the movie, Slim is working as a waitress and the director focuses on her gestures i.e. smiling, crossing legs.  This slowly changes throughout the movie as she becomes more and more aggressive.  Then, in the end of the film this stereotype is broken as Slim breaks out of this mold. This can also been seen in `Erin Brockovich' and `The Other Sister'.Another thing to observe while viewing this film is the panoptical view placed on Slim.  Throughout the film the camera does an excellent job of showing how Slim is always being watched and gives the viewer the sense that they are the ones being watched and are the ones stalking Slim.The supporting cast includes Slim's best friend, Ginny played by Juliette Lewis (Old School, 2003), Dan Futterman (Urbania, 2000) as Slim's ex-boyfriend, Joe, and Mitch's partner Robbie, Noah Wyle (Donnie Darko, 2001). "},{"Title":"Not bad!","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***possible minor spoilers***I'm not a big fan of Ms. J.Lo; she's not exactly the consummate actress. But she is awfully easy on the eyes -- definitely miscast here in the sense that her character is supposed to be a Plain Jane (which she definitely is not). But the role isn't too demanding, and the movie isn't intended, I think, to be particularly intellectually stimulating.  It's predictable, yes; it's an average movie with pretty people, car chases, lots of tension, hand-to-hand fighting, and a happy ending. Sit down and eat your popcorn and enjoy.The theme of spousal abuse is a dark one and I was glad to see it (relatively) frankly addressed.  Slim's transformation from frightened abused little wife to butt-kicking protector of her child was a little speedy but admirable nonetheless; there are real-life abused women who need to find that strength in themselves (not necessarily to hunt down and kill the abusers, but to leave them and have the strength to stay away), and though it's presented in a typically trite Hollywood manner, the truth behind it is still important.Kudos to little Tessa Allen (Gracie), who made me once again believe that there is some real talent in the child-actor pool of the universe.  Her scowling annoyance in the car (on the way to call Mitch's mom) was just precious! Here's hoping that the little cutie's TV career doesn't keep her from shining on the big screen again!All in all, a very enjoyable movie, and I'm glad I sat down and gave it a chance. "},{"Title":"Seeing a bad guy get what he deserves...","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've just read a whole bunch of reviews on Enough and feel like saying, Lighten up you guys! Sure, wife abuse is terrible. Maybe because I don't see lots of those beat-'em-up flicks, this one was fun to see the bad guy get what was coming to him. If I try to tear it all apart and find all the faults I can, I still think its a good thriller. I watched it twice (from Cleanfilms.com), the second time with my wife. If you don't already hate J Lo (I haven't seen her in anything except Salena.) and want to be entertained, I'd rent it. Mind you, I've only seen the cleaned up version, but the fight at the end was great. "},{"Title":"critical topic","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Slim, a waitress, had found out that her husband Mitch, an engineer, got an affair with another woman. So she left him because he had beaten her but he followed her because he wanted his daughter Gracie back. In the beginning the story plays in LA and later they move from town to town to escape her husband. J.Lo's acting wasn't breathtaking but nevertheless the fight scenes were very good. The topic of the movie is a critical one because it is never talked about in public. Honestly, we'd give this film 5 out of 10.E4 Thomas-Mann-Oberschule Berlin Jacqueline, Stefanie, Izabella "},{"Title":"love don't cost a thing","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  well, I had two movies to choose signs or enough - instead of watching stupid aliens and Mel Gibson running for some more money my hormones told me to try Jennifer Lopez! and I'm not a big fan of her. not at all. but this movie kicked ass!don't want to tell u the whole story, it's only about an ordinary lovely girl falling naively in love with a jerk which is a total moron. but this moron is very delinquent and beats her up, if she speaks up her mind. so, she (and her daughter) run away from him. trying a new life, new identity and so on. / at this point it has similarities with the movie sleeping with the enemy. - good idea, but nothing new.but then, miss Lopez realizes, she doesn't have any chance, because money rules the world and her enemy has a lot of it. revenge is her only hope - fight fire with fire. and that's the nice part of the movie.really thrilling story, but there are a few stuff I missed / didn't understand. for example at the beginning it started as a diary - always a topic of the current situation, but it stopped at the very beginning. to bad, because that has some real good style! - there are few other questions, which are open. - well, I recommend you the picture, if you like those real-life-stories with a sense of Hollywood. I liked it. "},{"Title":"ENOUGH is a movie for guys who like movies!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ENOUGH, is no doubt, the most gripping and enthralling movie to come along since I ACCUSE MY PARENTS. J. Lo is in an abusive relationship. Wherever she goes her husband follows until she decides he's got to die. This must have been a very challenging role for her, since we all know how dedicated and long-term she is in real life when it comes to her marriages. As I told all, well actually my one friend, the movie starts off very weak but really deepens somewhere in the middle. Basically there was not ENOUGH of this movie to satisfy me! I broke down when the ending credits rolled because I wanted to see what was next. I am rallying for a sequel. For lack of a better name, I want it to be called ENOUGH 2. I think men ESPECIALLY will love this movie. "},{"Title":"If you like action and suspense, this should do it for you.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ENOUGH  **__  Drama/Thriller Jennifer Lopez, Bill Campbell, Tessa AllenA woman finds herself in an abusive marriage and tries to escape.But her husband won't let her leave, and seems always to be one step ahead of her. Finally she figures out what she has to do. In some ways, this reminds me of a Rocky movie. The plot is a bit hard to swallow, but if you like action and suspense, this should do it for you.  "},{"Title":"You'll want more of ENOUGH","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez plays a happy go lucky waitress named Slim, who thinks she has found a prince charming named Mitch(Bill Campbell), she later marries him, and has a daughter. But she soon discovers that her prince charming is really a psychopathic abusive man. She soon takes her daughter and flees from him. But he is one step behind her. Slim soon discovers that in order to get her and her daughters life back, she must comfront him head on. If the premise sounds familar that this story was copyied a little from Sleeping with the Enemy. But this story was good. Great performances by Jennifer Lopez and Bill Campbell, It had great tension, and great suspence. It will keep you on the edge of your seat. Bill Campbell should be wearing a sign on him saying I am the Boogyman. He was good at being bad, you just did not like him. He's probably a nice guy in real life, but when the camera was rolling, he was the bad guy. And Jennifer Lopez is good has always. She brings any roles she plays to life. "},{"Title":"Lifetime on steroids","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Waitress Slim (Jennifer Lopez) falls for Mitch (Billy Campbell) and marries him. They have a child together. He's a psychopath and starts beating on her. She runs away with help from her friends. Only Mitch is relentless.This is a relentlessly Lifetime movie. There isn't any motivation other than these are psychos. There's a reason why the courtship and much of their relationship is skipped over. A careful examination is never in the cards here.Then the movie goes Rambo. Director Michael Apted is trying to find a way out. It goes into a convoluted idea of Self Defense. If she was going to kill him anyways, why would she go through all the hand to hand. It was maybe a 5 for most of the way, but the ending is way too ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Nevermind","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well, I start this review by stating that first scenes are quite cliché and unwell done, making you feel like it's just another dumb Hollywood story. It gets even worse when we have no develop of the main couple's relationship; they meet, kiss, marry and she get slapped. It is hard to believe that such a clumsy movie could become more interesting after some while-- and thank god it eventually did. Jennifer Lopez's character having fighting classes and trying to get rid of her monster ex husband is a good time in this wrecked plot, which delivered an euphoric feeling to the spectator-- albeit being too similar to Double Jeopardy final scene. This isn't an example of a great movie, but entertains for a while if you're able to ignore clichés and eventual bad acting. "}{"Title":"Jlo's best film!!!","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" To me this has to be Jennifer's best film, she acted so well and is so underrated which is a shame really because I think that she is really talented and misunderstood.Jennifer meets a man and get married, then has a child her husband turns violent, she tries to escape him but he always finds her in the end, the only way to escape him was to confront him, the movie does sort of drag on a bit and Jennifer does not suit that short hair of hers.The ending was very well done i think, she manages to confront him and kill him in the end, it is a real shame that this film did not do as well in the box office cause i think it had a lot of potential and like i said before Jennifer did a great job in this film. the little girl who plays her daughter is a really good actress too. This is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Bullies and wife-beaters will HATE this movie","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's not 'Un Chien Andalou', but as a thriller, very enjoyable. It's also does a nice job of showing, just a little, how much training a woman that small would need to defeat an untrained male who was that much bigger. (I was a kung fu instructor, a couple years back.) This movie will scare the hell out of some guys, of course, but nobody worth worrying about.Her husband is rather a stereptype of an abusive husband, but actually, that's not a bad thing in this case. He excuses all his own behaviour. More to the point though, the tension builds til the climax, and that's the definition of a thriller. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it!","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" MOSTLY NO SPOILERS.. WILL PUT SPOILERS AT END AFTER WARNINGSo.. I have a problem.. I don't think psychologists have come up with a name for it.. but I have a serious problem watching movies I haven't seen before.. guess I'm afraid of being disappointed LOL.. so it's rare that I can get myself to watch a movie I haven't already seen.. I always gravitate toward the tried and true LOL... But last night I rented and watched this movie.. I guess the subject matter overcame my usual hesitation.. I'm a sucker for movies like this, and about these kinds of topics... won't be long until I watch Sleeping with the Enemy again, probably.. as the other commenter (maybe more than one) mentioned, I certainly didn't think it was a rip-off of Sleeping with the ENemy I see them as very different movies.. After watching it, the movie that popped into my head was eye for an eye.. not Sleeping... Anyway, I thought it was great.... I love movies where women/girls take charge of the situation and refuse to be victims.. Anyway, recommend this movie to people who like movies about women who stand up for themselves, or know how to kick bum... or just a good suspense thriller..So, now I have one more to add to my comfort zone list of tried and true movies I feel comfortable renting LOL..Oh.. LOL.. I find it HILARIOUS that the trivia on this page said the role was originally planned for Sandra Bullock... for some reason I couldn't quit thinking of Bullock the entire time I watched it.. Lopez's voice, face, everything reminded me so much of Bullock in this movie.. maybe I'm crazy.. but I was like WOW... POSSIBLY kinda a pity that Bullock didn't do this movie.. she's the best.. Kinda would like to see what she could have done with this role.. but Lopez did a fine job... fine job..SPOILER WARNING I really enjoyed it.. I see it as very similar to Eye for an Eye because I was like YESS!!!! That chick was BRILLIANT!! How perfectly she planned it.. I loved it..So the ending was my favorite part, for sure, but the whole thing was more than watchable and well done. "},{"Title":"I'd have to say Enough already","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I normally enjoy these type of plots for some reason. It's a guilty pleasure of mine I must admit. I do like the whole boyfriend/girlfriend goes crazy on girlfriend/boyfriend type of stories. But this was a little stupid than what I usually expect. See, the normal thing to do when a spouse is abusive and you fear for your child's life is to call the police. Not run away from your problems. If you knew that your husband was a psychopath and a stalker, would you just run? Jennifer Lopez's acting isn't bad in the film. I've never really thought she was a great actress to begin with. She is pretty convincing in the film though. The movie isn't bad, but the plot was just unrealistic. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Another GREAT Movie Jennifer Has Done!!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enough Was certainly a thriller. I saw it in theaters May 24th of this year, and I was hooked. I loved it. AND BTW, the training took about 5months in real life, but SINCE it is a MOVIE, let's NOT forget it's JUST A movie, she look lesser time. Because IF it was to be 5months on the show, then we would have had to watch her training more right? And well, that wasn't really necessary. I wanted to see the WOMAN beatin the HELL-O out the GUY already! Go J LO *AHEM* ANYWAY! Also, Billy Campbell was GREAT GREAT! And Tessa Allen, the daughter, NOW thats a GREAT little actress, she was so adorable! But its a MUST SEE FILM if you like to see A**e kickin, hot guys, and if you like Mz J to tha LO HELLO;) And cars running the roads half the time, and just EDGE Seatings LOL Go and rent it!!! I have seen it 3 times already, and i always enjoy seeing it over. It still shocks me!! Some people need to like MOVIES more, MOVIES are going to be all different, and if you like this one, then Rock ON. I give Enough a 11 out of 1-10 Thats how GREAT this movie is!! Gurls, get out there and take Krav Maga!!! I think thats what its called, Um Jennifer a little help on this one! Gurl, im coming to those classes dont worry!! God BlessXOXOpiece a cake piece a pie "},{"Title":"A knockout","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez plays an abused woman who simply won't take it anymore. She knows how to show her tough side and i cheered when she finally gave that Rat what he got coming to him. If this is one film to to keep you on the edge of your seat,this is it. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A great crowd pleaseing movie that is better than what I thought it would be","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first the trailer for Enough I thought the film might be a fake Sleeping With The Enemy in retrospec the film is that but Enough is more of a crowd pleasing film than anything. Jennifer Lopez carries the movie as Slim an abused wife who decides to fight back. Lopez gives one of her best performances since The Cell. Micheal Apted shows J-LO's beauty as a sweet innocent waitress, then a loving/battered housewife to a woman who has had Enough . Billy Campbell gives one of the best villians performances of the year as the husband and Noah Wyle is great as a supporting villian. Juillete Lewis, Dan Futtermen and Tessa Allen as Slim's daughter all give good performances also. Don't get me wrong the film is no Oscar picture but it sets out to please a crowd and that what it does. I give it *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Enough","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jennifer Lopez is outstanding in this movie as well as her others; the character, the courage, the strength emotionally and physically, and songs from her as well really added a nice touch. The other reason why I enjoyed the movie is because Jennifer's role is similar to one of my clients situation along with another film and has given her some motivation to try and let go of her traumatic past to move forward in life to live, or live in the past and die slowly from a broken heart. Jennifer's message is to the public in my own opinion is that; women don't have to live like that, and that you would do almost anything to protect your child or children, and other scenes as well especially the police dept. scene, and she doesn't take any crap from anyone especially from men. Outstanding ending of Enough she wants to kill him but she doesn't have it in her, she is not a killer, but then she sees mental images of her daughter being thrown on the floor, and with one powerful kick he is history, and she can now have a free and peaceful life with her daughter. I pray for my client that she will let go of the past and move forward with her life, she has so much to offer to everyone.Best regards, Robert D. Tison, Personal manager, and Bodyguard "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oh yeah! Finally! A movie about an abused wife who takes SMART action in dealing with her abusive, stalking husband. I was expecting the usual movie of a beaten, scared, victim here but got a courageous desperate woman instead! I don't understand some of the comments about this movie. ***************Spoiler*********Warning****************** Some commented that she shouldn't have taken the action that she did. After talking with an attorney, she found out there was nothing she could do legally through the courts. What else could she do? The only thing she could do! Get trained to defend herself and have it out with him...it was self-defense!!! Why are women supposed to just stay the victim and live the rest of their lives in fear?! Her husband was a jerk and thought he could have his cake and eat it too!Great job Jennifer Lopez! I was so into this toward the end, that I probably looked like a guy watching the super bowl when his team is winning! You go girl! "},{"Title":"Please Stop! I've Had Enough!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! What a truly awful movie. I mean this was horrid at horrid's worst. The story was crappy, the acting was crappy, the wigs were crappy, the camera work was crappy. Common theme of the movie? Crappy! Jennifer Lopez in her typical no talent fashion, attempts to portray a woman that is abused by her rich husband. Poor J Lo, although, the guy might have been mad at her because she was so awful to do a scene with? Well, she eventually breaks away from this really bad guy and learns karate. Uhhh, yeah, really, that is what she does. Uhhh, everything is going to be alright in the end. You know, on a related subject. People are all saying what a really bad movie Gigli was (another J-Lo vehicle). However, this rancid piece of garbage was worse. Heck, it even took Noah Wylie, who was riding high off of his performance in Donnie Darko, and placed him in the role of a complete joke. Putrid movie! I am sickened just talking about this. "}{"Title":"Just what a movie needs!!!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best J. Lo. movie i have seen! It is a movie that has to do with real family issues that can happen. It has action, drama, and a girl who can really kick some butt and that is what mostly every movie should have. 3 cheers for Enough! Hip Hip Horray, hip hip horray, hip hip horray!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of J-Lo's best...","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I felt that this movie was one of the best that I've seen in a long time and also one of the best done by J-Lo in her career. J-Lo made me feel that any woman can stand up for herself under any circumstance. It may be a movie more heartfelt by women, but can definitely show men that women are strong too. All in all, it was a great movie that can be watched by all!!  "},{"Title":"Hypocrisy","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay, so violence is bad when it is spouse abuse...but not when the spouse is the woman? Reverse the roles in the final scene and it's the same kind of verbal and physical abuse we're supposed to be so appalled by that we excuse murder.Um, no.Having the wife go to the husband with the intent to kill him is premeditated murder, no matter how slimy he is. If the makers of this movie and wanted to truly portray self defense they should have had the husband pursue the wife (as is common in real life).Instead we get a scene where the audience is supposedly going to cheer when it is the woman doing the premeditated violence.Who thinks like this? "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, very suspensefull","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so good, Jennifer Lopez is such a great actress and she really showed it in this movie. I went to the special sneak preview of Enough and was very impressed. Enough is not an ordinary J.lo movie. Usually her movies are funny(The wedding planner) or Drama (Angel Eyes) but this was really really scary and suspenseful. I think it was more suspenseful then J.lo's horror movie The Cell. What you see on the coming attractions is no were near able to compare to the horror in this film. Some other things about the movie was that Noah Whyle (Dr. Carter on ER) And Julliette Lewis (From Dusk till Dawn)both had some really important parts. So if your looking to see a suspenseful, action pack movies- see Enough. ) "},{"Title":"That Noah Wyle is really good!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez is chased by abusive husband, so she learns martial arts and fights back.  Why she didn't just buy a gun is one of the many questions that could be asked about this film, but then that wouldn't give the target audience what it wanted.  And judging by the audience reaction, they REALLY got what they wanted.Anyone looking for a serious depiction of spousal abuse would be better off elsewhere.  Originality is also not a commodity here.  The writer of Sleeping With the Enemy should get some sort of credit on this thing. However, this movie is proof that any plot with dramatic potential can be made into a good movie if all involved do their jobs.  The result is a surprisingly rousing thriller, which would probably be offensive were it not for the fact that it is simply very well-made.  Dialogue is strong, direction effective, and the tech credits snappy.  Jennifer Lopez may never be Meryl Streep, but she makes a good heroine.  Special credit must go to Mr. Campbell for taking on an EXTREMELY risky part.And finally, who would have guessed, Noah Wyle makes a really good sleazebag!  I had no idea he had it in him.  I just hope he gets a bigger part next time.  "},{"Title":"Tense and enjoyable","Date":"7 November 2009","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure why some viewers compare this with Sleeping with the Enemy, although there are some similarities, however small.This is a a story that starts with a fairy-tale wedding, then a birth and all seems to go well. But then Slim finds out that her husband is seeing someone else. Of course, he reassures her that she's the only one that matters.Then, when physical abuse starts, you know she's got to get out. Which she does, with some difficulty. And she starts to run from place to place, always knowing he's somehow tracking her.The part I most enjoyed was seeing Noah Wyle play a creepy guy, so different from the roles he usually plays.And then the end, with Slim getting martial arts training and sneaking into his home to prepare to finish him, which she does by happenstance. I don't usually enjoy that type of violence, but was happy to see a woman stand up for herself and her child.Enjoyed it a lot! "},{"Title":"Much much better than expected.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Anyone who saw the trailer of Enough would have easily guessed the whole plot and pre-rated it as a no more than 1 and a half star better- made-for-TV movie. I for one, couldn't help laughing at the idea of having J Lo practising martial art to avenge the psychotic husband (Jennifer Jason Leigh would have been a better choice).After watching however, I must admit that it was unexpectedly well made, powerful and entertaining. We enjoyed every minute of it.Certainly, there were many irrational loopholes to catch without any effort. ie Why J Lo looked much slimmer after married especially when she changed her name from Slim (to hide her identity) and 5 time more attractive than the waitress who was courted some  5 year earlier? Why a sudden change of personality of Mitch (her husband)?  (he preferred the chubby version, perhaps.)  How possible that his police friend never showed up during her 4-5 years of happy marriage and didn't attend such big glamourous wedding?Ignore all those and you'll find Enough worth every cent of the ticket.I give it 3 stars. "},{"Title":"ENOUGH of This Garbage.","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Enough (2002) Dir Michael Apted / Cast Jennifer Lopez, Billy Campbell, Juliette Lewis, Dan Futterman, Fred Ward Manipulating bag of trash about feminine revenge. It regards being pushed to the limit and stars Jennifer Lopez as a waitress who meets her future husband. This is heaped upon quickly with corny subtitles and no real development. When she catches him cheating on her he reacts by beating the sh*t out of her. It is never explained why he becomes abusive. With assistance from co-workers she flees with her daughter making narrow contact with his henchmen before she is forced to react with a laughable case of self defense. About as despicable as Double Jeopardy or I Spit on Your Grave with director Michael Apted crossing serious issues with entertainment. This is quite a reduction for the guy who made Coal Miner's Daughter. Lopez and Billy Campbell look dumb-ass foolish in their juvenile school boy brawl, and Juliette Lewis and Dan Futterman make wasted appearances that they will not likely brag about at any Hollywood party. Fred Ward plays Lopez's father and despite tensions between the two he gives her assistance. This is the kind of corrupt manipulative bullshit that should be placed on the pavement and bashed to pieces with several baseball bats. The message is corrupted to the point where I'd had enough. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Premeditated murder is cool?","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I knew someone who liked to say An eye for an eye? A HEAD for an eye. Did he write this screenplay? It's like someone accidentally bumps you and you shoot them dead! But first you mash their face up a lot before you kill them, to maximize their pain and your lust for cruelty. People say, what about his domestic violence against her? Well, what about her's against him? I guess because he cheated, he deserved to be murdered in the first degree? This movie says our criminal justice system is worthless, essentially non-existent. It says the same for our system of social workers and shelters. Other than being a violent Lifetime-type movie made for vicarious thrills of seeing other people getting it, it does a disservice to abused people. Since the only solution is 1st degree murder, since nearly all people won't do this, and the social safety net is said to be worthless, an abused person will be left feeling helpless. "},{"Title":"A Preposterous Action Revenge Fantasy","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Domestic violence is a serious topic that deserves a better platform than this crazy combination of domestic drama and crime thriller. Rather than deal with the realistic situations and consequences that abuse entails, it plunges off the deep end into an unrealistic, over-the-top fantasy of a poor little defenseless wife and mother abused by her suddenly psycho husband finding the only solution to her marriage problems is to become a Hollywood-style undercover martial arts expert bent on framing her husband for plotting her murder and killing him in self-defense.Egad!Even a mediocre drama where the predictable plot elements seen in endless Lindsay Wagner/Meredith Baxter (Birney)/Lifetime movies playing out the emotional trauma of abuse (the lack of self-worth; the seemingly endless legal proceedings; the need to restore emotional health) would have been better. Instead, this movie ends with an unbelievable turn into a super hero/super villain knock-down drag-out fight.There are a lot of other reviews that buy into the vigilante revenge is its own reward 'cause everything works out in the end plot, but be forewarned that the many plot holes, poor decisions and ludicrous actions (the nighttime sneaking out sequence is just dumb) make it difficult for the more discerning viewer to overlook the flaws. It's not so awful to enjoy on a so-bad-it's-good level but it's not really got the right movie slickness to forgive the terrible parts either. "}{"Title":"A decent J.Lo flick","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In the film Enough, a young waitress, Slim(Jennifer Lopez), marries the seemingly ideal husband, Mitch Hiller (Billy Campbell. However after their first child is born his true colors are shown forcing Slim to flee with their daughter. This film basically is a tale of a cat and mouse chase between an abusive husband and a distraught mother. This movie started off good with good acting from Jennifer Lopez and a good performance from Billy Campbell making him seem like the perfect husband. However, this film did have many gaps. For example the scene where Mitch and Slim buy their first house is just silly. Billy Campbell literally walks up to the owner hands him a check and talks him into selling it. Also the movie had a self defense theme however the film was basically made up of Slim running from Mitch, hiding with a friend, being found by Mitch and so on. Only for fifteen minutes did they focus on her training for self defense. Overall this movie was more good then bad, however its sloppy structure and believability lands it at a six. I would recommend it to those that do not try to analyze it to deeply because these viewers will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Well, I got what I was expecting...","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We like thrillers. We especially like thrillers if they end with the clear bad guy being killed by the clear good guy, and it's good if the good guy is so good that we can't bear the thought of him/her dying, and the bad guy is so bad that we can't bear the thought of him/her surviving. Oh yes, we like contrasts like that. We are quite easy to please, aren't we? Apparently not, because we've grown accustomed to that kind of thriller, so now we need thrillers to be empowering, too... and that is the birth of this film. This film is about an abused wife who won't just take the abuse laying down... at first, she tries to run from her husband, but she ends up deciding to do what we've waited for her to do for the entire film... fight back. Yes, instead of going to the authorities or trying to reason with him; fighting back. Respond with force. Fight fire with fire. Sure, why not. If it gives beaten down women courage, why not. The plot is decent enough, and it only feels a little like you've seen it done before, and done better. The pacing is fair... if you want the whole thing, it keeps stuff happening and such. Honestly, I just watched it to see Lopez kick butt. It's fairly see-through and obvious... I was never in doubt of what would happen or how the current scene would end. Acting is OK. Campbell shows how good of an actor he is, again. Lopez proves once and for all that she should never have tried to expand her career beyond singing(maybe not even that). The action is decent. The cinematography is hurt by the seemingly controllable desire to overuse panning to the extreme. As a thriller, it's average. As an empowering film, it's fine. As a quality product, it's a joke. What the heck was the point of Noah Wyle's character? Was there any? I recommend this to fans of empowering films and/or Jennifer Lopez. Everyone else should only see it if they're really nuts about watching Lopez beat up a guy. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Enough really is enough (spoilers throughout)","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Enough is really just Sleeping With the Enemy with an 'empowered' Latino woman in the central role instead of wide-mouthed shriekster. And by empowered, I mean a woman who instead of doing the sensible, ordinary, common sense thing of handing her husband to the police, decides to become a female James Bond and lays the smack down on her husband's candyass. Of course, J-Lo has her reasons for this, but none of the reasons make any sense. According to her, she can't go to the police because her husband is powerful. Well, he owns a construction company &#150; he's hardly the President of the United States. Another reason is that he has powerful connections. Well, he has one (one!) friend in the police force. Yeah, judges will be quaking in their boots and the entire police force will be moved to such an extent that they'll close ranks and engage in a nationwide conspiracy because one copper has a mate who doesn't like his wife. And another reason is that she believes that her husband will win custody of her child.This last reason is the most ridiculous. There's one scene where her husband threatens her best friend, her 'dad' (he's not her biological father, but he brought her up) and another friend&#133;with a gun! What judge, with three solid witnesses to back her up, would hand the kid over to the husband? Answer no judge in the world. And the husband doesn't make any sense either. When he's threatening everyone with a gun, he says that he can get away with killing them. He says he'll pretend it was dark. So he's going to pretend that he killed his wife's best friend, his wife's 'father' and another bloke purely by accident? But his wife was there too, as well as his child, so to get away with this master plan, he'd have to kill them too. I know there are a lot of accidental gun deaths in America, but that's kind of stretching things.But it wasn't meant to be this way. This was meant to be a dream marriage. I mean, there you are, a tough but kind waitress (she helps babies!) who doesn't believe in giving her real name to customers (even though nothing in her past suggests that she should be wary of men &#150; her ex is an obscenely decent guy) and you meet a guy who threatens another guy. What do you do? Why, you marry him of course! So in five seconds she's married. Then she has a kid. But then, when the kid is about four years old, the husband decides to become a psychopath. Is it possible to hide your psychosis from your spouse for half a decade? Well, we are talking about J-Lo here. All she wants to do is have some fun! (As the title music illustrates) She certainly doesn't pay attention to her husband's mental state. She's just content that she can give up being a waitress and become a fat, lazy, wealthy soccer mom. Life is good&#133;until hubbie starts beating her. Oh, the sympathy that comes gushing forth as we immerse ourselves in her plight. Isn't it terrible to have a husband that no longer wants to spend any time with you? Isn't it terrible that you're absolutely loaded? Most women would kill for that! I'm being facetious, but the moronic way that the film trivialises domestic abuse and serves it up as bottom grade entertainment deserves nothing but contempt.And how can I feel sympathy for J-Lo's character? She's irredeemably stupid (that she's heard of Finnegan's Wake is hilariously far-fetched). Just take the way she tries to leave her husband. She attempts to leave in the middle of the night, while he's asleep next to her. Why didn't she leave while he was at work, or while he was having sex with one of his tarts? Because the character's stupid, and because the film's stupid. It's just a clichéd attempt to try and build tension. And isn't it awfully convenient that J-Lo's real dad is fabulously wealthy? I'm sure most abused women have one of those lurking around somewhere. But J-Lo on the run is really an excuse for her to wear lots of wigs and so she can kit herself out in poor-chic outfits. Look at how her husband has debased her.And then there's the kid. What a sickeningly cute moppet she is. Really, they must have picked the most annoying, irritating, high-pitched kid they could find. Why the husband would want custody of her, I don't know. He should be glad she's gone. But the worst kid moments are during the car chase. She continually screams Mommy! at the top of her lungs. It's intolerable. And the kid does look genuinely scared. I don't know what they did to get her reactions, but they worked. Perhaps they played her J-Lo's latest album&#133; The worst thing of all though is the ending. In the space of a few martial arts lessons, she goes from being an ex-waitress to Jane Bond. All of a sudden she can plant traps, disable electronic equipment and kick ass. Yeah, as if I believe a waitress, after a handful of lessons, can kick the ass of a man twice her size. It's stupid. As is her reasoning. After breaking into his house she thinks she can plead self-defence. Oh, and she plants letters in his drawers so that she can set him up for something or other. Only she tells him. D'oh! Now he can burn the letters that she managed to get his fingerprints on. If only hubbie could beat her up. But now he can't. He's lost the power. So J-Lo kills him. What garbage.(By the way, the film also includes helpful captions like 'Hey' and 'How They Met' just in case you're too stupid to follow what's going on.) "},{"Title":"Dumb","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***contains possible spoilers*** I saw this movie a couple of days ago at a dollar movie theatre. I guess it was worth a dollar to watch, but I couldn't see spending much more than that to see it. Some other posts have said that Jennifer Lopez is a bad actress, I disagree, I think she proved her acting chops in Out of Sight, but she has'nt done anything to challenge herself since then. This movie was just pretty dumb, bad script, some of the lines the actors are required to say are just breathtakingly ridiculous. To be honest, I almost got up and left, but after I saw Billy Campbell punch Jennifer Lopez, I did want to stay until the end to see him get his butt kicked. Her character is lucky enough to have a very rich long lost daddy to bankroll her once she goes on the run. I think we were supposed to think his character was charming, but the truth of the matter is that he seemed like an older version of the Billy Campbell character. Once J-Lo goes on the run, she cuts her hair short, which we all know completely changes your appearance. At one point she has to escape again, and throws on a wig, which makes her look pretty much exactly like she did before she cut her hair. I could go on, but why bother, for some people just watching an abused wife beat the hell out of her abuser is enough for them to want to see this movie, and if thats the only thing that matters to you, and plot and dialog, and acting are of no concern then by all means watch this movie, but if those things do matter to you, then you should skip it. "},{"Title":"A badly-written, badly-acted celebration of vindictive violence","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The opening scenes of Enough seem more like a romantic comedy than a thriller. Attractive waitress Slim (presumably a nickname, although we never find out what her real name is) meets the handsome, wealthy Mitch and romance blossoms. They marry, move into a big house and have a kid. Then the tone abruptly changes. Slim discovers that Mitch is cheating on her. When she complains, he turns violent and abusive, and she tries to leave him. Eventually she manages to escape and moves with her young daughter to another part of the country where she lives under a false name. Mitch, however, is not willing to let her go and uses his financial resources to track her down.Sounds familiar? The basic plot is derived from another thriller from about a decade earlier, Sleeping with the Enemy. In that film Julia Roberts played the abused wife of a wealthy, successful man who managed to escape and move to another part of the country where she lived under a false name. In that film too her husband was not willing to let her go and used his financial resources to track her down.The plot of Sleeping with the Enemy might seem like the sort of thing one would associate with an issue of the month TV movie about spousal violence. What raises that film above the level of the commonplace is the way the theme is handled. Enough, by contrast, fails to rise above the level of the commonplace; indeed, it frequently falls below it. The film-makers have evidently ignored the first rule of successful plagiarism make sure that your film is better than, or at least as good as, the one it is modelled on.There are a number of reasons for this. The first is that, frankly, J-Lo is no J-Ro. Roberts' performance in Sleeping with the Enemy is one of her best, showing her character Laura as beautiful but vulnerable and passive in the early scenes and maturing in the later ones into a strong, confident woman, unafraid to take control of her life. Jennifer Lopez had given a sensitive and well-judged performance in her previous film, Angel Eyes, but in Enough she is much weaker. She is at times so softly spoken as to be almost inaudible (a problem I have noticed in other films of hers) and brings very little emotional depth to her character. Patrick Bergin was much better as Laura's husband Martin, a creepily obsessive control freak, than is the forgettable Billy Williams as Mitch.There are one or two differences between the plots of the two films. Laura had no children and faked her own death, something Slim does not do. The most important difference comes in the final scenes. Slim was herself an illegitimate child and has long been estranged from her wealthy father Jupiter, played by Fred Ward as an over-the-top caricature of the arrogant, heartless rich man. (It is unclear whether Jupiter is a nickname or a genuine Christian name, but it seems appropriate enough, as he clearly thinks of himself as King of the gods). Eventually, however, she manages to win him round, and he promises to help her. This help takes the form of paying for her to have tuition in the martial arts, following which she tracks Mitch down to take revenge on him. In Sleeping with the Enemy Laura had no thoughts of revenge- she only wanted to escape from Martin- but even this twist is not an original one. There is a very similar plot development in Double Jeopardy, another thriller about a woman seeking bloody revenge on the husband who has wronged her.The film was advertised under the tag line Self defence isn't murder. This is an accurate statement of the law, but what Slim sets out to do at the end of the film would not come within the legal definition of self defence; one may only kill in self-defence if one is in immediate mortal danger from the person killed. (Double Jeopardy took a similarly cavalier attitude to legal issues). Slim intends first to humiliate Mitch and then to kill him in cold blood for the sake of revenge, something which would leave herself open to a murder charge. It is never convincingly explained why Slim does not, much earlier in the action, complain to the police about Mitch or consult a lawyer about obtaining an injunction against him. The answer, presumably, is that if she had done either of those things there wouldn't have been a film.I was disappointed to see that the film was directed by Michael Apted, as in the past he has been responsible for films as good as Nell or Gorillas in the Mist. Certainly, much of his output has consisted of routine thrillers like Gorky Park or Extreme Measures, but at least those films were competently made and, on their own level, enjoyable. Enough, a badly-written, badly-acted celebration of vindictive violence, lacks even their basic competence. 3/10 "},{"Title":"CRAP","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Crap.. stick to Sleeping with the Enemy. There's better acting and a good plot in Sleeping with the Enemy.Enough seemed to move so quickly and it doesn't really give the viewer a sense of a full story. Their meeting, marriage and everything else happened so fast.It was liberating to see Slim (Jennifer Lopez) beat her abusive ex-husband to a pulp but the story lacks and is unrealistic. I can't even imagine trashy Jennifer Lopez trying to pass as a suburbanite named Erin Shleeter. (?#@) "},{"Title":"J-Lo's Revenge!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   I enjoyed Enough for about the first two-thirds and then the story became ludicrous. Jennifer Lopez plays Slim a waitress who meets her dream man Mitch (Bill Campbell) in the diner where she works as he comes to her rescue against a surly customer. Turns out Mitch is loaded and they set up shop in an upscale home complete with a Mercedes SUV in the driveway. She has everything until one day she discovers that Mitch is has been cheating on her. When she protests, Mitch beats her. Afraid of losing her daughter Gracie (the adorable Tessa Allen), she refuses to call in the police and runs away with the child. Mitch meanwhile has cut off all of her bank accounts and credit cards. She then turns to her long lost father, a character called Jupiter (Fred Ward) for help. He refuses and she flees to her ex-boyfriend Robbie (Noah Wyle) for protection. Mitch traces her there and sends a goon squad to his apartment to find her. Jupiter, who by the way, also conveniently has deep pockets is visited by the same goons and then decides to help his daughter financially. This allows her to flee to Michigan and establish a new identity. When Mitch tracks her down once again, Slim decides enough is enough and takes the offensive. This is where the movie breaks down. We are ask to believe that Slim acquires all of the necessary skills, expertise and know-how to enable her to face her abusive husband in a period of just one month. Remember that Slim was merely a helpless and battered housewife before. It just doesn't fly. The ending is predictable and unrealistic. J-Lo to her credit gives one of her better performances as the lead character. She has a couple of good scenes where she breaks down to her trusted friend Ginny (Juliette Lewis) over her dilemma. Campbell is also good as the despicable wife beater. Lewis is totally wasted as the trusty friend and is given little to do. Little Tessa Allen is an absolute little sweetheart as Gracie and performs her scenes like a seasoned pro. It was good to see Fred Ward again although much is left unexplained about his character and his errant ways. J-Lo also displays a rather pleasant singing voice over the end credits, singing a more traditional song rather than that loud MTV style music she usually sings.  Three quarters of a good movie. "},{"Title":"One Of The Silliest Movies I've Seen In A Long Time","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just didn't buy this movie. Not for a second. Not from the very beginning. The best thing I can say for this movie is that I laughed a lot. Unfortunately, it's billed as a Drama/Thriller/Action movie. More precisely, it's sad.The plot ranges from mildly suspenseful (the odd time) to silly (most of the time) to downright ridiculous (the rest of the time.) I'm not saying that women aren't sometimes beaten up by their husbands and have to run for their lives. Unfortunately it does happen. But not like this. It's hard to believe that Slim (Jennifer Lopez) never had an inkling that Mitch (Billy Campbell) was a lousy husband for several years until the first time he hit her. And it sure was handy that Slim happened to have a rich daddy (Fred Ward) who was willing to fund her escape rather handsomely - even though she hadn't seen him in years and he wouldn't acknowledge her as his daughter. And the scenes where Slim went into training to take Mitch on had me rolling on the floor - she struck me as kind of a much cuter Rocky meets the Karate Kid! As far as the performances go, well they weren't a strong point. Lopez demonstrated no discernible acting talent. JLo should stick to singing. Campbell really didn't come across as frightening. After so many years on TV playing ER's good guy Dr. Carter, Noah Wyle is not believable in a bad guy role as Robbie. Actually, my wife's words when she discovered how bad Robbie really was were not my Dr. Carter! Sorry, Noah - the typecasting monster has you by the throat. And, I really hate to criticize her at her tender age but Tessa Allen (as little Gracie) has to rank as the most irritating child actor I've come across in a long time.There are a couple of positives. As unbelievable as it is, the fight scene between Slim and Mitch at the end was pretty good, and as silly as it is, the movie actually zipped along rather well. But I still can't go better than 3/10. "},{"Title":"Enough rubbish!","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What can be said about enough?  About half way through the film, I felt like I had in fact had 'Enough'!   When it began I figured, okay, its going to be a film like Panic Room. Boy was I wrong.  Panic Room was great.   This movie frankly stank.The plot was crummy.  The acting sucked.  All together, a large waste of time.  To think that I actually sat through all 120 minutes of this trash astounds me.What perhaps bothered me the most was the probably the fact that we never find out what Slim stands for; I only stayed to watch in order to find this out. Also, the continuous titles that were shown throughout the film were bothersome.  Okay.  We understand the plot, now get on with it, rather than annoying people with the stupid one line attempts at anecdotes...  It really hurt to watch them.Another thing that really peeved me was the fact that we never found out what the big plan between the main guy and Noah Wyle was.  It seems just a bit too far fetched for me.  Damn what a load of bull.I don't recommend this film to anyone; it is a waste of time.  I'm thankful that I did not pay to see the film, otherwise, I may have hurt someone. "},{"Title":"Absurd waste of talent","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  All of the main characters in this film deserve better. Manipulative righteous wrath movies had their heyday with the Deathwish franchise. There is just nothing new to offer and the woman thumps man angle doesn't fly. Having a 120lb hottie become a lethal weapon after a few weeks of training is a joke, and sends a scary message. This girl would not be able to handle a slightly more rugged woman than she is never mind a man twice her size. Granted it would not have served the plot to have her beaten to death but if even one woman takes this movie's message to heart there will be sorry consequences. This is no more plausible than if the lead were a 13 year old boy but because of Buffy the Vampire Slayer we are supposed to believe it? "}{"Title":"Distressing movie","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie in a sneak preview and after Kick it like Beckham and some german art-movies, it was one of the worst movies this year! The writer of the dialogues seems to be a hen-pecked husband that wrote down all this frustration... Sentences like I am the man sound so ridiculous, some of the dialogues reminded me of the most useless movie sentence I ever heard (RamboIII What´s that? - Blue light - What´s it doing? - Lights blue). The story has many potential, but only a few scenes are quite good. And as I thought it can´t get even worse, I became disabused. In about 3 weeks, JLo changes from a whiny mother, to the reincarnation of Bruce Lee...The only thing worth seeing is JLo in her cat suit, but that justifies not to watch this rubbish "},{"Title":"Enough Manipulative Movie Junk!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love good movies. Enough was not only a bad movie, but it was a schlocky attempt to manipulate audiences. Of course every decent human being is against spousal-domestic abuse. However, this movie did not invest 'enough' intelligent attention to story and script development. It would have made decent Lifetime viewing; but using J-Lo to bait movie goers into paying $8-10! Insulting! The studio had the nerve to 'save' this film for a prime summer release, because they thought they had a clear winner. That just shows how much respect they have for movie goers. Spousal abuse is very serious stuff. I hate to see serious social problems treated in such an exploitive manner. I rate this movie generously with a 2/10.  "},{"Title":"Too easy to have a funny stab because of the title","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OK, I just saw this movie at a sneak for free.  I am so happy that I got to see it for free because if I had spent any money on it it would have been a waste.  I knew going in to it, that it wasn't going to be up for any awards at the end of the year, but I thought I might be entertained.  I was in a way, but it was for all of the wrong reasons.  First of all if you see this movie watch out for the TITLE CARDS, they pop up for no certain reason, and they are absolutely hilarious.  2nd of all to me the male lead Bill Campbell looks to me a ton like Alan Thicke.  His acting is par at best, but his look kept on throwing me off, I thought the dad from growing pains was trying to kill his wife.  Lopez does an alright job.  Noah Wiley does an alright job, but some actors that I liked, and the friends of mine that saw it with me liked were either lost from the film in its entirety after the first twenty minutes, or in the case of Bill Cobbs was only in one scene.  There are so many plot holes and bad choices that I can't mention them here, but one that really bugs me that I will mention is **spoiler** Lopez cuts a phone line in a house with a security alarm.  Now if I remember right aren't security alarms hooked into phone lines, and if one is cut it would trigger it?  I don't know.  If these are the questions that I am asking myself after I leave a film, then I shouldn't have been watching it.  Enough was a film that was made for the Lifetime channel, the script and directing was just as bad as things that I have seen on there.  So please go and check out something else and save your cash. "},{"Title":"I think I've seen this before... oh, yes, in Sleeping with the Enemy!","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ever since J-Lo magnificently portrayed the legendary Selena, she's been sucking BIG TIME in every single movie she acts in.What is the point of her character in this movie? Chucks I don't know. This heroic clichès are so unbelievable... audience could felt insulted for that silly suggestion that, spoiler an abused wife can beat up her abusive husband to death, with a 30-day boxing training.The only feeling that arose inside me was being mad at myself to bother watching this movie.I watched Sleeping With The Enemy a decade ago and, well, Enough happens to be almost a remake. A pretty bad one, actually.Thumbs up for little Gracie (Tessa Allen) she steals the movie with her so funny gestures! I was so amused!  "},{"Title":"Insulting sensationalistic crap","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  J.Lo sinks in a morass of Hollywood hogwash as a victim of spousal abuse who gets fed up and fights back. One of those flicks which makes one wonder if everyone in Hollywood is stupid or just thinks we're stupid, Enough is pure sensationalistic crap not worthy of further commentary. (D) "},{"Title":"Don't miss this one!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Before going to see Enough I read a few comments from critics and movie-goers and most panned it.  I, on the contrary, loved it.  I was on the edge of my seat the entire movie.  Yes, it did remind me a little of Sleeping With The Enemy and there were times where it was predictable, but the rest of the movie made up for it.Count me in for a DVD purchase! "},{"Title":"I Loved It!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie people either love or hate. I am 13 and love all kinds of movies from romance all the way to blow em' up shoot em' down action films, but Enough was somewhere in beetween. Mitch (Billy Campbell) I can't say anything but SCARY!He did such an amazing job in playing the so called bad guy that you could actually hate this very hot looking usually nice guy from TV show Once and Again, he was great! Slim (Jennifer Lopez) also did an amazing job playing the roll of an abused wife in this film. She did such an awesome job kicking some major butt towards the end of the movie.She is very talented both in singing and acting. This film is scary, suspenceful,and an awesome storyline. Two thumbs up for Enough! "},{"Title":"Excellent, edge-of-your-seat domestic abuse thriller","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ENOUGH, in my opinion, is an excellent, edge-of-your-seat domestic thriller. If you ask me, the way that Slim (Jennifer Lopez) met Mitch (Billy Campbell) was absolutely romantic. The only scared me was the domestic violence. To be more specific, I got really scared, when Mitch (Billy Campbell) beat Slim (Jennifer Lopez) up. That really scared me! When that happened, I wanted to scream. If I were Mitch's wife, I'd either get a restraining order, flee, or tell him that I want a divorce. In conclusion, I recommend this excellent, edge-of-your-seat domestic thriller to those of you who like a nice, suspenseful thriller or are fans of Jennifer Lopez or Billy Campbell. You're in for some pure thrills and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this wonderful movie and have to say everyone certainly played a very good part in every character especially Jennifer Lop. What I really want to know is at the end of the movie when Slim meets Gracie at the airport she asks her where she wants to go, and my phone rang and I didn't hear what she said, could someone bring me up to date on this? I do know that Slim responded with  I had the same idea. Ginny was a familiar face, then I remembered her from the movie The Other Sister which she also played a great part playing the role of a mentally challenged sister trying to be her own person. All the characters in the movie Enough played their parts to the fullest and certainly made it a true thriller. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie just today... And I still can't believe J.Lo was nominated for a Razzie... Yes, maybe it wasn't brilliant, but she was really good in it. Enough is one of her greatest films ever. She was so sensitive.. so mothering for her daughter Grasie... Don't know what more can I say... I love that scenes, when all the Hiller family was on the beach, just Mitch wasn't happy). Also, that scene, where at the end she gave a hug her daughter and then Jen began sing her perfect song Alive... Finally I think it was worth in any case nomination for a Golden Globe. The same with movies Maid in Manhatten and The Wedding Planner. Selena was worth not Golden Globe, but Oscar nomination. "}{"Title":"motivational for females like 'Slim' getting kicked around by their b**tard of a husband every day","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler alert It was a really good film, it showed how us females arn't things u can kick around, we're not scared and if we are we can over come our fears. I liked the ending, when Slim got her own back, found the guns and kicked backside!!!!! It was a motivating movie two thumbs up!!!! Although i thought Lopez's Kid was kind of a cow. "},{"Title":"Very suspenseful, overall very entertaining.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think a lot of people have overcriticized this movie.  It is meant to be exciting and entertaining.  Everyone knows that a movie like this doesn't stand a chance in the Oscars but what action/thriller does?  Jennifer Lopez is overall pretty good in this movie.  Just like any other movie though there were a couple of scenes that needed work but that isn't a big deal. For me this movie did its job which is keep me on the edge of the seat and left me cheering at the end. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  **Warning! Plot Spoilers Ahead!**  (Not that you don't know it all anyway if you've seen a trailer)Unbelievable.  Usually if a movie makes you think that, it's a good thing.  But in this case, it's absolutely not.  The whole time I was watching, I could not figure out how and why this movie got made (ok, it was Jennifer Lopez...but anyway).  It was literally beyond my belief.  You know those public service announcements that tell battered women to seek help?  This was like a two-hour version, but with the same sixty seconds of sense.Questions everywhere, from plot holes to character choices to believability.  Why did Mitch (Billy Campbell) so desperately want to keep JLo around?  He had the money and probably would have won custody had they divorced.  Why did JLo try to leave at night instead of splitting while her husband was at work?  Why were there words on the screen to separate scenes?  And why did they stop about halfway through?  Anyone with half a brain can follow the plot.  Although I suppose anyone who might be entertained by this movie might need those condescending hints.Could Mitch (Billy Campbell) have possibly been any more one-dimensional?  What citizen really wields as much Mitch displayed?  What about JLo stealing a new identity?  Hello jail-time!  How did JLo become an expert fighter in just one month?  And who does that anyway?  I suppose that was a Rocky-like sequence, but her trainer's barked words were plain cheesy. I'd try to delve further into the poor plot devices (everything), writing (It's food.), and visuals (twice JLo was pointlessly moved off screen), but it's not even worth it.  The worse-than-cliche script and the horrendously bad story don't even merit criticism.  Bottom Line The worst movie I've seen in recent memory.  1 of 10.   "},{"Title":"Retitle it Screenplay from Hell","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Awful. Perhaps one of the worst movies I have seen in the last two years, Enough was doomed from the opening titles, mostly due to an incredibly inane, unbelievable script.   One of the sure signs that a film has been poorly written is apparent when good actors (Lopez, Campbell) look like they cannot act.  The dialogue is so shoddy that it lends no credibility to their characters.Irritating sequence titles Our Wedding,  The Conquering Hero, etc., are used to paste together badly paced events in the first half of this story, then are abandoned in the worsening second half.  Major plot developments (relationships, telltale violent behavior, murders, cross-country travel) are curiously omitted.The first sign that Lopez's hubby is wacko strangely does not happen until they have been married for five years.  Upon his confession of an affair and refusal to end it, the wronged wife is immediately forgiving and accepting.. much more than most spouses would be for a forgotten anniversary.   When he first assaults her, rather than showing fear and revulsion, she wipes a small (already clotted) trickle of blood from her cheek and continues a philosophical conversation with him about their relationship.The plot, dialogue, editing and continuity are a mess.  This was a true waste of talent including Lopez, Campbell, Noah Wylie (who has made a bad misstep in choosing a first major screen role) and Juliet Lewis (who once AGAIN exhibits facial expressions that convey a character with mental illness or some emotional disturbance).Enough already. "},{"Title":"I watched the movie Enough yesterday, Jan.28,05, twice! I liked it.","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Anyone that thinks a universal problem like violence in the home, should cause a cessation of movies that depict that subject, has poi for brains. If it wasn't for a number of deaths of women, and laws enacted to save battered women, the problem would be worse. But, even with the existing laws, there is a continual rise of violence in the home. Ask any cop on the planet, the worse call they answer is  A&B in a household by a family member Why? they don't know what they are going into. The movie Enough was well done, Jennifer Lopez did a better than good job. The fact that 18-29 year old guys don't like it, Oh boy, there's a surprise!!. they know if they cross the line with their girl friend, they not only, not get some anymore,They may get their ass kicked by the girlfriend they beat up. This movie is a good learning tool for that group. The case of violence on women is perpetuated, by the supposed lessons they have learned in their own home. If their mom's put dad's lights out with an aluminum frying pan, Junior wouldn't think slapping girls around was such a rush. Walk a mile in their shoes, then tell us Enough already. "},{"Title":"More cliche's than Glitter.","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is beyond awful.  The only movie Jennifer Lopez was somewhat good in was Selina and that is not really a compliment.  It is a story of a waitress who meets the guy of her dreams and marries him. A few years and an annoying little girl later, JLO finds out that her husband is cheating on her with some French woman and confronts him about it, but instead of stopping the cheating he gives JLO a punch in the jaw, and acts like a total skitzo through out the movie.  One minute he is a the nice guy, next he is this wife beating, chauvinist jerk. OH BROTHER, can this movie get anymore comicbooky with this man's character changing in a blink of an eye with NO EXPLANATION WHAT SO EVER, wait, it can.   After she escapes the man with her daughter, she looks for her rich father who abandoned her and her mother years ago because her husband is after her and his daughter.  She finds him, and some after-school-special crap happens.Daddy dearest feels sorry for JLO and instead of getting her some security guards and high priced lawyers for a divorce, he high tech's her up with watches that spray some sort of mace, and have her trained in Krav Maga which she becomes an expert in about 3 weeks, GIVE ME A BREAK.  Then she realizes she can't take anymore crap from her husband, so she sets him up by breaking into his house, getting rid of his guns and knifes, and placing letters around the house saying some crap about him beating her, or some foolishness like that.  She waits until he comes home, and the end turns into the climax of Jet Li's film, The One with all these combat moves and junk like that, and she kills him.  After Sleeping with the Enemy oh excuse me, Eye for an Eye oh excuse me again, Enough ended, I realized I just wasted 115 minutes of my life with this stupid crap.  JLO if you aren't going to do a proper movie, don't act.  I know you acted before you sang, but face it, you are worse than Freddie Prinze Jr. in picking out a good script. Stick with singing and dancing. "},{"Title":"Good Enough for our family","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enough in my opinion was worth the time. I sometimes use the expression, It was a good ride. Our family thought that maybe we were watching a light comedy by the way it started out. But by the house purchasing scene we all went Oh oh!!...this doesn't feel right! I have watched well over 10,000 movies and I heard some real original dialogue. Yes, it was over the top and full of holes in some respects watching Slim morph into Jane Bond, but it WAS a fun ride. Out of ****, I gave it ***, my wife ***, my daughter ***, her husband ** "},{"Title":"Hahaha OK, 'Enough' of this Crap!","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have heard so much of how trashy this film is. The reason why I watched it was because I was told of the unintentional laughter that it would provide...and it does. I'm not laughing at the theme it pretends to deal with (marital abuse) but rather at the way it was made, that includes the horrendous acting, the insipid writing and the 'amateurness' of it. Even TV movies have better portrayed the theme of marital abuse. 'Enough' is as clichéd as they get. The writing is just so bad and predictable and the whole theme is dealt with in such a filmy and pretentious way that 'Enough' qualifies as a B-grade film. There is no character development. Jennifer Lopez seems to have been losing the little acting talent (that was apparent in films like 'Selena' and 'Out of Sight'). Thankfully, she's back in form in the later released 'An Unfinished Life'. To be a little fair to Lopez, the camera seems more concerned about her hot physique. Billy Campbell plays the clichéd abusive dad. Juliette Lewis does well in an insignificant role. Her choice of films reflects why her career is fading. Noah Wyle does well as a scumbag cop. Then there's that child actress who's one of the many annoying young actors. A fellow user rightfully labelled her 'potatoface'. Her overdone cuteness is cringeworthy e.g. the 'taint' is 'paint' reference (some obvious weak symbolism thrown into it). It is after all director Apted's fault to not be able to make a worthy film that deals with marital abuse in a mature way rather than insult the viewer's intelligence. "},{"Title":"A tragic waste of precious life.","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Putting my opinion on Jennifer Lopez's acting aside, my intelligence and tolerance for the Hollywood film industry has been brutally offended.This film trivialized the trouble faced by abused women. The characters are stereotyped and dull, the plot predictable and possibly worst of all, TITLE CARDS. Because the audience is stupid enough to have no idea that he's the ideal husband until he slaps her and sleeps around, they have to tell us in tall white text on a black background. The movie was beneath the talent of Juliette Lewis, and most of the rest of the cast.In conclusion, watching this made me feel physically ill. Don't waste the minutes you could spend doing something more valuable, like changing the cat litter. "},{"Title":"Obviously a comedy, but where are the laughs???","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First thing to say Do not waste your money and time with this movie. I have warned you, i feel better now. I don't know how can people still waste money to do such crap, at first i thought it would be a thriller, a bad one, but with some good scenes. Oh boy, I was totally wrong, it is a comedy ( figure why )  The acting is totally laughable, seems that everyone is doing a stupid role on purpose. The plot is hummm... err , plot , plot... is there a plot? I could list a lot of problems in this movie, but i got to one conclusion, it is a comedy. I am positive about that, the only thing( no big deal ) that was missing were the LAUGHS.My rate 0 (ZERO).( BTW There is one laugh , when she goes on a training course, it looks so much like, i dont know, van damme movies, even remembers me of Joe Somebody ) "}{"Title":"Slim is not an empowered female","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"28 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez's character `Slim' is by no means a representation of an empowered female.  The film frames Slim in a way that boxes her into the stereotypical roles of first a lonely, low-income waitress swept off her feet by a charming, handsome `prince,' then a loving, caring mother, and finally a `fighter.'  The close-up shots of Jennifer Lopez in her tight, belly-baring training outfit completely segment her body and remove the audience from the action.  Instead of focusing on the actions themselves, the camera focuses on the body, forcing the viewer to act as both a surveyor and spectator.  Of course, Jennifer Lopez is infamous for that bum of hers, but how many times must it flash across the screen before it takes on a larger character than Slim herself?  This technique of segmenting Jennifer Lopez's body sends a message to the female audience that it is Slim's physical appearance that develops her as a strong woman and gives her the power to `fight' back, not her intellect.  Even though Slim breaks away from the abusive relationship with her husband, she is still dependent on a male character throughout the film.  First it is her fairytale-like father who supports her financially.  Next her new lover, Joe, supports her emotionally.  The scene in which Joe and Slim lie in bed together suggest that Slim is finally settled into her new life because she has a man at her side.  Finally, it is her male trainer who `gives' her the ability to fight back.  All in all, the film is a total flop in terms of taking on the serious social issue of domestic abuse and a woman's rise above it. "},{"Title":"A good, entertaining film","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Like others I don't really understand all the criticism as this was a damn good way to spend a couple of hours. I hadn't heard of the film before tonight's screening, which surprises me because with JLo and Juliette Lewis and Fred Ward I'd have expected a higher profile. Anyway a measure of the picture's effectiveness is that although the subject matter isn't to my taste as a rule - 'another bloody woman's picture...' - I found myself unexpectedly drawn into the plot and very quickly cheering on JLo and her cutie of a daughter.I do have one reservation with this type of picture. It's a dislike of violent scenes involving very young children. It's obvious that for a lot of the participants the terror is real. 'Enough' was no exception either. Grace looked scared stiff during the fight in the hallway between the parents, in which we saw her knocked to the ground while trying to protect her mother, and if anything more so during the high speed car chase. I remember 'Cathy Come Home', a television docu-drama about homelessness made here in England over forty years ago. The scene where social workers struggle to part the runaway mother from her children and the hysterical sobbing of the bewildered youngsters has never left me. I just don't think film makers should involve them at that age. I just don't.A good film that keeps the tension ticking along at a healthy rate and constitutes a nice addition to English director Michael Apted's curriculum vitae. Do take it as entertainment however. We all know the propaganda value of film and television, but we are reading to much into it if all we require is a narrow 'women good - men bad' point of view. Most cases of domestic abuse we hear about concern violent men. That's not surprising given the current political bias. But remember too that a man wouldn't be seen dead admitting he lived in fear of the missus, so those that put up with violent females tend to bite their lip and keep quiet. By contrast women complain at the drop of a hat and are encouraged to do so at every turn.If anyone's interested I recommend the books by Erin Pizzey on this subject (she opened the world's first women's refuge in England in 1971, joined the feminist movement then promptly left when she realized it has been taken over by men-hating lesbians and assorted Marxist political fanatics). They are fair-minded and something of an eye-opener. 'Prone to Violence' is brilliant. It may still be available in second hand stores. "},{"Title":"was just not enough to watch","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Lopez plays a waitress who marries her dream guy, only to find that he is cheating on her and will beat her whenever he feels like it.  She decides to bolt with her daughter and he begins stalking her.  Eventually she is told there is nothing the police can do and it will be up to her...hence the title of the movie.This is nothing more than an extremely weak adaptation of Sleeping with the Enemy.  I am no Julia Roberts fan but her movie was so far superior it wasn't even funny.  Billy Campbell was mildly entertaining as her husband a.k.a. the villain but that was about it.  Lopez isn't that engaging of an actress and the movie is really hurt by that.Also the editing of the movie was just atrocious.  Whoever thought to put up the different titles of the various sections (similar to what you would see in a Frasier episode) was an idiot.  Any time the movie began to make any attempt at building tension, it was busted up by a black screen with a new title.Say enough is enough and don't see this one.  "},{"Title":"Disgracefully Entertaining Popcorn Thriller","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enough has been brutalised by pretty much every critic. Yet its one of those films which clearly isn't aiming for critical acclaim. A serious and thought-provoking drama about spousal abuse it is NOT. Yet a crowd-pleasing suspense thriller with a satisfying climax it is. The opening scenes are cheesy yet they're thankfully rushed so the real story can begin. And when the first act of violence occurs against the improbably named Slim, it does come as quite a shock. Audience members actually gasped in the cinema. From then on the tension rarely falters. There are some incredibly successful suspense moments (Slim's initial escape, the hotel room, staying at Joe's, the car chase). And while the morals of the climax are debatable (fighting violence with violence) its still great fun. Jennifer Lopez (Jenny as we now call her) does give a good performance despite what people have said. Illogical and unintentionally funny it may be, but its also an incredibly entertaining Friday night thriller. "},{"Title":"I would definitely see it again.","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *~*~ Spoilers Ahead *~*~I'm really surprised that 'Enough' has gotten such terrible reviews.  I enjoyed it.  It is a film with very few slow points and a fairly good cast, but it is typical and predictable.  I don't mind though.As many have said, 'Enough' seems as if it would be right at home over at Lifetime with all of the other battered wife flicks.  It's the typical film where husband doesn't turn out to be who we thought he was, wife tries to get away, husband catches her every time, wife then trains and gets all pumped up ready for revenge, and finally, wife DOES seek revenge more than likely killing the husband.  Oh, please, I knew that Mitch would be dead by the end after fifteen minutes of the film.  As predictable as it is, I still liked it, but oh, did they have to cast Jennifer Lopez?Jennifer Lopez is okay.  She was good in 'Selena', but I think that she should really stick to her musical career.  Lopez seems perfect for the role of Slim, yet she has a lot to work on.  Her acting is far from decent.  It's not that she's bad, because I've seen a lot worse, but she does need some practice.  Her 'ruggedness' is good for the movie and she does turn out to be pretty acceptable by the end.  For some reason I keep going back to Cameron Diaz for this role.  I don't know if she would have worked, but I don't think that it would have been that bad.  So, Lopez is okay, nothing great though.  This is the first time I had seen Billy Campbell in anything.  I must say that I was quite impressed with his acting.  He acted like a cruel husband, as he was supposed to, but he just seems so nice and caring that it's kind of hard to believe that he could be so mean.  Bottom line is that I would see him again in any of his other movies.  Tessa Allen was really cute and enjoyable.  Juliette Lewis is good as she always is. Noah Wyle.  What can I say except that I was thrilled to see him.  I adore Wyle and even though I didn't care for his character, he still did a wonderful job.  The cast turned in some good performances.The writing and script in general seems pretty bland, but actions are more powerful than words.  Yeah, yeah.  Some things could have been better but were fine just the way they were.So, Billy Campbell as well as the others is really good, Jennifer Lopez goes through about a hundred wigs, the ending is predictable but interesting, and the film runs at a constant fast pace.  I'd recommend this to just about anyone. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie...when it was Sleeping with the Enemy","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just because I knew this movie would not exactly be original and figured it would be too darn predictable didn't mean I did not enjoy it.  I like it when abused women fight back, like Tina Turner and Julia Roberts in Sleeping with the Enemy.  I do agree though that I thought it was odd that Mitch became an azzmunch only after JLO refused to put up with his cheatin heart. Funny how there was no buildup to that.  Things are all peachy keen then one day, pow right in the kisser.  Anyway I thought many of the lines were cliche and JLO did over act.  Why the heck didn't she just go to the police. And Ginny's line about divine animal right seemed stupid.  Divine and animal just don't seem to go together.  To be divine is all holy but to be animal like is instinctual, base, and scary.  Oh well, too much analyzing on that one, but I still enjoyed watching her ambush him in his own house.  I could not help it.  The rich father seemed a little too convenient though. They should've really made her struggle, like they should've reduced her to stripping or waiting tables or something.  Overall it was decent.  "},{"Title":"Could this get any worse?","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've always considered myself a big fan of Jennifer Lopez but what is going on here? This movie blatantly tries to rip off Sleeping With The Enemy and fails miserably. The male lead (her husband) is not even believable as a wife-beater and Jennifer Lopez' character doesn't even seem to give a damn whats going on with her husband. This movie is a shame because Jennifer Lopez has potential to be a great actress. "},{"Title":"I laughed. I cried. I very nearly got up and left the theater - because it BLEW","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Contains Spoilers Had I not been with a friend who dearly wished to see the movie, I probably would have walked out - because as entertaining as the pure BS was, by the end of the movie I'd had Enough. The whole thing centers around Slim, (a name that, by pure ridiculousness, appears to be one Lopez thought up herself), and her struggle to protect herself and her child from her abusive husband.  And as the trailers indicate, Slim becomes fed up and takes revenge into her own hands. Now this entire concept in itself is terrible enough by itself, but first off - the movie is entirely unproportional.  Five minutes are dedicated to illustrating how Slim and Mitch met, married, bought a house, had a daughter, etc. These few minutes are centered mainly around the hints that the guy might be mean and/or nuts - his pager goes off during the birth of the child, he pressures some random guy into selling his house, blah blah. Two minutes goes to Slim just stumbling onto the fact that he's cheating. This scene is by far the worst in the movie; as throughout the film, the acting is terrible and COMPLETELY UNREALISTIC.  It's full of stupid villian-he-man cliches, like I have more needs cause I'm a man, and more blah blah. Then the whole majority of the movie is Slim and daughter Gracie - who, by the way, has the most terrible dialouge of all the characters - running around trying to escape the evil husband. Two minutes goes to Slim training in self-defense, and four minutes of her suddenly out-smarting and out-fighting her husband.  Then BOOM, everything's okay.To add to the list of grievances she never ages. The movie has to span at least eight years, and the only thing about Slim that changes is her hairstyle. There's a semblance of a good cast - Wyle and Lewis have proven to be decent actors, but did they stop reading scripts before they agree to sign on? Their measley appearences throughout the movie just frustrate the audience.Good news is the screenplay is not the worst part of the movie. Although the dialouge, plot, and character development is definitely horrible, the music is even worse.  You're watching car chases, husband rampages, and corny soul-searching moments all set to either loud, irritating techno music or the worst movie score I've ever heard.There's actually even better news, and that's that the filmmakers did a decent job. The directing, cinematography, editing, design - they were all decent, especially for being a popular movie. Costume design looked a little like Lopez also did it herself, but it could be worse. I honestly think that the filmmakers did the best job they could, considering what they had to work with. It's my opinion that this really should never have been given the green light in the first place.The whole concept of the movie is awful. A victimized little wifey finds justification for trying to kill her whacko husband, because self defense is not murder. Never mind having a moral statement, the movie doesn't need it -- it has the amazing, career-just-won't-die-no-matter-how-bad-her-movies-or-how-tight-her-wardrobe J Lo! But imagine that, she's not Enough to save her terribly UNREALISTIC and downright laughable little movie, not by a long shot.D- "},{"Title":"We have seen this before,and why rehashed it?","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It would be really easy to make fun of Jennifer Lopez's new movie Enough thanks to its ridiciously unfortunate title,but............- I had ENOUGH just after seeing the first half of the picture.- The film is so long,you'll be screaming ENOUGH way before its over.- Judging from the size of her dumper,I'd say J. Lo can't get enough Cheerios(oops,my bust-Cheetos).But we're not the kind of rag that would stoop to such low levels. Besides the film does a pretty good job of mocking itself. For starters, anyone who has seen the trailer for the film already knows exactly what is going to happen and we already knwo the outcome of how this will end right down to the final minutes. This story is also as unoriginal as they come,already having been recycled more times than I'd care to count.The story is about a young woman whose formerly wonderful husband(whom she meets at a local diner while working as a waitress)starts to beat the stuffing out of her and also goes after her daughter as well(which we see J. Lo in a mommy role for once). She tries to get out of the relationship,and he pummels her even harder. Killing him is the only way out,because self-defense is not murder,or so it seems. By the way,since I'm on the subject indefinitely,besides,didn't Julia Roberts already pull this crap a while back,and did Ashley Judd try it even more recently than that? Hey,didn't Farrah Fawcett do it before either of those two(yes,which she won an Emmy for her performance in The Burning Bed-remember that movie where she set her husband on fire while he was sleeping after he abused her like a ragdoll)?This movie was directed by Micheal Apted(we also released the exceptional well received British WWII thriller,Enigma)who is known for hard-hitting dramas here,but he misses his mark. The reason why this movie sucks so bad is that of J. Lo as the producer and executive of production of this picture. She is one egocentric star. The ONLY good thing about it is the performance of Noah Wyle(from TV's E.R). I was shocked that he played a villainous character that was SO good,and as for Bruce Campbell,well I give him props for pulling this off since he is only known for horror and action flicks. A tremendous risk.Too cheesy and even too dull for either a Lifetime movie or a USA special event,this riles up the audience,but it's also going to put dangerous thoughts into the minds of women who deservedly get smacked around for not keeping their yaps shut,or for that manner not having a hot meal on the table when their man comes home from a hard days work,or taking out a revolver on their abusive husbands,or thinking of murderous ways they can kill off their mate. "},{"Title":"slick, conventional thriller","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In typical Hollywood fashion, `Enough' takes a serious social issue - spousal abuse - and uses it as the pretext for a run-of-the-mill damsel-in-distress thriller.  However, in keeping with our post-modern, feminist sensibilities, this heroine, is, as it turns out, as mad as hell and decides she's not going to take it anymore.  She is no passive victim of her circumstances like her earlier imperiled movie ingénue sisters, but rather a gutsy fighter who takes a proactive role in determining her own fate and the fate of her daughter.  Jennifer Lopez plays `Slim,' a woman who starts out looking for a man who will `protect' her, but who, after she finds one (the wrong one), winds up kicking that slimy-assed dude's butt all around his swank, multimillion-dollar Marina home before she's through with him.Your enjoyment of this film will be pretty much predicated on how willing you are to overlook the predictability and implausibility of much of the plotting.  The film starts off well with an impressive twist involving Slim's initial meeting with the man, Mitch, who will quickly become both her husband and her stalker.  Yet, Mitch's conversion from doting lover to psychotic wife abuser is so abrupt and so poorly presaged by any actions or statements on his part that we are forced to question the credibility of pretty much everything else that follows.  Moreover, for a woman-on-the-run who is supposedly so adept at eluding her pursuer, Slim makes some pretty monumental blunders all the way through the story.  Particularly inexplicable is her decision to allow her little daughter to phone Mitch, an action that leads him and his goons in no time at all to the upper Michigan community where the two of them have been hitherto successfully hiding.  I also wonder why characters in movies, after they have knocked the villain senseless and he lies bleeding on the floor, always seem to turn their backs on him, even though we, in the audience, know full well that he will miraculously arise, Phoenix-like, from the ashes, to continue his murderous assault.  The heroine in `Wait Until Dark' at least had her blindness as justification for her doing that.  What is Slim's excuse?  (By the way, don't any of these characters ever go to the movies?  If they did, they would eliminate most, if not all, of their lapses into stupidity).However, given its many flaws, `Enough' turns out to be pretty effective entertainment within the prescribed limits of its genre.  Although she still isn't much of an actress, Jennifer Lopez manages to elicit the audience's empathy thanks primarily to the aura of immense likeability she exudes. In fact, it's hard not to end up rooting for a character caught up in the type of worm-turning vengeance we have going on here.  Director Michael Apted knows how to direct a suspense scene for maximum effectiveness, and cinematographer Rogier Stoffers has done a beautiful job capturing the multi-colored splendors of the film's many and varied locations.  The attractive look of the film is alone worth the price of admission. "}{"Title":"R-rated movie in a PG-13 straightjacket","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a connoisseur of the finest in movie villainy, I was excited &#150; albeit incredulous &#150; when an online friend told me that Bill Campbell in ENOUGH was a legit contender for inclusion in my elite rogues gallery &#150; the `Scum of the Earth All-Stars.'  I reminded said friend that the standards for earning admission via a spousal performance necessitate rivaling Eric Roberts' performance in STAR 80, and that such an achievement is metaphysically impossible within the confines of a PG-13 movie.  But he held fast to his claim, and I was thus obligated to check it out.I was right.  To his credit, Bill Campbell DOES push PG-13 to the absolute limit &#150; more than enough to make his ultimate fate cathartically satisfying to the masses -- but his character is far too thinly developed to achieve `classic' status.  (More development would have necessitated a bigger share of the screen time, and we can't have THAT in a J Lo vehicle now, can we?)  In theory, he could STILL make the club if there's a `director's cut' in the can somewhere, but I doubt that one exists &#133; journeyman Michael Apted is not the kind of director that such a two-phase marketing strategy gets built around.  The unpleasant truth is that R-rated latitude is a MINIMUM requirement for doing justice to the ugly subject of domestic spousal abuse.  This subject can only be softened up for mass acceptability via plot contrivances and clichés, and ENOUGH brings this point home in spades.  The necessity of covering five years' time in the space of two hours creates still more demands for serendipity, shortcuts, stock characters, etc.  Of paramount importance is that our virtuous heroine maintains her moral purity while exacting crowd-pleasing vengeance, and believe me &#150; you've seen the timeworn cliché that makes this all possible before!To be fair, there are a couple of bright spots along the way, especially in the cast.  Noah Wyle pays his first real visit to the dark side in this movie, seems to like what he sees, and makes the most of his small-but-juicy supporting role.  The little girl who plays J Lo's daughter is very good, also &#133; refreshingly devoid of affectation, self-consciousness, or signs of excessive coaching.  But for every plus, it seems like there's a minus.  Juliette Lewis has now sadly been reduced to playing one of the aforementioned stock characters (that of the `nymphomaniac best friend & confidant').The only frankness about the ugliness and scope of domestic spousal abuse in the real world is a comment made by a cop late in the movie.  Mildly touching, until you realize that a legitimate rejoinder to his statement would be, `Good thing, eh?  Otherwise we wouldn't have had a commercially-viable movie.'The denouement is brass-knuckle, but the treatment of the larger issue at hand is strictly kid-glove.  I'm afraid that this is as frank as American movies are ever going to get with this subject, so if you want to see a realistic, powerful, compelling, and properly off-putting treatment, imports are your only hope.  I highly recommend ONCE WERE WARRIORS from New Zealand.  "},{"Title":"You too can look sexy when being brutalized!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *Consider this your spoiler warning* The only reason to watch this film is to see J-Lo get the s--t beaten out of her. I know that's a very un-PC thing to say, but this film is such an offensively stylized, uncreative, unrealistic portrayal of the real-life drama of domestic violence--it's permissible to laugh at it. Dis I even need to warn readers of a spoiler for this completely formulaic film? Beautiful girl and Rich guy fall in love. Red flags are ignored. BANG! POW! ZOWIE! Beautiful girl gets icy-cool revenge using snazzy and oh-so-sexy martial arts moves. Film ends. Victim as Victorious. Bad Guy gets Hurt. And everybody looks FABULOUS throughout. Ok, so if you're into Jennifer Lopez and whats-his-name, you'll love this shallow, MTV-Style view of social drama. If you hate her like I do--well, you'll enjoy it for other reasons. But for God's sake, if you want to see a realistic, compelling and responsible drama about domestic violence as it actually occurs in real people's lives--please skip this one. "},{"Title":"Enough is way too much!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** This movie was a pathetic abomination.  J-Lo starts off as a diner waitress and ends up a commando??  Come on!  It's really sad when a movie's only strength is that it has a theme based only on good sense. OK--Domestic abuse is a horrible crime.  Does that mean we have to laud this pathetic attempt at a film? No.  I feel abused at having gone to see it.Jennifer looks like she's sleep walking through this one, and the supporting cast laughable.  There was definately some cheering at the end of the film (evil husband gets his comeuppance), but there was even more laughing and shaking of heads. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Lopez shows her acting chops!","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jennifer Lopez I am not a fan of that much. But still she shows off her acting chops in a rare drama. She plays Slim a waitress who has an estranged biological father and considers her stepfather, her own father.She thinks a man named Mitch, played to the core by Bill Campbell is her knight in shining armor after he stops Noah Wylie from getting into Slim's pants! Both she and Mitch married and have a child named Grace.Soon she realizes that the man she married is a womanizer and abusive man. As she confronts him, he becomes violent towards her both physically and emotionally. Then realizing that he has all the money in the world, including police in his pocket.Slim has no other choice but to try to outrun him and to grab Grace with her. While Mitch is beyond one step behind. As her estranged father at first does not want to help his daughter and granddaughter but having been threatened by Mitch's friends posing as FBI agents. He then agrees to pitch in.Also Slim thinks that the only way to stop Mitch is to kill him since the courts also seem to be on his side as money does talk indeed. She takes up some martial arts lessons. And is preparing for a battle with Mitch.Ending is predictable but still, spousal abuse is all too often ignored still. Both before and even after this movie. "},{"Title":"The movie was good but..","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie was good and all, y'know, but it's the end that puzzles me.It's like they where directing a ninja movie in the studio next door and the directors where having a coffee and then stupidly took each others scripts and handed it to the staff, who then performed really messed up scenes.It really looks like they pushed the feminism way too far in the ending, killing any possibility for the movie to be a remarkable job.But hey!, at least I felt like I didn't just watch it because of J.Lo, since that's what movies staring pop stars tend to do, make a sucky script, a sucky camera work, sucky scores and everything sucky, but the lead character, straight off Beverly Hills *cough* Crossroads *cough*.Was actually a good piece ,not the most original nor the most touching, but good and almost makes sense. "},{"Title":"A good idea, but went the wrong direction....","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You think when they take a personal situation like domestic abuse...they keep it real and based on reality, but in this case they went with the most outrageous and most dangerous way to handle domestic abuse.When Slim(Jennifer Lopez), meets Mitch(Billy Campbell)after he did a heroic deed for Slim. The two become married and have a daughter name Gracie. However, when she discovers that he has been cheating on her, he begins to beat her when she refuses to back down. After thought, she decides with the help of her friends make a run for it and hide. However, no matter were she goes he finds out someway to find her and try to get Gracie away from her.The whole film loses its meaning after that point. First she changes her identity, and lives in another place. Then she puts her daughter endanger in a stupid attempt to hide and then she decides to fight back against her husband.If the film took a different route than what it took, I think this would have been a really great thriller, but seriously. Jennifer Lopez did an OK job. The screenwriters should have put some thought into it than worry about if it's going to be a hit or not.I think you can find something better, than this crap!!!! 5/10 "},{"Title":"enough already","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Enough! What a name for a film, but it does sum it up well. 'Enough' is a film about a young woman who is tricked into a marriage by a man who gets everything that he wants by bullying and using violence/manipulation. His wife, played by Jennifer Lopez, and her little daughter go into hiding to stay away from him, but he keeps chasing her. In the end, it is obvious that it is going to lead into some sort of show-down or resolution of the conflict.This film is a 'chick flick', but it's also a female power film about over-coming overbearing men. It's a good one to watch if you've just been dumped or plan to never fall in love again. It is not the best film, but it is mildly decent entertainment if you're looking for a film that sort-of borders on horror and romance. "},{"Title":"Decent, if derivative","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I rented this film mainly because I had heard it featured the Israel self-defense art Krav Maga. I wanted to see a glimpse of this without renting something as stolid as a training video. What I got was fairly entertaining, although it was rather slow to get off the ground. The film takes a fairly long time establishing the relationship between Slim (Jennifer Lopez)and husband Mitch (Billy Campbell) before revealing Mitch openly for the monster he is. We get all sorts of hints about how controlling and possessive he can be before this. The problem I had with this, and with Slim's run from Mitch, is that I'd seen it before (and done better) in Sleeping with the Enemy, with Julia Roberts in Lopez's role and Patrick Bergin in the Campbell part. J.Lo's character does some phenomenally stupid things for a woman on the run, SPOILER ALERT such as making repeated calls to her estranged husband's mother and even, once, to her husband, so that her daughter can speak to them END SPOILER ALERT. But this is something I would tend to blame on the writing. Lopez herself does a fairly creditable job as a wife first betrayed, then terrified. But the real acting triumphs in this film belong to Campbell, who comes across as the textbook example of a sociopath, and to Tessa Allen as Slim and Mitch's daughter, Gracie. Allen was only five when Enough was filming, but she clearly has a great career ahead of her. "},{"Title":"Not quite enough","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  `Enough' (2002) starring Jennifer Lopez, Bill Campbell, and Juliette Lewis follows an abused  wife as she escapes her male attacker saving the life of her and her young daughter.  Though  it is venerable to see a victim become the dominant party when Lopez's character, Slim,  learns master fighting moves and takes revenge on her husband Mitch, played by Bill  Campbell, the plot as well as the perspective of the camera throughout the film is questionable.  We are introduced to Slim in a Diner where she is serving her future husband  Bill.  The film places Slim as a Latina woman of meager means making it obvious of course  that her encounter with this wealthy white man equals her fairy tale ending of the prince  sweeping her off her feet carrying her out of her low end job and into an enchanted castle. As the plot continues it snowballs into increasing degrees of ridiculous.  It is awful to watch  Bill abuse Slim and even more dreadful to think of how many women this happens to  everyday.  However one must question Slims decisions in running all over the country  attempting to transform her identity while confusing her child rather than calling the police  after any of her husbands reoccurring abusive attacks. A critical viewer is also called to question the number of close shots on the lead actresses  body as she is going through her defensive training.  At some points the camera objectifies  Slim just as much as her power hungry abusive husband.  Slim is being surveyed by the male  characters, the directing males behind the camera as well as the males who watch the film. The camera frequently calls attention to parts of the actress reminding us of her femininity  while placing her in the position of the surveyed object as opposed to the dominant party.   In a film that portrays itself as a female empowering work it falls short of elevating the role  of women. `Enough' continues the stereotypes of female stars predominately revered for their physical appearance and reliance on male characters.  If it wasn't for her wealthy long  lost father Jupiter, played by Fred Ward, the lonely Latina mother wouldn't have had the  means to find the physical training she obtained to overcome her aggressor.  The plot of the  female victim defeating her male attacker is something that should be seen more in cinema but the way in which it is achieved in this film leaves room for improvement.  "},{"Title":"Enough!","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What was Michael Apted thinking?Clearly he wasn't thinking.From the director of the 7-UP series and COAL MINER'S DAUGHTER and CONTINENTAL DIVIDE comes...ENOUGH?Truly the worst piece of poodle pucky I've seen in years, and I'm not even going to imagine what somebody must have done to abuse Nicholas Kazan (the writer of AT CLOSE RANGE, for Chrissakes!!!) into squeezing out this turd.Jennifer Lopez isn't at fault here, the script is. It is completely witless and illogical in the extreme.Enough! "}{"Title":"Masochists like Mitch!","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Two Weeks Notice Now that is what I call dreadful!I expect all masochists to like Mitch, but not the kicking or punching scenes!He knew how to colour-coordinate his clothes!The song Enough was fab, with important lyrics, concerning individuals being on their own, when they have no-one else!I would be quite happy to have Spanking/SM fun with Billy! "},{"Title":"Enough J-lo just stop","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie honestly would have been better without Jennifer Lopez. I think its time for her acting career to end, she makes a good footnote along with Debbie Gibson and Vanilla Ice in the history of acting. She also ruined The Cell, which Elizabeth Shue would have been amazing in, or let alone any other actress. J-Lo really isn't that great, but this movie had potential to be amusing (although it is the same movie about a 'mother defending herself' remade every 3 years.) The movie has an average of five stars and deservedly so. Throwing words at me in a Kevin Smith Clerksesque fashion is cute and amused me. Thats mostly where three of the stars come from, one star for hitting J-Lo when she talked freaked out in the beginning scene (I was really thinking...please, STOP! PLEASE STOP TALKING! PLEASE! and then he hit her and it was okay.)And yes, i'm going to bitch about the ending. It upset me, it made no sense, there's no way he'd be a millionaire and decide 'oh lets not get the motion detectors, so J-Lo can sneak in.) I don't think J-Lo was convincing as a fighter-hero, and I really think her husband would have killed her. In real life i'm sure shes just as annoying as in this movie and the fact that she demanded roles such as exec. producer shows she an egotistical idiot. Divas dont belong in film, actually I don't even think Divas exist, I think it's something VH-1 made up. 5 stars is all ya get on this one J-Lo, and please choose your actress more carefully next time to the director -  "},{"Title":"Just another Lifetime channel movie","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was pretty ridiculous.  The scenes with J-Lo training to beat up her husband were silly. And the final showdown between them was so unbelievable.  Also, Noah Wiley, who plays a cop friend of Mitch, tracks down Slim and nearly kills her and the kid with his SUV. No cop would do anything like that just for a friend. I mean, they had him cussing behind the wheel just to show he was evil. We already got that. And could they had made the begginning of the movie where Slim meets Mitch any more cheesy.  They are shown to be some ideally happy couple, but all of a sudden he turns mean and hits her. To much of the background is left out.FINAL VERDICT This movie was a rip-off of Sleeping and the Enemy and Rocky.  It deserved to bomb at the box office and it did. J-Lo has had success as a singer, but let's face it, she has yet to be in a really good movie.  So, avoid this J-Lo turkey. "},{"Title":"cop-out","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tone down the violence a notch and this could play forever on Lifetime. J-Lo marries hunky Bill Campbell and they have a kid. Then years later she finds out he's cheating so he commences to beat the snot out of her, completely out of nowhere, and turn into a total jerk/psycho. Clue to the screenwriter human behavior doesn't turn on a dime like that. If a person is abusive, they don't wait five or six years before they start. Then Bill becomes one of those invincible/invisible stalker guys who outwits her at every turn and employs some shadowy guys to scare her and threaten everybody she turns to for help. So J-Lo, with some help from a sagging Fred Ward (the best thing in the movie, and that's saying a lot) goes and Rocky-ups in the best style, learning martial arts and cat burglar techniques so she can beat the holy moses out of Bill, only to falter at the moment of truth, so instead of crushing his skull with a stone cutting board instead she has to spare him so he can get the drop on her and then plunge to his death like a Disney villain. That way J-Lo gets to have her cake and eat it too she gets the moral high ground because she decided not to kill him, but he ended up dead anyway.This movie was made using the straight idiot plot. Nothing but an excuse for J-Lo to whoop ass at the end. zero out of ***** "},{"Title":"I don't like J.Lo, but I liked this film.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was actually pretty good. I am no J.LO fan and I really cannot stand her but I ended up liking this film. It started to make me mad when her husband started hitting her and his mother blamed it on her. (Why do the mothers of the husbands always blame the wife? Can anyone answer me that? God, that drives me crazy!). Anyways. J.LO takes her daughter (who is sooo cute) and flees. This movie was quite scary at times when it showed her in her new house and the camera filmed shots that looked like there was someone peeking around the corner and you're like oh my god, her husband's in there! The martial arts scenes were good and the ending made me soo happy. She kicked her husband's ass didn't she! Well, I'm not gonna say too much more about this movie except it was good and J.Lo should make more movies like this. Thanks for reading my review!! Bye!! "},{"Title":"Better than these critics claim...","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Again, someone doesn't like J-Lo, so they trash her films. GET OFF IT! If you  don't like her, don't see her friggin' movies and waste our time here with your  pointless character assassination. This movie is better than Sleeping with the Enemy, even if it is of the same  genre.  It's more compelling, because there's a child involved. I'm a parent, so  this film really struck home. As for Campbell's character changing midstream, without warning, - ithappens. Totally believable.  I sat through this film with my gut in knots.I loved the ending- a real crowd pleaser, no doubt.  My only complaint- they tried to use Washington exteriors as a substitute for  upper Michigan in the outdoor scenes. I know upper Michigan way too well tohave been fooled in the slightest- but I'm being picky. Most people won't notice. J-Lo's best performance to date. Billy Campbell is great, and I always love to  see Fred Ward. 7 outta 10- You go girl. "},{"Title":"It was just off...","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let me just start out that i do not hate Jennifer Lopez in any way.In fact, i even enjoy a few of her songs. But ENOUGH was definitely not one of her shining moments. She was great in OUT OF SIGHT, okay enough in WEDDING PLANNER, but this movie tanked... Her portrayal of the wounded but I WILL FIGHT! Slim was not as convincing. Infact, it was tiring to watch. The movie dragged and lacked development. The characters were one-dimensional, having no development at all. The plot was predictable as well! There were also some parts in the movie that was just NOT realistic. Redeeming factor about is Billy Campbell's performance as the sadistic husband from hell. "},{"Title":"It was just off...","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let me just start out that i do not hate Jennifer Lopez in any way.In fact, i even enjoy a few of her songs. But ENOUGH was definitely not one of her shining moments. She was great in OUT OF SIGHT, okay enough in WEDDING PLANNER, but this movie tanked... Her portrayal of the wounded but I WILL FIGHT! Slim was not as convincing. Infact, it was tiring to watch. The movie dragged and lacked development. The characters were one-dimensional, having no development at all. The plot was predictable as well! There were also some parts in the movie that was just NOT realistic. Redeeming factor about is Billy Campbell's performance as the sadistic husband from hell. "},{"Title":"Thrills, action and justice","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If watching someone beat up his wife gets you up and rooting for spontaneous acts of random violence against the perpetrator - if spousal abuse gets you rooting for the good guy (or in most cases the good lady) this is your movie. Bad things happen to bad people.If you believe sisters can do it for themselves and that strong women on the big and small screen are a plus - this is your movie.If you like it when you think you know the outcome of a movie but spend over 100 minutes of nailbiting thrills and anguish anyway - this is your movie.If you like a good entertaining movie.... this is your movie. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is bad. Real bad. How bad? So bad, it will probably be in the regular rotation of Lifetime Channel weekend movies some two or three years hence.It's worse than bad. It's offensive. Yes, you can escape your abusive spouse, too - IF you have a rich friend to bankroll your escape, and IF you have a long-lost father who is an underworld thug with a heart of gold who makes it possible for you to learn butt-kicking skills from a professional. Domestic violence is a serious subject, played here for cheap thrills. Yeah, it's supposed to be a revenge fantasy, but it's laughable.It's so bad that the villain says things like I'm a man who gets what he wants. Who articulates his whole theory of abuse I'm bigger and stronger than you, so I can. Who had no psychological shadings at all. He might as well have worn a handlebar mustache and laughed maniacally.It's so bad that the (possible) romantic lead spends the movie complaining about how bad he is in bed. It's so bad that J-Lo shuts him up by saying You're not that bad. Ugh.It's bad because this isn't a story about domestic abuse, or about revenge. It's about Jennifer Lopez being abused and taking revenge. This isn't a movie, it's a star vehicle (they give her a cute name, Slim) , and it becomes offensive because the ostensible subject matter is so poorly handled.It's bad. "}{"Title":"Once again Hollywood has to stuff things up","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first half of the movie is quite good, showing the abuse and JLo's reactions (or lack of it) which I thinks what happens in real life. Her unwillingness to report to the police at first to protect her husband then later to protect herself and her kid. However Hollywood suddenly made the husband the Saddam Hussien of all husbands, with all his low life connections and no redeeming quality.I find it hard that someone that rich and smart cannot find a way to legally trap JLo or at least have a better plan (maybe it is asking too much for a better movie script). (maybe it is a deliberate feminist joke that in the movie, Noah Wyle's character said that Slim is just a waitress and she is stupid while all the time it is Mitch who made all the stupid moves and Slim at the end making the right ones). Also Slim runs away from the 'rich, strong and confident' bad guy to the 'poor, weak and quiet' good guy, Joe, like some bad teen movie.I wish JLo would get better scripts (like Ashley Judd's Double Jeopardy, which was so much more believable. I guess Hollywood is scared of showing a women fight back with a gun, just being PC with all the gun violence) especially when she has already been in a few good movies to start a career. Its suppose to go the other way, bad movies first, get famous and get the good scripts. Overall a good potential movie, getting screwed by typical Hollywood treatment.    "},{"Title":"Exactly Like A Lifetime Channel Movie","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enough reminded me of a movie that you would see on Lifetime. It had a woman who had to escape the abusive behavior of her husband with her child and when the fight scene arrived, it was all about how women are just as tough as men, etc.,etc. This movie looks so good when you see the trailers for it but I was disappointed when I saw the actual thing. You would think it would be an intense, action/thriller, but instead it's just another big chick flick. "},{"Title":"Plot holes and bad acting sink film","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A standard issue woman in jeopardy thriller casts Jennifer Lopez as a seemingly together woman who married a psyco played by Billy Campbell and then proceeds to try to evade him for the rest of the film. Similar in story and style to the Julia Roberts effort Sleeping with the Enemy this film features a poor performance from Lopez, whose acting abilities seem to have been negatively affected by her preoccupation with her music career. Campbell, playing against type, is believable as the bad guy, but the storyline has so many coincindences and just plain inprobable plot turns that is becomes extremely hard to believe. A bit of a misfire. GRADE C- "},{"Title":"Exactly!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ENOUGH (2002) * Jennifer Lopez, Billy Campbell, Juliette Lewis,  Dan Futterman, Tessa Allen, Noah Wyle, Fred Ward,  Bill Cobbs.  Ludicrous melodrama tailor-made to diva Lopez sets like an ill-fitting suit casting her as a woman of apparent no intelligence nor common sense when she finds out her all-too-perfect husband (Campbell somewhat miscast) is a sadistic abuser/womanizing sociopath (!) The film belabors the fact that Lopez is in over her head with some truly ridiculous dialogue and idiotic situations (would it have killed her character to call a cop instead of dragging her small child across the country??)  I'm sure there is a film somewhere to be made about the horrors of domestic abuse but this ain't it.  (Dir Michael Apted)  "},{"Title":"By the numbers, but watchable","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Beautiful waitress Slim (Jennifer Lopez) meets Mitch (tall, handsome, muscular Billy Campbell). In the space of 20 minutes screen time (along with silly little title cards), they fall in love, get married, buy a house and have a kid who is about 6 when the story really begins. Turns out that Mitch is cheating on Slim. When she confronts him with evidence he beats her (within a PG-13 rating). She tries to run, but he always finds her. What will she do? Beat the crap out of him!An OK thriller but it has gaping plot holes and huge implausibilities--for instance, Campbell would cheat on sexy, beautiful Lopez????? Come on! He also finds her way too easily each time she runs away and, at the climax, she learns how to break into his house and totally fix it so he can't get away. Also seeing small, thin Lopez beat up Campbell looks more than a little laughable and it does seem to trivialize wife beating. I have a definite problem with that.Still, it's not too bad. Lopez is good and Campbell (cast totally against type) is exceptional. There's also strong supporting roles from Juliette Lewis and Dan Futterman.So, an OK movie. Wait for the DVD or video. "},{"Title":"Well, enough is definitely, enough!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez has continued to prove over and over again that she has the talent to be put on the A list of top actresses.  This movie is very Ashley Juddish in nature, but it indeed was a good movie and J Lo. did a good job of portraying a battered woman.  Noah Wyle on the other hand is totally out of character for playing that of a sadistical ass.  What can you say.  And Billy Campbell, I thought something was fishy about that whole scene in the diner where Noah was trying to pick her up and to later have it confirmed that they were the guys in there betting on who could sleep with her first.  Billy Campbell , played his role exceptionally well.  Billy Campbell, welcome to the ' D. W. Moffett ' era.  Well done "},{"Title":"Go ahead and skip this one...","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was about a deceiving male-chauvinist who tricked his wife into thinking that he loved her. After years of marriage the fact that he's cheating on her becomes evident to her and she wants to leave but he still wants her. He never says he'll stop cheating on her, and in fact he doesn't intend to and he makes that evident as well. She sees how crazy he really is, and will not stop until her and her child or safe and without him.Very poorly told&#133; Very bad acting&#133; Very predictable&#133; This film isn't something you should ever worry about seeing. There's absolutely nothing special about it. Really the only thing that keeps your attention is the fact that her husband is VERY bluntly chauvinistic&#133; Go ahead and pass on this one unless you're really bored, or just don't feel like watching a good film&#133; "},{"Title":"They live a model marriage.  Then everything goes bad.  Can she survive?","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is great! People just don't understand how often this occurs in real life. This movie gives hope to those in a situation like this and those in the middle of getting out. My mom and I both LOVE this movie. It's one of our many favorites! I encourage every women to see this if you haven't already. This movie is off the hook! If you don't trust my opinion see it yourself! I rarely buy movies unless I think they are good enough, which is rare for me. This is a buy worthy movie. If you are still reading this, stop right now, sign off the internet and go see the movie (rent the movie if your not sure you'll like it). Trust me on this, you will not regret it. Still reading? Hurry up! Go see this movie. "},{"Title":"A women, who flees from her abusive husband, finds the strength and courage to fight back","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of Jennifer Lopez's best films. It is about a woman named Slim (J.Lo), who is a simple waitress. One day she is flattered by a guy and coming to her rescue is Mitch (Bill Campbell), who impresses her so much that they get married, buy a beautiful house, and have a daughter. It seems like seems life is perfect for Slim until one day she discovered that her husband was having an affair. She let it slide until she caught him again. She starts yelling at him and he hits her. After hearing from her friends at the restaurant that's she is unsafe, she leaves with her daughter and goes everywhere to safety. No matter where she goes Mitch always manages to find her. Finally she goes to the police and after hearing that she can't do anything about it, she gets training and money to buy all the equipment she needs to take him down. She plants letters in her husband's drawers, throws away all of Mitch's guns and knives, and waits for him to come home. She lets him know that she's not afraid and fights back! She kills him and makes it look like self-defense. The movie is a great thriller and puts a lot of meaning to it. This is the movie for all women who has been abused. "},{"Title":"Predictable yet still tense and ultimately satisfying","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yesterday, I came accross this film while I was lying down flipping channels, looking for something to put on TV in the background so I could take a nap.  I had rejected the movie in the past, as it looked like a reworking of Julia Roberts' Sleeping with the Enemy.  Well, although I was not wrong on that point, I quickly got sucked into this film and suffice it to say, did not take that nap.The movie was very tense, I found my heart beating throughout-- the filmmakers were doing something right to make me feel that way, particularly since nothing was terribly shocking and most of the film was somewhat predictable (especially having seen Sleeping with the Enemy).  I was so intrigued that I had to watch clear through to the ending to see how things played out and to watch the climactic revenge sequence.  It didn't disappoint in the least.Part of the intrigue was that the husband/antagonist played by Bill Campbell was just so loathesome, I was determined to see him suffer.  He was arguably even more evil than the awful husband in Sleeping with the Enemy (possibly because there was a child involved here), although the character was somewhat less realistic. The husband in SWTE was an obsessive compulsive, psychotic control freak, while it was hard to pinpoint Campbell's motives for the abuse-- he just was that way and he knew it and didn't care.Overall, this is not a cinematic masterpiece, but it does deliver on a number of levels, if you're in the mood for such a film.  I rate a 6/10. "}{"Title":"Weak...really, really weak!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OK...even though this film seemed totally predictable I am all for a woman kicking a man's butt so I went...WOW...this was really sad...the writing I mean...The dialouge is terrible...JLo isn't very much of an actress in this although she is really trying (just not selling it)...The fact that it takes only 1 month for this woman to take on someone so much stronger than her is quite misleading (even for Hollywood)...The actress that plays the little girl is excellent however...and I'm sure she made much less many than Ms. Lopez... I actually found myself laughing at the end of this...it was so damn silly! If you want to see a kick ass woman watch ALIENS or TIMES SQUARE. "},{"Title":"We don't have to take it anymore !","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie for any woman who has ever been hit or terrorized by a man she thought she loved. It shows you have choices and you do not have to stay a victim. When I saw the movie, women were cheering in the audience. I also liked how they balanced his violence with the other men in her life's kindness. "},{"Title":"I was surprised I didn't have enough of Enough. 6/10","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enough had all the ingredients to be the worst film of the year a cheesy premise, a child actor, and of course Billy Campbell playing a bad guy. At times Enough surprises, this isn't Taxi Driver, but at the same time, its not Behind Enemy Lines (the worst film of last year).  I hated how the film began to use title cards every five minutes(!), but then 45 minutes into the film they just stopped.J-Lo will probably not be remembered for her work in this film; although she isn't TERRIBLE.  She's not that good either.  She's shown much more potential in other films (The Cell).I was a bit surprised with how the film handled its material.  It doesn't go overboard and make the abusive husband unbelievable, in fact I found his character to be quite real.  He isn't some movie monster who will kill anything in his way to get his wife; he's much more subdued.  Enough is nothing more then a feminist's fantasy come to life; but for being that, it kind of works.  Worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Male bashing chick flick in Disguise","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was nothing like Farrah Fawcett's The Burning Bed. That film had power and made you feel just how helpless Francine Hughes was against her abusive husband. The only way Francine thought she could get out was to burn her husband as he slept otherwise she would have been killed for sure sooner OR later. Enough is nothing more than a male bashing chick flick that sends the wrong message, which is if your husband beats you learn how to fight and punch back. Nice advice...punch back and see how fast your abusive husband kills you. This film is not realistic and in my view makes a mockery of The Burning Bed. Jennifer Lopez is not a good actress and is not convincing as an abused wife. When she learns how to fight and kicks her hubbys A@^ I wanted to throw something at the screen. This is not reality people but some cheap thrill ride. "},{"Title":"Lopez  Was Fantastic","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jennifer Lopez (Slim Hiller),The Cell, 2000, gave an outstanding performance as a waitress in a diner who becomes star struck with Bill Campbell(Mitch Hiller), who happens to visit the diner and manages to spring a web of wealth and love all around Slim Hiller and a sweet daughter is even born from their marriage. Slim Hiller is completely happy and content, until she listens into a cell phone and problems seem to steam roll into a complete disaster. Mitch Hiller and Slim seem to run from one place to another and it seems to never end. Eventually Slim decides to get some lessons in defense and the film starts all over again and has some very thrilling events. Jennifer Lopez is very sexy and beautiful and gives a great acting performance along with a great cast of supporting actors. This is a very entertaining film, very exciting and keeps you on the complete edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez Kicks Butt","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oneday at school our girls gym class started a unit based on woman in abusive relationships and the teacher brought in this new video called Enough. After watching it that day I found it to be both an exciting and dramatic thriller. Slim, (Lopez) a young working class waitress thought that her life had turned into a fairytale when she married Mitch Hiller (Campbell) a successful and wealthy contractor, they settled into a perfect suburban lifestyle and she gave birth to their beautiful daughter Gracie (Allen).But five years later Mitch begins to show an unknown side of himself which is a controlling and abusive monster who starts beating her up. Now Slim fears not only for herself but for her daughter too they escape but no before Mitch and his gang of sadistic henchmen try to find them. After numerous attempts to start a new life he finds and threatens her again. After seeking help from her absent father Jupiter (Ward) she puts Gracie into hiding with her best friend Ginny (Lewis) and sets out determined to prove once and for all to her husband that she's had enough. Jennifer Lopez's performance as a new kind of action hero is electrifying and fantastic 7/10 "},{"Title":"The name says it all ENOUGH reasons not to watch it.","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The name says it all there are ENOUGH reasons not to watch it. Like it isn't ENOUGH that it is a jennifer lopez movie, it is still about a woman who gets beat up by her husband constantly, and decides to learn how to fight, in order to defend herself. That is the reasons why wars begin!!! Someone attacks, the other one fights back with more violence! Therefore, this movie is nothing but motivation to violent actions! Please! No more jennifer lopez movies! ENOUGH! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love bad movies, I grew up on them. Only a certain type of bad movie though, some of them are just boring but Enough has it. Bad acting, ridiculous situations, cheesy music, characters that do things that make no sense, etc. There is one problem w/ this movie though, it bothered me the 1st time I saw it because it deals w/ a serious subject and it sends some very bad messages to women in Slim's situation. A very exploitive movie. You would like to think that a battered woman would be offended w/ this cheap manipulative garbage but apparently, they're aloud to have bad taste in movies just like most of the people in the world. Anyway, Jennifer Lopez gives a terrible, terrible performance and shows absolutely no range whatsoever. Billy Campbell comes off as some kind of comic book super villain and makes you wonder, how could he hide the fact that he's such a bast@rd from her for as long as he did? But who cares, there's tons of laughs in this flick. The scene where Slim receives her first beatdown is a riot from start to finish. There's just too many funny sequences in this movie to list them all. A must see for any fan of bad movies. I make sure to catch it every time it's on and I'm thinking about buying the DVD. Anaconda was a classic bad movie, add Enough to that classic list & I think I might have to check out Maid In Manhattan, Angel Eyes, Wedding Planner & Gigli and have a J Lo festival. "},{"Title":"A disaster.  The worst of 2002.","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What follows could spoil the 'surprises' in this movie. -----'Enough' is the type of movie that really deserves a zero-star rating. Many reviewers give the zero only to movies that are immoral or unethical in addition to just being poorly made and unenjoyable.  In this film, an abused woman is told by a lawyer that there's no way the law can help her situation.  The police tell her that they can't do anything to stop her husband's death threats.  Lopez's character says that she doesn't want to go to a battered women's shelter because it will upset her daughter too much. Instead, she takes the girl on a number of cross country trips to confuse her super-human abuser.In addition to throwing in every possible cliche (complete with training montage in run-down gym!  Does any gym in the real world have medicine balls anymore?), the purpose of this movie seems to be to convince battered women that their only option is to arrange a poorly-conceived bareknuckle showdown with their abusers.  In a word repulsive. "},{"Title":"Not Good Enough!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Throughout the last two years, Mrs. Chris Judd has really picked some dud films to star in. Oops! Sorry J-Lo! I guess I cannot call you that anymore. First, things did not go exactly as planned in the romantic stinker `The Wedding Planner'. Then, I was blinded to sleep in the boring psychological so-called thriller `Angel Eyes'. Now J-Lo stars in `Enough'- a domestic violence drama about a waitress seeking revenge on her abusing husband. This formulaic films lacks originality, substance, and creativity. Billy Campbell, from the tv show `Once and Again', plays the abusive husband. Mr. Campbell was quite menacing at times, but unfortunately we have seen this type of role once and again way too many times. As far as J-Lo goes, who was so promising in such earlier films as `Out of Sight' and `Selena', she needs to be more selective in the roles she picks. So J-Lo, please enough of these terrible films! Because as a former big fan of yours , now every time I see one of your latest films I feel like an old van halen song- `J-Me' is crying.  ** Needs Improvement "}{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez has proven herself!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez has proven that she is a wonderful actress in this movie. This was an intense movie that had you on the edge of your seat. Even though the script wasn't the greatest, it was still a thrilling movie. Jennifer Lopez does well playing a mom and a battered wife. It was easy to believe her and sympathize her. Bill Campbell was a very good bad guy and it was very easy to hate him. Tessa Allen was very adorable and you couldn't help feeling terrible for her. I think this was a great movie! "},{"Title":"Feminist Action Fantasy - Ludicrous","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a feminist action fantasy that is ludicrous and laughable. The topic of domestic violence is anything but funny. But this movie is anything but serious about it. Giving young women the impression that they are tougher than their husbands is a really bad idea. If anything domestic violence will escalate because of this movie. And in reality we know who will lose. "},{"Title":"Great movie; Jennifer Lopez's acting is brilliant!!","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In this 2002 movie, Enough, Jennifer Lopez plays Slim, a young lady who works as a cafeteria waitress. Slim meets and marries Mitch, a guy who works in a construction business. They have a daughter, and then, after a while, Slim discovers that Mitch is cheating on her by seeing a French girl, named Darcell (sounds like Duracell). She confronts him about it and gets hit for it. Soon afterwards, she gets bullied and mistreated by her cheating husband. He continues to beat her up; throughout the movie, you see for yourself that Mitch is the kind of guy that NO woman should date or be married to. One possible factor, regarding Mitch's abuse towards Slim, in my opinion, could be that when he was growing up, his mother probably didn't teach him that when he dates a woman and/or marries her, he can't abuse her. What I find appalling in this movie is the scene where Slim goes to her mother-in-law's house and she notices the thick scratch mark on Slim's cheek. What the mother-in-law asks Slim is very stupid What did you do? What did you say? (You will immediately have a look on your face saying What are you talking about, woman?!) Mitch's mother somehow failed to realize that Slim was beaten by him. Anyway, Slim does what she can to get herself (with Gracie, the daughter in tow) away from the evil acts of her husband. There is another disturbing scene in this movie when Slim finds out that her credit cards can't be used due to her funds being frozen in her bank account (you obviously know who was the responsible party for that). Her husband enlists the aid of dangerous henchmen to get Slim and Gracie almost non-stop. So, Slim takes a one-on-one self-defense class so that she can protect herself from Mitch. At the end of the movie, you know without a doubt that Slim is telling Mitch that she's had enough by beating him up so much that his life is over!! This movie could be a lesson to women to help them get away from abusive boyfriends or spouses. No woman of any age deserves to be mistreated by her boyfriend or spouse. Get this movie and see Jennifer Lopez's action in the climax!! You will really be thrilled to see her character's self-defense moves!!!! "},{"Title":"An actress she is not!","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez is so bad in this movie that I actually felt sorry for her. I don't blame her for taking the money she is offered for these roles, but her acting abilities are so limited that she struggles with conveying even the most basic emotional variances. The final, supposedly climatic scene is so funny and farcical that I would love to see the outtakes just to see how many times J Lo and Billy Campbell had to re-shoot the scenes because they were laughing so hard.I can't imagine anyone other than a Jennifer can do no wrong fan or someone who just wants to see a bad guy get his tail kicked by a wronged woman wanting to watch this movie.   Please Jennifer - stick to singing!  "},{"Title":"Everyone has a limit. And this piece of s*** crossed mine. And kept going.","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" by Dane YoussefOH, GOD! ENOUGH!!! YUCHHHHHHH!!!!Is it actually possible to spoil this movie for anyone? I don't think so. Not really. Anyone with a working brain cell can pretty much figure out exactly how this one is gonna go. And one working brain cell is a lot more than this one has. Technically, if you've seen the trailer, you've seen the movie. I saw the trailer, so... yeah, I pretty much saw this one coming from space. I saw the movie (my father rented it on a slow work night). Yeah, I was right.What audience is this for really? Women? Young girls? J-Lo fans? Stupid ones? Females who wanna see a woman kick a guy's ass, after he tortures here implausibly throughout the the whole f*****g flick?Oh s**t, I answered my own question.I was screaming the title out at the screen less than halfway through. And not in a good way. This movie represents cinematic s**t in it's purest form. This movie does not have viewers, only survivors.It's a stupid movie for stupid people. Very stupid. People who wouldn't be able to count to 10 if they didn't have that many fingers. For this movie to be worth watching, it should have been as short as it's trailer. J-Lo takes ten steps back.I mean, even Gigli was better than this crap. The movie is like watery broth with a single piece of meat floating in it... like a loan survivor lost at sea with no hope. To watch this putrid filth (or to at least enjoy it), you must love J-Lo (and I mean to the point where you'll gobble up anything she so much as peed on), you must be easily duped, preferably a woman... no, a young teenage girl who gets moist at the sight of watching a woman kick a guy's *ss... There are a lot of women out there like that... watching some chick kick a guy in the nuts. They'll see it and squeal, Right on, sister!You know what? To save you the trouble, here, let me just tell you the entire plot. Like the villain when everything has fallen in his favor They fall in love (he pulls something of a con), they get married. He cheats on her... he beats on her (although it's so spoon-fed, anybody with more than one brain-cell will feel insulted). He beats and cheats and beats and cheats... I'm a man who always gets what I want... he says right before he decks her for complaining about unfaithful he is. She goes to a gym and gets in shape... then kicks HIS *ss. Movie's over.Not soon ENOUGH, though.I know that the women out there looking for a positive female influence. A leader. Someone they can look up to. But to deal with themes like stalking and spousal abuse so routine... he tortures her to no end... just so she can beat the s**t out of him in the last couple minutes... I felt not so much sympathy for J-Lo's character Slim (by the way, it's J-Lo, so WHY would she honestly be named that??) as much as I felt hate for J-Lo herself and the rest of the filmmakers. This movie insulted my intelligence. And the intelligence of a lot of others. But some people's I.Q's were not insulted. Like my sister's and her friends.If you met them, you'd know why.Enough, J-Lo. Good luck with Jersey Girl. I know you and Ben will do great. Kevin Smith's name alone great movie.No where to go but up, right?by Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"Exploits and commercializes Domestic abuse...","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As one who's experienced the brash penalties and severities of domestic abuse upon women and what it has to offer, I can safely say this film is awful. This attempts to commercializes domestic abuse and exploit it into an action genre which is wrong. Domestic abuse isn't exciting, it isn't romantic, it's disgusting and it's a crime and the way it's depicted in the film is purely sophomoric. Though the last scenes of the film are fun to watch, regardless they shouldn't be included in a film about domestic abuse.(* out of ****) "},{"Title":"I had Enough after two minutes","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worse movies of recent memory, Enough says it all in the title.  Its a retread of something that didn't need to be done, and I have to state right here and now that Jennifer Lopez is the worse actress I've ever seen, possibly worse than Madonna, and that's going pretty far down.  She's an actual embarrassment on the screen and there is not one split second of believability in anything she does.  Billy Campbell, Juliette Lewis, director Michael Apted and screenwriter Nicolas Kazan are out of their minds if they think this movie has any value whatsoever.  It is particularly cruel to the child in the movie, who has to endure not only stupid parents, but parents who fight and swear in front of her. It seems to be made by idiots, for idiots.  All the scenes in the beginning are TITLED, as though you might need that in order to figure out what is going on.  Campbell shows his true colors right away, when he knocks on the door of a house he's interested in buying and explains to the owner that he had better move out ASAP or he'll have to contend with him for the rest of his life.  So if a person has those capabilites, why would their spouse be surprised that he has those CAPABILITES THAT HE'S ALREADY EXHIBITED?  He excuses himself for cheating with the I'm a man line that's older than sin itself, and not only does he want to be able to continue to cheat, he wants wifey to grin and bear it.  Just horrible.  J Low, how far can you go?  1/10. "},{"Title":"Oh so bad!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A complete waste of $8.50 Bad acting Bad story Bad Movie. All in all a waste of time in less you like seeing J-Lo getting beat up and then beating up the bad guy! They should have called this movie Sleeping with the enemy 2 because it was just as bad as the average follow up movie! "},{"Title":"Pretty good thriller","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's not Oscar worthy material, but Enough is a pretty enjoyable flick.  It keeps you on the edge of your seat for most of it, and if you're a fan of Jennifer Lopez (like me) it's definitely a great movie.  Sometimes, I wish Jennifer would explore her talents more and find work that's up to her level, like Out of Sight, but this film was not a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Enough (spoiler)","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this is the summary I read about it An abused woman (Lopez) discovers that the dream man (Campbell) she married wasn't whom she thought he was. She and her daughter try to escape (such as to her previous boyfriend played by Futterman), but he pursues relentlessly. Fearing also for the safety of her daughter, she decides that there's only one way out of the marriage kill him.my comment on it is this she is a murder and this movie just says hell we was hurt and instead of going to the Cops or the Dept. Human and Family(may be called some thing else where you live) she goes to a under ground railroad for women.and even though he followed her. However two wrongs do not make a right and should have had the Cops taken care of it.she was a murder and then gets away with it.after all this movie only says if you are a woman then then get abused by your husband and even though they get away from them you can get revenge and murder him in Ice Cold Blooded Murder and then claim it was to protect your selfthink about it she hides his Blades (smart) but then she took out his phones, then starts to hit him because he did not strike first and then after calling names he lost his cool and after a short fight she murders him.so thats why I rated it 1.now don't get me wrong, men should never hit women but killing is flat out wrong. "}{"Title":"Ban J-Lo!! Total garbage from the over-commercial J-LO","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  J-Lo is evil. First she wanted to appeal to the Latino market, telling everybody she came from latino areas of the bronx. Then she wanted to suck up to the African American audience, so she marries a black man, like P-diddy when he was popular. When she wants to suck up to the white audience, she dates Ben Affleck, because his career goes up. She made The wedding planner, a romantic piece of garbage made for the female market. And now she wants to appeal to(abused) women with this how to learn to kick your husband in 3 weeks  piece of utter trash.Believe me, she is pure evil and will stop at nothing to earn money. Even when doing a charity event she has a 45.000 dollar wishlist. There is proof on the internet about this. Please ban all her outings. "},{"Title":"IT WAS GREAT!!!","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Though it was Hollywood, it was great. It definiteley kept me on the edge of my seat. Not to mention the compassion I felt for such a beautiful, strong woman fighting for her life, as well as her daughters. It showed that women can do something about an abusive relationship, THOUGH it can be extremely difficult. The whole way through, I was shouting GO J-LO!!!...you go girl, kick some serious butt!!! "},{"Title":"Not just bad, absolutely HORRIBLE!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I watched the preview for this movie, everyone in the theater groaned with disgust at how ridiculously bad this movie looked.  My girlfriend is latino, and she really wanted to see this movie, so I agreed.  I knew it would be horrible, but I didn't want to ruin it for her.Long story short, my girlfriend thought this movie was the worst pile of garbage that Hollywood has puked out in a long while.  She used to kind of like J-Lo, but now she agrees with me that she has no talent.  We both think that this movie wouldn't even be good if it were made by like ABC as a movie of the week.Horrible idea, horrible story, horrible acting, horrible message.Hitting a woman is wrong, and everybody knows that.  I guess hitting a man is okay, if you think he deserves it.  So, in poor little J-Lo's case, two wrongs make it right!  Yeah J-Lo, waste your time training so that you can kick his ass!  Two wrongs don't make a right, but they do make for a horrible movie.I have news for all of you women out there taking classes in boxing or kick-boxing or cardio-boxing;  YOU CAN'T KICK ANYONE'S ASS!!!  Your attacker will not stand there like your trainer and say, That's it!  Give me two more!  Showing J-Lo's ass in the gym doesn't give me the impression that she can even defend herself, much less beat anyone up. She would have problems with an average woman off the street!I guess that this movie is like a woman's fantasy or something, because there is no way in hell that this type of story could happen in real life. It's a good thing that more women don't share this fantasy, or they would be getting their asses kicked up and down the street.It is important to note that men should never hit a woman.  Also, it is important for women to know that they should never hit a man.  Violence solves nothing.  If you want to be a strong woman, don't try to learn how to fight.  You will never be able to kick a man's ass.  Be a strong woman, and have the strength to walk away from a bad situation.This movie has nothing to offer anyone.  It's a waste of time for anybody to watch it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Well Done","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This vehicle to aid JLo as a serious actress was much better then I hoped for.  She seems to have progressed and is actually WORKING towards better acting.  Billy Campbell once again showed his range and depth are up to even being a villain. He worked the control flaws in the character as VERY believable.  Noah Wiley obviously took a role trying to break away from being typecast, he does seedy well also!  Bruce A. Young ( The boxing trainer) was intense and appropriate for the scene, it was interesting to keep using his voice over to aid the character later in the film.This film was more believable because the motivation of a mother defending her young.  It is a shame that it also provided the idea that you can only escape abuse if you have a big financier behind you.  The rich dad was a gimmick the film could have done WELL without. "},{"Title":"very convincing!!","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  the plot of the movie is a well know story, but how convincing Jennifer Lopez playes her role made the movie one of the best i have ever seen!!!! i bought it on dvd and watching it it hold me in my chair, without thinking of making coffee usually at that time. i was fascinated from the beginning to the end and watched her music video clip too!!!!!when others say she cannot sing, i mean she can sing and that has nothing to do with her outfit!!!!! after that all was finished i had time for my coffee and i'm convinced that Jennifer has a big future as singer and actress!!!! "},{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez says Enough","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez gives an outstanding performance.  Jenn plays Slim, an abused wife who says Enough.  Jennifer gives the character exactly what you need, Vulnerability and Strength.  Billy Campbell gives an amazing performace as Slim's jerky husband Mitch.  Billy plays a great bad guy. Surprise performances go to Tessa Allen, who plays Mitch and Slim's daughter.  Not only is Tessa adorable, but she totally comes through on the emotions.  The other surprise performance goes to Noah Wyle, who also plays an excellent bad guy!  In one sentence i can definitly say  Go,J.Lo, Go! "},{"Title":"half way through you'll scream enough!","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'll start with the tagline on the front of the DVD. Everyone has a limit. This makes it seem like Jenny put up with abuse for a long time.... but nope, she got hit once and that was her limit. Misleading already. I have many qualms with this movie but i'll just point out a couple because it's not worth watching again to pick them all out. First, J-Lo's name is Slim.... misleading again. The second half of the movie is where it gets really frustrating. Jennifer trains for what seems to be a week or two (with a billy blanks impersonator) and is suddenly G.I. Jane. / Super Ninja / 007. She now can block cell phones, pick locks, hide in rafters / scale walls / use gadgets to find guns / beat up a large man / plant evidence to stage her master scheme. If you want a fantasy watch the passion or this one. If you want a quality suspense movie, pass on it. "},{"Title":"best movie i've ever seen. kept me on the edge of my seat.","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  jennifer lopez is hot. besides when she cuts her hair in the movie. terrible look for her. GREAT MOVIE!!!!! It was sooo suspensfull. i was curled up in a ball the whole time. Go See Enough with Jennifer Lopez!!!!!! I went to a sneak preview of the movie and I has sooo much fun. You should go see for youself how good the movie is. "},{"Title":"Worthless!","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" *LOTS OF SPOILERS* Do you hate men? I mean, really REALLY hate men? If so, this movie is for you! JLo (in her worst role ever) plays Slim, a woman that has been slapped around by her husband a couple times. Does she make an effort to get the police involved? Does she file for divorce? Of course not... she instead flees with her daughter, creates an assumed name, and takes boxing lessons. Why get a restraining order when you can take the law into your own hands? JLo begins her training, and in a month's time, has evolved from a suburban housewife into a prizefighter. Hurray! Let the ass-kicking begin! But why stop at beating the husband half to death, why not kill him as well? That sounds reasonable, right? And, to top it all off, after completing the premeditated murder, the police just give JLo a reassuring smile and deem her one of the lucky ones. What a happy ending! What a ridiculous piece of garbage. "},{"Title":"A terrible movie","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This really was one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  There are massive holes in the plot, the story line isn't fully explained, and let's face it, Jennifer Lopez can't act at all.  At least she looked hot in that movie she did with George Clooney.  This is the kind of movie that makes me wish IMDB had a zero rating. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable movie","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When you watch this movie is has a slow start. It balances between a tragedy and a thriller. I like the way Lopez creates a typical character, and especially the scene at the police station, where she finds out there is not really an option by going to the police, and report her (child)abuse.Seeing that last scene, you start wandering why she doesn't go to a lawyer, gets a divorce (and the 1/2 of his fortune probably) and hide with the child? When she is on the run, the good stuff starts for me, because you know that her husband simply will not accept this. And comes after her. But she got wise! The best scene for me is the part where she uses a specially prepared watch, containing (pepper?)spray, and the paperings she did for her escapes.All and all you might enjoy this movie, it's not a 'must', but if you are bored, then this is nice entertainment for a while. "},{"Title":"An intense flick!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"15 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  J-Lo is low key, but determined to save hersef and her young daughter from a husband who gets what he wants, no matter what it is.  And he will do whatever he thinks it will take. Billy Campbell and Noah Wiley are fun to watch as TV good guys gone really bad.  I love the part of Jupiter; it is unfortunate that the part was not more substantial. The best aspect of the movie is that J-Lo's character, although a waitress, is extremely intelligent.  The steps she takes for protection are clever and well thought out. Viewers may question why she doesn't just blow the guy away, but I think that she would have a hard time explaining how she got a gun, since she never had one before.  Besides, I think she got beter closure her way! The audience clapped at the end of this one. "},{"Title":"I couldn't get Enough of this movie","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"21 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the many set backs one may anticipate for this movie (JLo's back acting, Sleeping with Enemy has already been done, shaky supporting cast) this movie actually turns out to be quite captivating.The premise is Slim (Jennifer Lopez) falls for a driven man who, at first, appears to be the knight she was waiting for her whole life.  She starts getting upset when he openly has affairs and begins to be abused by her husband (the nice guy from the now canceled Once and Again).  After he threatens her life, she decides that she needs to escape him completely to protect herself and the life of her little girl.The suspense level is kept high because the husband's level of evil is unparralled and Slim continues to outwit him.  The actress who plays her daughter did a great job as did Juliette Lewis (where did she go?)If you look for flaws, they will be easy to find.  (Why does JLo call her mother in law when she is trying to break free from her husband?).  But if you just accept the movie for the shear movie going experience, you will enjoy the show.My wife dragged me along and I enjoyed it as much as her.  I believe that I have written ENOUGH.  Ha Ha Ha. "},{"Title":"This is a perfect reason why we don't need critics!","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"28 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What more can you want for your money then an enjoyable few hours with J Lo in a very suspenseful movie that has the audience howling with joy at the end. The critics are simply one man's opinion, yet they carry so much weight. I say get rid of all of them and let the people decide like in this poll. J Lo was terrific and her co-star Billy Campbell was  delight as the bad guy. Noah Wyle was also wonderful in his role. I don't know what in the hell the critics want. Maybe it is because they see so many movies that they just go in not wanting to like it because of the predjuice against a new actress.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"fox on the run","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" okay,..the singer J-Lo is/was a media hungry ho(it's funny cuz it's true), but the actress Jennifer Lopez is a talented and foxey woman.Just check out U-Turn,Selena,or The Cell.This time around the evildoer isn't her aging mother in-law but her once charming and rich(very rich)husband and father of her little girl Gracie.After our hero Slim finds out her womanizing hubby also gets off on using her as a punching bag she gets chased(w/ Gracie in tow) from one hiding place to another w/ a little help from her friends.Following a harrowing car chase and an attempted murder by her former flame she gets smart and talks to an atty(who won't even take her money - Wow!) .The counselor tells her it's all too late and the custody hearing for her daughter is probably just a trap and a set-up which will lead to her departure from this life.Now our girl decides to get tough and rock and roll....; "},{"Title":"Predictable, but likable, too","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lots and lots of movies are predictable - sometimes that's a comfort. Even though I'm not a big Jennifer Lopez fan I thought she did a darned good job in this one. No worse than any girl gets abused, girl fights back movie - this one was good. For instance, Sleeping With the Enemy, featuring Julia Roberts was not really any more a stretch than this movie. Jennifer makes us think about how much butt kicking we'd take before we're done with it, and are going to take care of ourselves and our business! The acting was better than anything I've seen J-Lo do - much better than her comedy attempts, if you ask me. It also wasn't dependent on her, well - annoying accent. She didn't need to sound like a girl from the poor side of town to make this character worth checking out. Like I said, I liked it - you go girl! "},{"Title":"Oh, how I wish it was that easy...","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Life's system should wake up!  Stop making all these 'happy-ending' movies, and start working on doing something about it in real life.  It's not that easy at all J-Lo.  But I guess you're used to making these cinderella like movies and getting your 2 cents for happy endings.   "},{"Title":"Enough is Enough","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer Lopez needs to stop making these terrible movies. There is no reason to make this film. Throughout the whole film Jennifer's character is running from her husband, then she comes back, starts fighting him and ultimately kills him. This movie sends the wrong message and it doesn't make sense; she could have just called the cops.THE PLOT The plot is mostly about a woman and her child. The woman finds out that her husband is cheating on her, she decides to leave him, but then the husband goes suicidal and starts chasing her. Now Jennifer Lopez must summon the strength to fight back.This film was really stupid; I give it a 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Dear God...","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let us ignore the plot development for a moment, along with the poor acting, the ineffectual use of appeal to pity, and casting problems, all of which has been stated ad nauseum prior to this review. (spoilers abound)My biggest problem is the final scene.  Essentially, 'Slim' justifies her actions through a thirty second phone call to her friend, where she (the friend) makes the ludicrous claim that 'Slim' has an innate justification to defend her child from attackers.  A worthy and rather handy justification, but this is where the logic breaks down.Backtrack a little bit, and we find that Slim has her father hire a trainer to teach her some self defence tactics for a few weeks.  She then *breaks into* her husband's house, plants false evidence against him in the form of a letter asking her to come over, and proceeds to set up an ASSAULT against her husband.  In fact, as I understand it, the point of the assault is to kill the husband, and then claim it was self defence.So, what we have here is premeditated murder, evidence planting, and to make matters completely unbelievable, ***Slim hits Mitch FIRST***.  By this point the entire movie became an utter waste of time (as if we didn't know this like ten minutes into the film).At least double jeopardy had a good premise.  This is just plain illegal. Do not try this at home kids. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The names of the actors are Jennifer Lopez (Slim) and Billy Campbell (Mitch). Jennifer Lopez is a very famous singer and she has played in many films. The story of Enough is about a waitress who marries a rich engineer. Mitch is unfaithful to his wife. When Slim notices it, she saysenough. After Mitch has beaten her, she takes the chance to run away with her daughter. They move from North Michigan to San Francisco, Seattle and LA. We think that the film is very bad and that Jennifer Lopez is a very bad actress. The story line didn't convince us.E4 English class at the Thomas-Mann-Oberschule in Berlin Duygu, Richard, Jörn, Izmail "}{"Title":"Sleeping With The Enemy 2002","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Basically, this movie is just an updated version of Sleeping With The Enemy. Given that its a JLO movie, I expected it to be awful.  However, I found it to be halfway decent.  She still is a bad actress, but this could be one of her better roles. "},{"Title":"nonstop laughs...","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yeesh, this is as about as close to an unofficial slapstick film as you can get for something deemed a drama.  Lopez is the umpteenth woman beaten in the history of cinema, but this one even manages some new stuff in terms of its dumbness.  Like Campbell telling her that when he feels like sex with his mistress, she will see him off with a kiss and not care.  Or when he wants to hit, she'll understand it's him blowing off steam.  For some reason she actually accepts this for a handful of scenes before grabbing her daughter and skipping town.  Fortunately she has an army of rich people at her disposal who can set her up in an apartment....and rig a getaway path in case the husband shows up that includes a big stick that comes down and slams into his windshield!!!  Throw in a squint-inducing element of brainlessness involving Ward as Lopez's long lost father, and you've got almost all the elements for the best comedy of the year.  I say almost because the capper comes in the final scenes where Lopez, after taking a crash course in martial arts, puts up her hands like a cat to her hubby challenging him to duke it out.  One of the all-timer shots in movie history that makes you sputter big time.  They do manage a great moment of originality with a twist involving Wyle (who I was suprised to see), but other than that, this should've made the studio executives queasy upon release.  On guitly pleasure night with friends, rent this for much analysis inducing for all of you.  "},{"Title":"J-Lo is annoying","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is ridiculous. The whole movie is a you go girl salute to a woman who beats up her abusive husband at the end. The dialogue is cheesy and it turns both the man and his wife into colorless stereotypes with no originality. And personally, I think J-Lo is terrible in everything. Her husband in the movie was probably only beating her up because he saw Money Train. Affleck's an idiot for marrying her. Damon should shoot this thing down before Ben hits the bottle again. "},{"Title":"Well, it's entertaining, Sleeping With The Enemy was worse","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First do NOT see the trailer It's entertaining stuff and if you don't see the trailer you might be surprised one of two times. I liked it, sitting at home watching this movie. It's 30 minutes too long, maybe, but not that bad. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good Enough","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Enough is worth the money for the theater, rental and maybe the DVD.  The film has a over all felling that you barely see on movies from this kind, and that is what the law does when there is a person being abused in a household.  It seemed that they wanted to make this film a political issue to change some laws, who knows, well anyway that's why she took matters into her own hands; cause if the law can't help u, then you are the only weapon that can.  The acting was good but not excellent, just above average.  It is true that this film take pieces from other films especially at the end with Fight Girlfight.  So if you can see it, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Too Much!!!","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie takes all the well-worn cliches of the 1970's and 1980's Monday Night Movies and mixes them with suspense thriller cliches to form a laughable exercise in victimology replete with stick-figure beastly men, nice guys who like admitting how bad in bed they are, and a brutal husband who is just brutal for... well, brutality's sake, I suppose. And yes, there's even the triple fakeout, where the victim-protagonist thinks she hears something... but it's the wind. There it is again... but it's something else. Ah, but the third time's the charm! I don't know about Slim (Jennifer Lopez), but I saw every single punch coming in the third-act climax. And why not? It's all mapped out for us twenty minutes earlier. Without the extravagant costumes of THE CELL, Lopez is revealed for the mediocre actress she is. But the biggest problem is Nicholas Kazan's (Bicentennial Man; Fallen) script. "},{"Title":"It was ok...........","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you are a fan of utterly horrible acting, and not so great plot. This movie belongs in a dumpster where it came from.  It was so unrealistic i wanted to scream (and did) I know her husband is rich but pardon my french how the hell does he find her every time does he have a freakin' tracker tucked in her skin because i don't know. Then all of a sudden she gets what four weeks of training and she's ready to fight a guy twice her size, I'm sorry but she doesn't look fit to be fightin' a freakin' ten year old let alone a full grown man twice her size yes it is possible but with about 6 more months of training. "},{"Title":"Waste of time & money","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of the worst I've seen in a while. Besides being unrealistic, it was incredibly predictable.Probably the only redeeming qualities were the performances by Juliette Lewis and Noah Wiley.Don't waste your time or your money on this. "},{"Title":"Michael Apted, shame on you!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  *****SPOILERS***** I don't know what to say about this movie.  I'm not sure that there are words negative enough to reflect just how awful I thought this movie was. Let's start with Lopez's character, Slim (who comes up with these names?), who marries some guy that she meets in a diner, then it turns out that he's an abusive jerk.  Which is why you don't get involved with strange guys who you meet in a diner, but it's not like we really care, because the character development is non-existant.  They both stay the same one-dimensional characters throughout the film.  At the end, where Slim finally decides to stand her ground, the fight choreography isn't even worthy of the WWE, and the premise behind it all is so weak and implausible that it's painful to watch.What I'd really like to know is why these endangered wife fights back movies feel the need to butcher the law.  In Double Jeopardy, they completely misapply the legal concept mentioned in the title.  You can not legally kill somebody just because they've been presumed dead.  And likewise, Slim seems to think that she'll be exempted from the law because of her circumstances.  Does she really think that the police are stupid to not notice her prints all over his house, knives and guns hidden poorly, but obviously removed from their normal places, and tampering with the electrical system?  Oh, I forgot, she's the heroine; she'll get off free, because judges are always swayed by public sentiment.Anyway, to make a long story short (too late), Enough was too much. Even in the climactic ending scene, I was more amused by the scumbag husband's furnishings than with the movie itself. "},{"Title":"BAD ENOUGH","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I am very dissapointed with american movies today. They are making bad movies down there and this  ENOUGH  is one of the worst I have ever seen. A completely waste of time, money and talents. Jennifer Lopez is a wife that takes on fighting lessons to face her beating husband. All's been done better in  SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY. The film is predictable and has bad dialogue. Everything happens so fast that fifteen minutes past into the film we see Jennifer on her job, finding a boyfriend, getting married and having a child that grows to be five in the rest of the story, not to mention all the absurds in it. If you have something better to do like staring at the moon or have a good snap, do it !!! You'll be saving two precious hours of your life.  "}{"Title":"Exactly","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yeah, enough of these mixes of every and any lifetime movie ever made and dumb violence added to get some of the guys to come along with the gals to the theater.  I would've not seen this movie, from the looks of the trailer, but then I saw the director's credit was Michael Apted.  He directed the 007 picture from 1999 (a good one) and also directed another movie I saw recently, Enigma, which had the workings of a very clever mystery, set in world war II Britain.  But with this, he can't do much to save it.  The script (astoundingly, written by Elia Kazan's son) is so unrelentingly lightweight that anybody with talent in the perimeter of it goes under its spell and does its tricks on their minds to do this project. Or maybe it's just the good old friend money again.As for Jennifer Lopez, she has put in a few real good performances and had a number of duds too, and this is one to add proudly to the later.  And in a sense, I almost wonder if this is her subliminal life projected on film, a chase against men that treat her wrong and all that.  Anyway, I know there will be some money made on this movie, it just won't be from me again.  D-(Lopez's behind steals the show once again, but not enough) "},{"Title":"Violence is the answer","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is disgusting on several levels. The thing that most disturbs me is that we're all surrounded by so much violence that we view violence and even murder as justifiable solutions to our problems.  I wonder if the film-makers gave any thought whatsoever to the effect this film might have on the audience.  Lesson If you are facing oppression from someone who is physically stronger than you, the only answer is to find a way to get stronger and to escalate the violence.  ...And we wonder where Eric Harris, Dylan Kliebold, Mohamed Atta, or Al-Shehri get these CRAZY ideas. "},{"Title":"How (J-)Lo can you go????!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, so I admit it the reason I wanted to see this film was NOT to watch Jennifer Lopez grow as an actor, NOT to see Michael Apted's latest directorial outing, and NOT to witness the horror of the superb Juliette Lewis actually relegated to portraying The Obligatory Loyal Friend.  No, the reason I went was because I wanted to see J-Lo kick that sorry sucker's a##.I realized going in that this was gonna be yer basic Sleeping With the Enemy retread, and I also knew that as an audience we were gonna be depressingly manipulated (to hate the husband and whoop for the wife), but I didn't care. I still wanted to see how they filmed The Big Scene.  And they did a good job, J-Lo was great, it was extremely believable and people in the theatre cheered and clapped. (I clapped too, ok? I mean I'm only human.) But enough already. I mean did we really need a film like this? - exploitative, formula-driven and appealing to everyone's most basest instincts?  Because this film exists only for that sole reason - to watch J-Lo kick butt. And more importantly  is this justification enough for a sequel?  Where she remarries - this time, a seemingly-innocent book store clerk (played by...of course...Robin Williams), who turns into a deranged, bile-spewing wife-threatening psycho by act two? Do we need this? Do we!? Do we?!  And would I go see it if they made it?  You bet your a##.   "},{"Title":"J-Lo says Enough!","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Enough (2002) is a drama/thriller starring Jennifer Lopez as Slim, a woman who is beat up by her husband, Mitch (Billy Campbell), when she catches wind of his infidelities. She then tries to flee from his egomaniacal clutches with her daughter and no help from the law. Will she prevail? Juliette Lewis has a peripheral role.This is a solid drama/thriller that explores the topic of spousal abuse. It's not great, but it's certainly entertaining for what it is. Lopez confidently carries the film while Campbell is very effective as the pompous bastage. The final act takes a movie turn, like 1998's A Simple Plan, which I generally don't like, but here it's actually satisfying, so why complain? Roger Ebert lambasted the film for numerous reasons. I think Ebert's one of the greatest movie reviewers ever, but I can't fully agree with his assessment of Enough. Roger calls it tacky simply because it shares plot similarities with the infamous I Spit On Your Grave (1978) in that a woman is brutalized and she ultimately turns the tables. Exactly WHY does he consider this tacky material? It's a great plot for a movie because so many women have been taken advantage of by arrogant men around the world throughout history and it's nice to see the abused woman go on the offensive.Ebert complains that Mitch is an unlikely caricature of hard-breathing sadistic testosterone that he cannot possibly be a real human being. Really? I've met these kinds of guys. One held a gun to my sister's head and, on another occasion, blew up her car! Roger criticizes that he has no existence beyond the stereotyped Evil Rich White Male. But the very reason stereotypes exist is because there's SOME truth to them. Ebert also complains that Mitch's change is too sudden and unexpected for both the viewer and Slim because it doesn't happen till 3-4 years into the marriage, but this presumes that a movie is obligated to share every detail of its characters with the audience. The answers are in between the lines Sometime after the honeymoon phase wore-off Mitch acquires a mistress because he arrogantly feels he deserves one and f*** what his wife thinks. Besides, he's the bread-winner, he thinks, what say does she have? Up to this point Slim was obviously blinded by love and when she discovers the awful truth she's in shock.Roger also denounces the film for sometimes being melodramatic and over-the-top. Like Fatal Attraction wasn't? Even the aforementioned A Simple Plan, which Ebert praised, has it's utterly contrived yeah, right moments.While Ebert's objection to the movie's simplistic moral color-coding (evil white guy contrasted by the good black trainer and lawyer) is somewhat legitimate, it isn't entirely. After all, apart from Mitch and his hired heavies, all the white dudes in the film are respectable citizens. Roger laments that we won't see a movie where the evil husband is black and the self-defense instructor is white in our lifetimes. While this may be technically true, what about 2001's Training Day where the ultra-corrupt cop is black (Denzel Washington) and the noble rookie is white (Ethan Hawke)? What about the righteous white instructor in 2006's Peaceful Warrior? These are just two examples off the top of my head. Lastly, Roger refers to Enough as a cartoon of a movie. While it's true that Enough contains SOME over-the-top elements it has the same general tone as A Simple Plan, not that it's as good. If you want to see a true cartoon of a movie, see 2005's King Kong, which took the classic adventure movie and morphed it into a veritable Road Runner cartoon. Ebert gave King Kong an unbelievable perfect rating. You might argue that King Kong is an adventure movie with a colossal gorilla, but it was also a drama/thriller that takes place in the real world, a world not far removed from the one presented in Enough.Disregarding profits, the main purpose of a movie is to entertain; the secondary purpose is to convey a message, overtly or covertly. While not great or deep, Enough delivers the goods on both counts. Ebert missed this in his review. The film runs 115 minutes and was shot in California and Washington (state).GRADE B "},{"Title":"Jennifer Lopez Bashing","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This One took a Whole Lot of Punishment from Critics. Jennifer Lopez Almost Always takes a Whole Lot of Punishment from Movie Fans. J-Lo Dishes out a Whole Lot of Punishment in this Film but Not Before being the Victim of a Whole Lot of Punishment from an Ultra-Rich Abusive Husband.Actually Lopez is an Underrated Actress. Despite Her Reputation as being a Bitchy Diva who Throws Tantrums when the Bottled Water in Her Dressing Room is not the Requested Name Brand. She can be Remarkably Good at Playing a Suffering Everygirl and Her Range is Acceptable. She can be at Times Better than the Highly Overrated Sandra Bullock who Looks Bitchy On Screen even when Her Character is Not.This is an OK Chick Flick Thriller that is Miles from High Art but Entertaining Nonetheless. It has some Time Compression Holes and Asks Much from the Audience in Terms of Suspension of Disbelief, but what Movie Doesn't.This can be Cathartic for Female Victims of Male Dominance and Physical Abuse. There are Clichés and Cumbersome Parts to the Story but Overall it is Worth a Watch for the Not Highly Discerning and those who can Go with the Flow. But J-Lo Bashers will no Doubt Pile On because that is what is Expected from Knee-Jerks. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Followed A Familiar Path Marry A Rich Man","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Her biggest mistake was not grabbing a chair and going after him when he first hit her. If she had hit him so hard he saw stars, he'd at least, THINK about putting his grubby hands on her again.The mistake a lot of women make is rushing into marriage with men who are handsome, and sometimes, not so handsome, with money -- money the woman DIDN'T help earn. They want to jump on a bandwagon rich husband, big house, money, money and more money! Often times, these women end up dead when they try to divorce the man and attempt to end up with his fortune (something she didn't earn, again).To women go to school, get a degree and earn your OWN damn money! And, when dating, keep things EQUAL. If he pays for dinner on Monday, you pay for it on Thursday. Women who allow men to BUY them are stupid. If he buys you a present, have one in your purse to give to him. I raised my niece that way and she's never had any problems with men thinking I PAID FOR YOU! THEREFORE, I OWN YOU! "},{"Title":"This is a Scary movie that is Happening all over the place.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Since the Last commentator said it was a bunch of hogwash, he is probably a male and thinks the way Mitch treated his wife was OK.This is happening all across the USA.Mitch Plays Slim. Sets her up with a friend and makes himself look like the good guy. This shows he has performance issues a typical Abuser.He then takes her away from her friends, since she has no family. Isolation is the next step.He then hits her once and apologizes. Then he sets up these rules that he is God and she is nothing. Beating down the victim until she feels she is nothing. She goes to his Mother. The mother ask what did you do to set him off? Typical enabler.The difference is she gets the courage to leave. He then uses his power and money to try to find her. He tries to intimidate all her friends. This makes her go out in the real world and gets smart.She changes her name, using obituary records. Changes her daughters records. Starts a new life. But she is always scared. So she decides she will prepare for him. She Trains and learns how to defeat him, at his own game. The problem is she is too human to play it. She can't complete it and he escapes, and tries to kill her. Very stupid, like running into the woods in a horror flick. He dies in the end, and it is reported as he came after her, but she has broken the cycle.This first part is so true. The life before and after leaving an abuser is like that. More women are getting out of it, but there are way to many left in these relationships. "},{"Title":"Too Far Fetched!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lopez as a battered wife who escapes her abusive husband with her daughter and goes into hiding. With huge financial resources and a bunch of mafia like goons behind him it is only a matter of time before the husband tracks Lopez down.As a last resort, Lopez goes to train with a martial artist who trains her to be able to fight back against whatever attack her husband may throw at her. When her training is complete Lopez goes with the intention of actually beating him to death but later learns that her humanity will not let her do it.I felt a lot of the movie is a little far-fetched to rate it higher, otherwise I would have given it seven stars. Lopez does toughen up in the movie (a la Linda Hamilton in Terminator II) and gives a totally different persona than she normally shows. "},{"Title":"A small dose of reality","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was hesitant about watching this movie because of the fact that Jennifer Lopez had lately been making movies that I thought were a waste of time. I am a big fan of her in Out of Sight and The Cell.  I eventually saw it because I liked the message.  It is a little like Double Jeopardy and Sleeping with the Enemy.  Is it a little predictable?  Yes.  Is it typical Hollywood, good versus evil with little character development?  Yes, to some extent.  Is it terrible?  No.  The message is great and Jennifer Lopez did a great job, despite what others say.  Consider the simply awful Wedding Planner!  Yuck!  Far too often domestic abuse is swept under the carpet and yes it happens everyday.  Enough does somewhat get lost in it's own message, leaving the characters behind, but this movie is not a character driven story.  It's about the idea that domestic violence is mainly committed by men against women and that the justice system is powerless to stop it. The idea that it's normal is passed from father to son and mother to daughter. That is the reality.  What this movie is trying to say, is that women have to start fighting back, and not necessarily in violent ways but in breaking the silence that surrounds it.  Some people have called it sexist against men.  That is completely ridiculous unless you equate all men to Billy Campbell's character.  This is not about all men, but the ones that continue to commit these crimes.  I think that it definitely got it's message across and it was fun watching the hunted become the hunter. "},{"Title":"Enough!","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  By the end of this movie I figured out what the title meant.  By the end of this movie I was crying Enough! Enough!  A more meaningful movie, with a more coherent plot and a more enjoyable presentation, could have been achieved by replacing the entire thing with a 115-minute still shot of J-Lo's butt.  At least the dialogue would have been better.Oh yeah, anybody know the name of the martial arts trainer?  If he can turn a bumbling idiot into a professional killer in 2 weeks I wanna study with him.  Even I could put up with 2 weeks of physical exertion. "}{"Title":"If you like this copycat","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I recommend instead the based on true life drama of Ike and Tina Turner What's Love Got to Do With it.  There you can see the building of the tension and remorse of Ike to his more successful wife Tina.  You see the living hell Tina lives in to try to survive and protect her children.Not this 5 minutes of quick matrimonial happiness then wham bam thank you ma'mn he starts to clock out of nowhere.  Was this ever a real marriage? No development whatsoever, no emotional attachment to the characters, convulted scenarios, improbable ending. Sure we get to see a little butt kicking but in this case as time and time before - 2 wrongs don't make a right. Sad  "},{"Title":"Please go J. Lo","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie the first time, when it was called Sleeping with the Enemy.  Given the poor performance at the box office, maybe the public is finally catching on that Jennifer Lopez is a pretty face with little else to offer.  The characters are stock, the plot predictable and, with the exception of Noah Wyle, the performance poor.  After about 20 minutes, I'd had enough of Enough. "},{"Title":"Much, much better than I would have expected","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have to admit that I was surprised by how much I liked this movie. There is a decent plot construction that gets to the point without belaboring the point. The characters are interesting, and the scenes and settings are staged well. There are multiple characters, but you always know who they are and what their relation to the story is. I'm typically cynical about certain stars, but I'm not ashamed to say I thought Jennifer Lopez, and the rest of the cast, gave very good performances. There is suspense, action, and you don't get bored. I was very entertained. No, this is not going into the list of Hollywood's greatest films. But for good solid entertainment, I give it a generous above average rating. "},{"Title":"Don't dismiss this movie...","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" just because it may seem formulaic and NO it is not a melange of Lifetime movies as one reviewer has dismissed it to be.While I am not primarily a fan of JLo, that is why this film is recommended; she does a good job as Slim and her abusive husband, Billy Campbell is also believable. Campbell plays a philandering, abusive husband, successful in business, who marries a waitress (JLo) The implications of class difference, and her acquiring the American dream by marrying him are obvious.Juliette Lewis portrays a close friend, who realizes the physical danger Slim is in, and helps her and the daughter Tess, to get away; after much travel and suspense, Slim learns she does not have the law on her side, and could lose custody of her young daughter. The physical solution is to take him on- she takes self-defense lessons, to ultimately confront Campbell.I will not disclose the ending, which while it was more of a Hollywood ending, the police detective at the end states ...you were one of the lucky ones... which is sadly true in cases of domestic violence. 9/10 "},{"Title":"OK, So it wasn't that great.....Wanna fight about it?","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lets get one thing straight the person who said it had more clichés than glitter please take your damn advil and stop with the P.M.S-ing alright!.So it wasn't the Titanic, Gone With The Wind or There Will Be Blood, but let's get one thing straight...it was not by any means THAT bad. I mean what did you expect anyway and Oscar! cheap thrills is all the audience wants and ever gets and then you all start to complain. Get it together here you watched this movie because you either wanted to laugh or guess what was gonna happen next, but you watched it, its not the directors fault YOUR the idiot. It wasn't even that bad actually it was a pretty good movie, I mean J-Lo may be no Ingrid Bergman but at least she can act in this movie and admit it the kid was cute, you just keep calling her annoying cause your a bitter old critic; stop being so harsh on her she is only 5! Not to mention it wasn't completely boring I mean their were some scary parts, like when she wakes up and she has a bad dream about her ex(though I have to admit that scream, from when she woke up from the nightmare,was the worst acting ever but overall she was OK)and he confronts her and starts choking her; I thought she was toast! I was like oh my god she is screwed! Stop being so harsh OK stop putting so much faith into a Hollywood production, I repeat Hollywood production. "},{"Title":"this was a good movie","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" as movies go (& they are meant for entertainment purposes remember) this was excellent!!! Gripping and exciting, easy to watch and jumpy...I think people are far too critical and possibly a little exaggerated in their slaying of Jennifer Lopez as the lead role - would this be because they simply don't like her because its not thats she is so crap at acting as people are making out. If anything her character is very likable and she brings a sympathetic element to the role in so far as you are really rooting for her throughout - a good movie is about pure entertainment and if people don't get it, maybe this one is not for them but it certainly isn't deserved of some of the ridiculously OTT slaying its received!!! "},{"Title":"More than enough suspense to overcome any minor flaws","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've only seen one other Jennifer Lopez movie; it was Selena, and it was back when it was in theaters. The reason I'm not a fan. But I nevertheless decided to watch Enough - twice in the past 24 hours on TNT.I watched it the first time because of a bit of trivia I read here that Lopez used Krav Maga fighting techniques in the movie, and I am a big fan of this form of martial arts.Then I watched the movie again half a day later because it was so realistic and suspenseful.I was motivated to write this review however, not because the movie is so riveting (which it is), but because over 25% of the reviewers here panned the film, and in reading the negative reviews, I felt they had several things in common - they missed the point, they were nit-picking, they were looking for some how-to manual for abused women, and/or they had no understanding of Krav Maga.Let's take the last one first I saw it repeated several times Slim could not have learned her fighting techniques in a month - she could. In fact, the History Channel has a show in which two guys learn various fighting techniques, and in the end, employ what they learned against real experts. And one of the episodes happened to be about Krav Maga which they learned in about a week and then had to defend against a half dozen soldiers in the Israeli army - all at once.The guy chosen to do the fighting held his own very well.Then there were many complaints about what Slim should have done at each point and how time and circumstances wouldn't allow her to do some things she actually did do. To those people, I'd ask you to watch again and pay closer attention because it mostly all fits. Just one example She did go to the police, she just didn't like the officer's advice. Granted there is a huge problem regarding an alarm, but if that spoiled your fun, you did it to yourself. On the other hand, I'm often furious when movies have people breaking into houses that SHOULD HAVE alarms. Here's a movie where the house has one and the intruder isn't stoppedAnother big gripe is about the acting. The problem here is that people who find themselves in such situations in real life are not typically your Olivier-Hepburn types. They are usually poor to middle class people who have a hard enough time getting through, and their limited abilities and resources are further taxed by the incredible abuse to which they find themselves subjected.So the cast does a decent job of playing average people and I realize full well that at least some may not be acting at all. But that hardly matters since this is a movie about people muddling through.Finally, there was a lot of grumbling about Lopez taking the law into her own hands, but I think these people fail to see that this isn't a film about wife abuse, it's a film about a psychopath who wants what he wants because he wants it, and he's willing to go to any length to force people to conform to his reality, and that, in itself, answers a lot of questions posed by the negative reviewers.So Slim can't follow the normal, civilized path. If she did, sooner or later she'd likely wind up dead. She simply has to force his capitulation. Are all the Ts crossed and Is dotted? No. Might a real-life version of what she did turn out differently? I'd say the chances are 50-50. However, the movie does present one credible version of a woman who does her best to prevail. She relies on men because she has to, and the real question is would real life men be as helpful to a woman in her position as those who asst her in the movie? So watch this movie for what it is, a gritty and tense bit of fiction that, once things start to happen, will grab your attention and keep you entertained. Although I was just thinking... perhaps this movie's better for people like me who aren't too familiar with Jennifer Lopez? And I would agree with those who think that the child is terrible, but that's some adult's fault, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Never enough revenge.","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Slim works in a diner and falls in love. She has all of the white picket fence dreams. The only problem is that her husband is a crazy psycho nut case and in order for her and her daughter to survive Slim has to do whatever it takes.It's a very good female revenge movie. What else was she suppose to do? She had tried so many methods of protection. The movie is very realistic and sometimes women are not as lucky as she was. The nut case had all of the power but slowly throughout the movie, she gains it back.The part that was hard to watch was the little girl in the back of the car in the chase scene. I just hated the husband in the movie, he was such as jerk. I cringed every time I had to hear what he was doing. By the end, I had had enough of him. "},{"Title":"ENOUGH - just in time.","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Gábor Vaszary describes women in his 1957-novel Alszik az Isten She becomes ruthless and without pity when she stops loving och brutally is awakened out of her dream. (mit 17 beginnt das Leben, rororo 1958180) Ennough is (for me) the followup of the cinderellamovie Maid in Manhattan, in both the leading star Jennifer Lopez, the Puerto Rican working class girl Marisa/Slim. Everything was well for Marisa but what happened behind the closed front door at home? The cindrellamovie Pretty Woman's followup was for many Sleeping with the Enemy. While Julia Roberts crying Sara gun murders her husband, turns the abused, husband hunted but strong minded Slim and meets weaponless her abuser. She is just herself. When the moment of spousal revenge lets her kill, she can't do it. I can't do it. I'm not a killer. I'm not him she mobile tells her friend Ginny, the latter saying, You have a divine animal right to protect your own life and the life of your offspring. (we are reminded of the last Kill Bill 2-sequence. Alone is Beatrix Kiddo with her daughter, followed by the text The lioness has rejoined her cub and all is right in the jungle). Here Ginny is wrong an animal kills but a human has other options. We should not forget that it was Ginny, as Stephanie in Maid in Manhattan, who pushed Slim into the Hiller-marriage. As the 'dead' Martin is not dead, he tries to shoot his wife with the (empty) gun (I won't let live you without me) Slim's Mitch wakes up. Let's imagine that Slim left the house had Mitch learned his lesson? Both had past the point of (no) return. Slim could/should have stopped much earlier. The longer she is on the run, the more furious gets her husband. This is what the movie meant, a kind of documentary. The final fight, inter cut by flashback-reminders, justifying for the audience the death fall that Self-defense is not murder. Michael Apted, director of Nell and Blink uses in Blink explaining flashbacks. The nature of documentary is highlighted by labeling the sequences of Enough hey, how they met, to have and to hold, conquering hero, our happy family, more than enough, get out, new leaf, take care. Attorney Toller tells her what mistakes she has made and the consequences; she waited too long and the law is on her husbands side. It is now she decides to fight back. The last 27 minutes show the needed strength and conviction to do what she has to do &#150; an act of courage. Now Mitch is the hunted! Her father helps her suddenly with money and advice. When ready and waiting in his home, Mitch enters a prison, as she was in his, out of which is no escape. She searches for his weapons, discarding them the fight has to be between equals. The doubting husband-man asks All right, man against woman. Is that really fair?, she answering Fair for whom? Pretty Woman/Sleeping with the Enemy 1990/1991 and Maid in Manhatten/Enough 2005 &#150; was Enough possible 1991? Their confrontation is same-level-fairness while Susan/Laura gun murders her husband, lying to the police seconds before the murder I've just killed an intruder, meaning the intruder of her personality. Slim, reuniting with her daughter at the airport when everything is over, is, as it seems, as Beatrix Kiddo alone with her daughter. But this is not hollywoodtrue as a happy end is needed. Her boyfriend has proved that a shared future is perhaps possible. But can todays man be as husband-father only a dick for the to-be-mother; i this the Enough-message? In the book, not the film The Guy in the Grave Next Door offers Desirée Benny to pregnant her as father unknown. Mitch prelude tells as the coming spousal abuse two things I make the money, so I make the rules. and I am, and always will be, a person who gets what he wants. Slim is not Mitchs and his police friend Robbies first victim, helped by the FBI-men &#150; but the last! Why did Mitch marry her? Robbie asks and tries to stop his revenge blinded friend Mitch. Most of the critics where not very good. Some asked why Mitch was for five years the perfect husband. Was he? And that Slim did not notice something. Did she not? The scale of abuse starts with a word, gesture or a look &#150; hardly sensed/noticed abuse. Actually it had! gone too long, ready for a second Farrah Fawcett/Francine Hughes, the Michigan woman who killed her drunken abusive husband by setting his bed on fire in The Burning Bed. Domestic violence is not only the victims but society's problem, found in all classes of society. "},{"Title":"if you have ever had a maniac in your life see this movie","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I did not see the harm in having JLO be a woman in distress. The Man that plays her dad who won't claim her is cast great. You come to appreciate how much safety can cost and how you will have to live if you take a stand for yourself. The little girl is smart and sweet. I think the movie put a much needed slant on a real slice of life for women in this situation. Thats right no support system. JLO creates her life all over again something a lot of people dream of being able to do.By the way the actions of the men in this movie are another slice of life. Jlo is in a mans world fighting for her life,,,,.This movie may not be for everyone as it is told from a woman's point of view. I think many men will have a hard time getting through this movie.Again this movie shows the importance of a support system. "}{"Title":"This is an awesome movie.","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I think that this movie is so awesome. It shows some of the reality of abused women and what lenghts some men will go to to keep there women. JLo. does an excellent job of portraying her character. There are some flaws though like the little girl who plays her daughter is cute to look at but her character is very annoying. There are some very suspenseful moments in the movie but it really is excellent and I love it. I was shocked at the ending but I will not tell you what happened you have to see the movie first and then you will see the shocking ending. It is not what happens it is how she portrays it in the movie that is so awesome. "},{"Title":"Revenge","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Me and my Girlfriend has a little boy of our own.. 2,5 yrs old.. I think you like this movie better if you have kids.. Jennifer Lopez (the mom) is dating the wrong man.. He starts cheating on her... and slaping her... She needs to get out of his life.. to save her and her daughter. He is chasing them and finds them all the time... He is hiring people to find her... but..We gave this Movie 8/10 My girlfriend gaveit 8 If you ask me.. 6 or 7 "},{"Title":"I have had Enough of J-lo's acting","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It sucked!!!!!!  It was one the worst movies i have ever seen right up there with Pod People, Pearl Harbor, and Manos Hands of Fate.  This movie is less accurate of real life than X-men.  The villain is portrayed as a horrible person who attempts to keep his family together.  It's a depressing world when we punish people who want to keep their family from going through a messy divorce, custody battles, and visitation rights.  J-lo's reactions are even worse than the plot.  At least in three separate chase scenes, she looks over her shoulder and looks back ahead with a look of amusement on her face.  Perhaps she finds it funny beating up white men who support their family.  J-lo has sure come a long way from being a fly-girl on In Living Color, though.  She's gone from shaking her butt entertaining well-humored individuals, to shaking her butt entertaining weak-minded individuals.  In an interview J-lo stated that she hoped to empower women.  I just hope she doesn't empower women to beat up men who care about their wife and kids like what she does in this movie. "},{"Title":"Enough Already! Just Stop the Pain!","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wow. Wowwowwow. And here I thought I'd seen it all. Enough is truly an incomparable movie. And I do mean that in the worst way possible. There is nothing as bad as this movie. Not even a root canal with no Novocaine is as bad as this. In fact, the root canal is even less painful, and more entertaining.There are certain things a movie needs, not necessarily to succeed, but simply to be classified as a movie.1. Moving Pictures. Well, Enough does have those to it's credit.2. Acting. Enough has that but it is, unfortunately, of the worst kind.3. Coherent Plot. You won't find that here.4. If it is a real-life issue film, it must portray the issue accurately. Enough ignores this rule completely.Let's dig deeper, starting with the plot. Slim and Mitch are a happily married couple. Well...they're married at least. Happy? That's debatable. Mitch is, for lack of a better word, a slut and Slim doesn't like it. Mitch beats her for her disapproval. So Slim does what any woman would (or at least the movie would have you believe so) and runs away with their daughter. Then, Slim plots how to kill Mitch.KILL him? What the hell ever happened to MARRIAGE COUNSELING? HELLO?! No matter what Slim says, what she plots is murder. It's downright overkill. I'm definitely not saying what Mitch did was OK, but killing him is not the answer. She tries the police once, then gives up before even filing her complaint. Look, no matter what this movie says, the cops will indeed listen to you if you have trouble. It's their job you dunderhead. How stupid is this woman? She convinces herself that her husband has some half-baked cockamamie plot to make the police think she's a drug-addict, and we're supposed to believe that she's the sane one? She's freaking crazy!And who can blame her, with that kid of hers. This little girl would drive the most peaceful person in the world to do bad things. I personally wanted to shove a sock down her throat to stop her from spewing the insane things she says. Tainted? Is that like painted? I'm sick and tired of moving to death Can we call daddy? PLEASEPLEASE!Stop it stop it stop it! You win you little freak, you win! Just stop talking!Thank God this kid has never done any other films. Let us pray she never will in the future.Let's talk about the acting. It's bad. It's MST3K/ManosThe Hands of Fate bad. It's so bad I thought I was watching a Lifetime movie. Now that's bad.Let's just get one thing straight Jennifer Lopez is a fine actress. Look at her body of work Selena, Angel Eyes, Out Of Sight, The Cell, even Anaconda, they're all great movies and Lopez is great in all of them. Sure she's had some bad ones, but the good outweighs the bad greatly. A movie like Enough is beneath her. She has nothing to work with in this movie. The plot is ill-conceived, and the script is pathetically bad and feels like a freshmen's writing exercise. J. Lo needs a challenging film in order to shine. Enough is just too easy for her, and it makes her look bad.Bill Campbell, who you may remember from The Rocketeer (a wholly better movie than Enough) is forced to make a complete ass of himself as Mitch. If you have ever met anyone even slightly resembling this over-the-top caricature of a man, please tell me, because I'm fairly sure they don't exist. I might be wrong, but I severely doubt it. Mitch is like a mixture of pure steroid rage and Hank Azaria. Don't ask me why, but every time I see him I think he looks like Hank Azaria. And he's just as goofy as Azaria. He runs around spewing about crap that means nothing whatsoever to the plot, and he tries to Hulk-Up like he's Hulk Hogan or the Ultimate Warrior or something. He's just pathetic.Juliette Lewis...she was better at playing a retarded woman in The Other Sister than she was at playing Slim's friend in Enough. There is nothing comforting in knowing that Juliette Lewis is coming to the rescue when your husband is trying to kill you. She's not too impressive.There are other supporting actors but they don't get a fair chance to do anything other than breathe on screen. I'd rather have watched more of Fred Ward as Jupiter than the little monster child, but that simply wasn't to be. Dammit.Enough is a film more interested in taking your money than enlightening you to the plight of battered women. It's a film built on a foundation of lies, half-truths, and sheer insanity. Enough would have you believe that cold-blooded murder was the answer to all your problems, and that it would be justified. You all know better than that, and so do the people who wrote this tripe. It's not even worth it to see this movie for free on television. It's a train-wreck of a film that insults the audience's intelligence, and promotes an agenda of violence and fear. If they wanted you to fear this movie, then they succeeded. It's scary bad. "},{"Title":"This movie...","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie told everyone that women who have the wrong guys or just wanna kick some butt can beat any guy she wants to protect herself and her family. Most guys and some women dont believe that but this movie said, if you are abused and the cops dont believe you, get back at the guy thats hurting you and your child. I usually dont like movies with Jennifer Lopez but this movie was a big exception, It was so great and the little girl that played her daughter did very, very well.  "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In Enough, Jennifer Lopez stars as Slim, a waitress who meets a rich contractor named Mitch. In no time, they're married, living a beautiful home and have a daughter. They have a perfect life. Until about four years later when Slim discovers Mitch is having an affair. He tells her that men and women have different needs and his mistress takes care of his, but he still wants to be with Slim. When she protests and says she will not tolerate his infidelity, Mitch begins beating her up.She realizes she needs to leave to save herself and her daughter. But it's not that easy. Mitch relentlessly chases them and Slim soon takes matters into her own hands.This is such a suspenseful, exciting and thrilling movie. I've most of Jennifer's films, and I must say she is at her best in Enough. She truly gave an amazing performance that will make people notice she is a good actress.  "},{"Title":"cool!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think the movie was really cool. there was action and it tells me to try and stand up for myself, and its even better seeing my inspiration Jennifer Lopez standing up and kick'in butt.im going to remember that movie and I'm hoping to buy it. "},{"Title":"Tearjerker, eye-opener. Touching story.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tearjerker,  eye-opener.  Touching story.   No one should have to live like that.  Made me want to take action. "},{"Title":"Girlpower! Real girl-movie","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, maybe Enough isn't the most original movie ever made.  Maybe it's not the best movie I've ever seen... But Enough is definitely a girl power movie!! The adrenaline floats through your body when Slim (J.Lo) decides to fight back.  Enough is sad and fun, a movie about love and friendship, to see with you friends. Boys probably won't like it, even though it is with J.Lo, it's a true girl-movie.  "},{"Title":"You go girl","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jennifer gave a excellent performance and I'm so proud of my fellow Latina! You go girl! She most definitely deserves recognition for this movie. This movie surprised me on which I wasn't sure if it was going to be like other movies about battered women! She showed so much strength and determination to be once again happy and to be treated with respect!I truly recommened this movie!!!! "}{"Title":"good writing, good intensity and a real sense of peril","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this movie deals with the same theme as sleeping With the Enemywhich came out over a decade earlier.the theme is spousal abuse.as in Enemy a woman (Jennifer Lopez)meets the man of her dreams,(Bill Campbell)only to find out he's actually the man of her nightmares.so she runs away,only to be tracked relentlessly at every turn by psycho husband who has no qualms about killing her.faced with no other options,she learns to protect herself and decides to confront him.this element added a bit of originality to the film.daughter,fathered by her psycho husband Mitch(Campbell)and has to protect her as well.i liked this movie more thanSleeping With the Enemy mainly because of the added element of a child to protect and that the abused wife decides to physically confront her abuser.their's obviously more action,but i also think the writing is very good.you can feel the intensity and the peril that Slim is in.the only knock i have against this movie is that at times it strays into unreality territory.other than that,i liked it.my vote for Enough is 8/10 "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Going by some reviews I'd read in the newspapers and entertainment publications, I was a little skeptical about seeing Enough. What made me decide to see it was what I saw in the trailers, particularly with Billy Campbell. Previously seen in the fine TV show Once And Again as nice guy Rick Sammler, I wondered if he could play the villain.  Campbell delivers the role with intensity.  His character Mitch, is creepy and frightening as the possessive/control freak husband who starts physically abusing his wife Slim (Jennifer Lopez), after she finds out he's cheating on her.There are no surprises in this story, but I didn't go to this film expecting to have the plot of an Insomnia or Lantana.  All the actors turn in good performances including Noah Wylie who is also very good as a bad guy, Juliette Lewis, Dan Futterman, and young Tessa Allen.  Credit here goes to director Michael Apted. In someone else's hands this film could have turned out to be a very average, generic, spousal abuse movie of the week. Enough is much more than that. "},{"Title":"What a Great Movie!!!","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Many thought this movie was a tear jerker. I too found myself reaching for the tissues, but for a different reason. When J-Lo is walking around her house after waking up, wearing that tight top and jam-mies, I nearly came to my senses and changed the channel. I'm not a big fan of the short haircut. I like short hair, just not on top of the head. The car chase scene was not very believable. Come now. It was so fake. But then again, I'm used to having women fake on me. I guess that's why I watch so many pleasurable movies. At first, I gave this movie a 6, then another 6, and one more time until the tissue box ran out. Then I fell asleep. "},{"Title":"Enough is a bit too much...","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While this isn't a terrible movie, by any means, and J.Lo. does a decent enough job acting, I'm more than a little disappointed by the pacing. We see so little of the characters before the marriage, we see so little of them being 'happy'. We're barely given time to care about the characters before everything's thrown into hell.We then spend QUITE a while dealing with her running. And running and running and running and running and running. She's shown to be a resourceful and intelligent character through out the movie. Having been in the place of Gracie as a child, I empathized a great deal with her character.All of the actors delivered decent performances. While this is NOT a 'great' film, I'm not sorry that I saw it. I actually cared about what happened to Slim and her daughter. All in all, my biggest gripe is with the pacing. Some things went by too fast, others went by agonizingly slow. "},{"Title":"Ignore ALL bad reviews!! This film is underrated & GREAT!","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't possibly see how people could give this movie a bad review! Enough is one of Jennifer Lopez's BEST performances. It may not be a big-budget production straight out of Hollywood, but I will say that there needs to be more movies like this. Enough is a thriller that actually keeps you locked into the plot. Also; So many movies now-a-days have great openings but horrible endings... I can honestly say that Enough has a great start (opening), and a SUPERB ending!!! The ending will leave you jumping up cheering for an encore!! Please ignore all the bad reviews and see it for yourself. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Dramatic Movie","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of the top dramas out. It has box office potential with Jennifer Lopez. The storyline of an abusive husband suits the fast paced movie. The FBI offsets the other scenes in the movie and provides background for those watching who have not watched Jennifer Lopez who has also starred in romantic comedies and action movies. Jennifer Lopez breaking into the movies from her albums is a guarantee that audiences and critics will acclaim her movie from the viewpoint of up and coming star. She draws the audience in with her acting ability and her co-stars add to the potentially critically acclaimed movie. She pays attention to the scenes and she provides the movie star status that is needed. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ++spoilers++ As in unbelievably BAD!! It didn't make any sense, Slim seemed to be a split personality .. intelligent enough to plan elaborate escape routes, but stupid enough to be fooled by this man and then make bad decisions. Whilst there were many instances of 'unbelievable scenes' - a few stand out 1) At the lawyers office were he basically tells her its no use - he'll keep going till he kills you .. Are you kidding me? 2) The bad guy FBI agents at Jo's apartment - the couch stole the scene from everybody else. 3) the end where we assume that the daughter, mother-in-law, new girlfriend and cop friend (Noah Wylie) are all okay with the circumstances of the husbands death - HELLO!!! does this director not watch CSI (I'm being facetious)?I could go on but basically the scenario doesn't make any sense and the acting is awful (as I said I am voting for the couch having more emotional expression than any any of the actors, and the kid would probably get my vote for most annoying voice ever).Don't let this suck away any brain cells - its a dud! "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Yesterday I watched this movie on TV. I was tired and I just wanted to relax. Even if I knew it had a bad reputation, I thought it could be fun. Unfortunately it was not. The script is awful and an insult to all battered women.In a nutshell, J.Lo plays Slim, a waitress who marries Mr. Right (and Rich) only to discover after several years of marriage that he is violent and a cheater. Some other character in the movie at a certain point states that Slim is just a dumb waitress, and he might have had a point, considering how long it took her to discover her hubby true nature&#x85; Anyway, Slim and abusive hubby have a daughter &#x96; described by other reviewers as one of the most insufferable child in the history of movies. Again, they are right. For reasons difficult to understand and even more to explain, both Slim and hubby want custody of the horrible child. Therefore, Slim has no other choice but to run away in the middle of the night, to avoid losing her precious offspring.From here, this bad plot takes a turn for the worse. Why Slim decides to run away in the middle of night, rather than by day when hubby is at work or with one of his mistresses? Again, one would say because she is dumb&#x85;.After her getaway, she is surprised to find that hubby cut her bank account. Being used to a rich, pampered life, she decides to turn to her rich, estranged father, for further supply of cash.Some implausible hide and seek follows, then Slim understand that the only way to get rid of the abusive &#x96; but rich &#x96; husband is to kill him. So she goes ahead with what is nothing but a premeditated murder plan.The messages received from this movie are all negative and absurd first, that women are kept property and always ready to sponge on someone for keeping; second, that it is OK to plan a murder if you have some good reasons (according to your point of view &#x96; of course); third, that it takes only one month of training to turn into a mix of Superwoman and a ninja killer.. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw the previews of this movie so I could be ready or sort of ready for the scenes where it showed Jennifer Lopez's character being abused. I have to admit this is a Hard movie to watch as I've lived the life as an abused woman. This movie despite of the violence at is shown at times is hard to watch I think it gives the regular abused woman ideas how to escape. Slim had someone her estrange father who had the money and means to help her and in the end get the ultimate revenge. I have to say this is one of the better shows about spousal abuse that I've ever seen and I bought it because it is such a good movie. I have to give great high praise for Noah Wyle and Billy Campbell's characters.I've watched Noah and Billy in other movies and on TV but I think this far their best work. I fell in love with Tessa Allen who played Gracie.For a such young girl she did a Great job.Hope to see her more in the future. "},{"Title":"I am now DUMBER for having watched this peevish garbage","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This, by far, is one of the most insanely idiotic films I have seen. I heard how stupid it is and wanted to see it for myself and even knowing what to expect I was disappointed. Jennifer Lopez gives a pathetic performance as a thick-thigh waitress named Slim who falls in love with a successful contractor named Mitch. Mitch and Slim fall in love off camera, then we see their wedding, then they buy a house, have a kid, and later Slim discovers that Mitch (oh no!!) has been cheating (long pause). From this point on the movie becomes an implausible idiotic circus that can only appeal to a hyper twelve year old who constantly has his lunch money stolen by bullies. And the film is also divided into chapters, such as how they met and you can run. I don't know what that is all about but it look awful dumb. The characters in this movie have absolutely no chemistry with each other and the acting is horrible. Even the mighty Juliette Lewis shows no effort. Lewis plays Slim's best friend and fellow waitress Ginny and they interact like they know each other from the gym! Also I can't help but notice that Slim is a complete moron because it takes her about eight years to discover where Mitch goes after work, in fact the evidence and clues rubbed themselves in her face until she finally caught on. Unfortunately that's the only character development that we see in the entire film. This movie film has many scenes that simply do not make logical sense, but that's OK because it has a very specific target audience eggplants. If this movie is a spoof of other spousal abuse movies, then it's a masterpiece. "}{"Title":"You have a divine animal right to protect your own life and the life of your offspring.","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jennifer Lopez is not a great actress. She wasn't even good enough to win a Razzie for worst actress for this film. That went to Britney Spears (Crossroads) and Madonna (Swept Away). But, of course, we do not watch Lopez for her acting ability. This was her fifth Razzie nomination; she won for Gigli. Now, don't get me wrong. I have seen just about all of her films. As badly as she acts, she is still Selena, and I will always love her for that.So, if you like to see a woman fight back against her abuser, and you want to see Noah Wyle outside his soap roles playing a bad guy, then this is the film for you. Juliette Lewis (From Dusk to Dawn) and Tessa Allen (General Hospital) as the daughter add to the movie. "},{"Title":"Almost Too Much","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  First part of the movie is pretty good, but it starts getting a little unbelievable.  The one saving grace(pun)is the little girl who plays the daughter.   She is quite a little actress for a kid her age.  On the verge of precocious without being obnoxious.  i wouldn't pay to rent it, but I saw it on TV so the cost was tolerable. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"OK movie","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie isn't really good when you first see it...it kept me interested to see what would happen. I really don't think much of Jennifer Lopez as an actress i just felt like she could have done a better job! Juliette Lewis had a small role as a good friend of Lopez. Billy Campbell who plays Lopez's husband played a really really strange character....I thought the ending was really cheesy with Lopez beating up on her husband. Although this story was really different and i don't recall of a movie much like this one it's not that great of a movie! I give this movie 2 stars **!!!! "},{"Title":"Enough is enough","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Domestic abuse is a subject which needs to be treated ;and the first part of the movie (roughly until the heroine leaves home) rings true and Jennifer Lopez is convincing.Juliette Lewis who was so good in Kalifornia Strange Days or From Dusk till dawn is one more time wasted in a part unworthy of herself.The scene when JL leaves home at night is particularly suspenseful;but things begin to deteriorate beyond that point the FBI investigation is hardly plausible, ;Jupiter (Fred Ward) is really the pain in the neck (how can we believe he is JL's father?);and what about the fate of JL's best (male) friend?.Turning the unfortunate wife into some kind of female Rambo (thanks to an instructor)is definitely a bad idea gone wrong .One should note that many MTV works from the eighties and the nineties dealt with the horrors of domestic abuse and they were often better than this one which sounds like a remake of  sleeping with the enemy which was not a great movie either. "}]