[{"Title":"Think Shaft meets Get Smart here. -)","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"55 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" There's seems to be a lot of misplaced animosity among, what I presume, are white commentators, regarding this film's racial thrust.The film isn't about belittling or ridiculing white people.The film is about tackling prejudices And specifically those among the U.S.'s so-called white and black populations, but told from, ostensibly, a black perspective, and told with humor.Reading the negative comments on this film I wonder what movie some of the angry folks were watching. Racism is using one's own physical traits to establish social superiority over another person, or group of people, who don't look like themselves. I saw nothing of any of the African/Black/persons-of-color trying to reverse role play by holding themselves in a superior light over so-called white people.It simply wasn't there.Myself, I hate white guilt messages in media of all forms. I've had enough social agenda thrust in my face. But that's NOT THE MESSAGE of Undercover Brother.What a lot of the angry-white-commentators are bothered by is the fact that they believe this film makes ALL so-called white persons look like evil-clowns, or condescending jerks. IT DOESN'T. If that's what you see in this film, then maybe you shouldn't be watching movies in the first place.This film, as stated clear as day by both cast and crew, is an attempt to tackle a social problem with good humor. If you're offended by the jokes in this film, then you've completely missed the point, and are, in fact, the racist idiot that you claim this film to be (I believe psychologist call this phenomenon projection, where someone refuses to acknowledge their own faults, and casts their own negative qualities on people they dislike).But to the movie; it was hilarious. Myself, not being black, I couldn't help but laugh of the number of stereotypes this film poked fun at; especially Conspiracy Brother (played by Dave Chappell), whose loose form of illogic-thinking and one-liners had me, quite literally, falling out of my chair with laughter. And Neil Patrick Harris (Doogie Howser M.D. fame) playing the affirmative action intern nearly bust my gut, particularly near the end of the film. And Chris Kattan as the evil high energy second in command was just brilliant. The entire cast and film was superb. Think Shaft meets Get Smart here. -)What this film needed was to poke more fun at itself in a more direct manner. In a large sense this film pokes fun at itself in terms of its genre, but I think it also needed to show a couple more stereotypes. One of the great high-profile stereotypes in white America are black people talking in theaters, or otherwise being loud and obnoxious in places and circumstances white Americans thinks inappropriate. It would've been nice to see Undercover Brother cleaning up his peoples stereotypes, but doing so with humor before going after the man. I think that's a thing the film makers missed, because the other thing I believe angry white commentators are bothered by is the fact that there are black folks who have their own prejudices, and that this film might seen by that segment of black-America as a green light for ridiculing whites. IT ISN'T.One of the other themes the film makers missed is the coupling that that occurs between Denise Richard's character and Eddie Griffin's character. One of the primary drives of racism is the abhorrence of interracial couples. This plot point, even though it's high comedy, seemed implausible for a racially motivated antagonist. Then again, that may've been part of the film makers' strategy to show how ludicrous racial prejudice is, and can be.The final mistake, and this is more of a minor quibble, but a profound one from a fan of this film, was the downplay of Jim Kelley's role in this film.Where I grew up Jim Kelley was a hero, and this was amongst a circle of friends who were all white. I think the marketing decision to ace Jim Kelley's role in this film was a mistake. Not a huge one, but a mistake nonetheless.If you're still of the opinion that this film is racist (assuming you've read this far and haven't burst a blood vessel), then I would suggest you're taking the film too personally, because the film isn't ridiculing so-called white-people, but prejudice that, in this case, is assumed by a large chunk of white America. If you think otherwise, then you're not viewing this film with a clear mind.Beyond that, it's one of the funniest films I've ever seen. View it with a relaxed and open mind, and enjoy some of the biggest laughs to ever hit the big screen. "},{"Title":"Underrated Comedy","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"40 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" An Afro-American organization, the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D., is in permanent fight against a white organization, The Man, defending the values of the black people in North America. When the Afro-American candidate Gen. Warren Boutwell (Billy Dee Williams) has a weird behavior in his presidential campaign, the Undercover Brother (Eddie Griffin) is hired to work undercover in the white organization and find what happened with the potential candidate.I do not recall the last time I laughed so much with a comedy. Undercover Brother is one of the most hilarious and silly comedies I have ever seen, and very underrated in IMDb. The story is a big joke with the North American racism, both white and black, with very funny situations à la Austin Powers. I believe this is the major point of the plot, keeping a neutral position and ridiculing and satirizing racism of Caucasians and Blacks. Dave Chappelle is the funniest, but Chris Kattan, Eddie Griffin, Aunjanue Ellis, Denise Richards and the rest of the cast are also amazingly funny. I did not understand the joke with mayonnaise, but I believe that usually Afro-American people do not like this dressing, or at least there is a clichés about in USA. There are many other jokes related to the North American culture that are impossible to be understood by an overseas viewer, but anyway I loved this movie. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Undercover Brother &#150; Com a Cor e a Coragem (Undercover Brother &#150; With the Color and Courage) "},{"Title":"It Tears the Roof Off the Mother Sucker!","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I loved Undercover Brother!  It's the movie Pootie Tang should have been!  I found it over-the-top, laugh-out-loud funny!  Eddie Griffin scores as Undercover Brother, an afrolicious version of Austin Powers.  And Chris Kattan is hilarious as Mr. Feather, an evil underling of The Man, devoted to the white man's dominance, but succumbing to hip-hop influence.  Other funny performances came from Dave Chappelle as the paranoid Conspiracy Brother, and Neil Patrick Harris as the clueless caucasian intern Lance.  Some viewers may complain about the black stereotypes, but you must look at it as black actors and filmmakers laughing at themselves.  It's all a solid laugh! "},{"Title":"Austin Powers watch out for Undercover Brother","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover Brother is a smart and sassy comedy similar to Austin Powers. Eddie Griffin stars as Undercover Brother a smooth seceret agent type cat who is out to save the world from the Man. He gets help from the brother hood who have employess with names like Conspiracy Brother & Smart Brother and Sistah Girl. The supporting cast of Chi McBride, Chris Kattan and Denise Richards are all very good but Dave Chapple steals every scene he's in. Malcom D.Lee has made a worthy follow up to The Best Man and Unisversal may have a new franchise on their hands. "},{"Title":"Hilarious but not for the easily offended","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If you find 'Family Guy', 'Married ... with Children' or even 'The Simpsons' to be in bad taste, you may want to avoid this movie. If you found 'Good Times' and 'What's Happening!' to be stereotypical and buffoonish, you probably won't like this movie.If you are still reading ...According to this movie, African Americans have made numerous advances as a result of the Civil Rights movement. But a powerful Caucasian male known as 'The Man', whose face we never see, wants to put black people back in their place.Which is why the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. must stop him.If there was such a person as 'The Man', he could have written this movie.Eddie Griffin did quite a good job in what were essentially two roles. Most of the time, he had the giant afro and the cool clothes and the classic Cadillac pumping out funky 70s music as he represented everything good (or bad, depending on your view) about the 'blaxploitiation' genre. And he worked undercover as Anton Jackson wearing a suit and acting more white than I do. A very good contrast, showing a lot of acting skill.Billy Dee Williams nailed the potential presidential candidate obviously based on Colin Powell, who was acting very strange for some reason. Not quite stereotypical, because he was always dignified--but shouldn't have been. His advertising campaign was hilarious!Denise Richards and Aunjanue Ellis also gave good performances as the two female partners of Undercover Brother--one when he was black, and one when he was undercover.Chi McBride and Gary Anthony Williams were very funny as two of Undercover Brother's associates. And Dave Chappelle was very stereotypical, very racist, but very funny--it was just satire, after all. Neil Patrick Harris did quite a good job as the organization's token white. And let's not forget the one associate of 'The Man' who seemed to want to be black and even acted black at times. That must have been Chris Kattan.With all these talented actors, there were of course very clever writers to make the material so hilarious. It takes real talent to produce satire as opposed to just being mean-spirited.The music was good too, for this type of movie. I personally would like to have heard Jay-Z do Lawrence Welk. Or maybe not. Today's artists don't often sound as good as, say, Rod Stewart. I'm not hopeless, though. I can't stand Michael Bolton or Celine Dion or, even though he wasn't mentioned but could have been, Kenny G. For some reason I do like 'Jungle Boogie' by Kool and the Gang.I highly recommend this movie for fans of satire. "},{"Title":"Mess with the Fro...you got to go!","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I first saw Undercover Brother on cable a few years ago and since then it's become one of my favorite comedies of recent years. Though it's basically a blaxploited version of the Austin Powers concept, Undercover Brother is funny enough to be enjoyable on its own merits.As the film opens, we are filled in on the ongoing battle between the black community and a super secret organization known as The Man, who works tirelessly to negate African-American influence on the world at large. Fortunately, the black community has its own underground group, known as The B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. created to undermine The Man's plans to Whitewash the world.Eddie Griffin stars as Undercover Brother, a funky '70s throwback hero with a huge Afro and platform shoes, who drives around in a pimped-out Caddy performing acts of Kung-Fu derring-do to aid the African American cause. Normally a lone wolf, he is drafted into the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. when a black war hero (Billy Dee Williams)'s plans to run for President are derailed by a mind control drug designed by The Man. Now rather than run for the White House, he runs a nationwide Fried Chicken chain instead. Ably assisted by fellow B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. agents Sistah Girl, Conspiracy Brother, Smart Brother, and Lance (Neil Patrick Harris in a hilarious turn as the lone white member of the group -- he got his internship through -- what else? -- affirmative action), Undercover Brother infiltrates The Man's organization to destroy the plot, though he nearly becomes a victim of their most potent weapon, the gorgeous Denise Richards, aka White She-Devil (whom The Man calls Black Man's Kryptonite.) along the way.I have seen a lot of discussion on IMDb about this film being racist towards whites, but to be honest, I found Undercover Brother to be an equal opportunity offender, with no stereotype about blacks OR whites going un-skewered. The cast is excellent, especially Dave Chapelle as the eternally paranoid agent Conspiracy Brother, and the always welcome Chi McBride as the long-suffering Chief of The B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. Denise Richards looks amazing in a white leather catsuit (her catfight scene with Sistah Girl is worth the price of the DVD all by itself), and oddly enough, even though I usually find Eddie Griffin and Chris Kattan (who plays The Man's flunky, Mr. Feather) quite irritating in other films, their shtick totally works in Undercover Brother. Fast, funny, and an utterly silly good time, Undercover Brother is -- in the words of its hero -- Solid. "},{"Title":"Undercover Brilliance!","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" These days, we're all used to the weekly deluge of movies adapted from novels, comics and other mediums, but 'Undercover Brother' &#x96; released in 2003 - was one of the first movies to be adapted from an internet source. The film is based on a series of internet-based short animated episodes, also called 'Undercover Brother'. The adaptation is successful (with some scenes lifted directly from the animated shorts), focusing on racial stereotypes while paying homage to spy movies and seventies blaxploitation films.Eddie Griffin is brilliant as the confident, swaggering, yet good-hearted title character, who is called into the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D organisation to stop The Man after he kidnapped presidential hopeful General Warren Boutwell (Billy Dee Williams) and brainwashed him to sell fried chicken, with an aim to wipe out the black community.One of the strengths of this movie is the cast. Aside from the aforementioned Griffin and Williams, there's Dave Chappelle as Conspiracy Brother, in a role not dissimilar to his stand-up routine (in this case a good thing), Gary Anthony Williams (who provided many of the voices in the original internet series) as Smart Brother, Aujanue Ellis as the headstrong Sistah Girl, the backbone of the group, Neil Patrick Harris (before his breakout roles in the 'Harold and Kumar' movies and 'How I Met Your Mother') as the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D's white intern Lance, Chris Kattan as Mr. Feather, the underling to The Man who is secretly enchanted by black culture, Denise Richards as White She-Devil, described as 'the black man's kryptonite', and a cameo from James Brown, the Godfather of Soul.While there is a lot of silly humour in this film (like the 'Austin Powers' trilogy) and broad racial stereotypes &#x96; black people like fried chicken and hate mayonnaise &#x96; the black director Malcolm D. Lee, and the predominantly black cast ensures the black characters are never mocked for a cheap laugh.The soundtrack is a highlight, with a lot of songs from the blaxploitation era, some Michael Jackson and more modern urban music. Even if you're not a fan of this genre of music, it's still fairly catchy.Though it's very much a comedy (at times very silly but never stupid), the film has a lot to say about how ridiculous racial stereotypes are. The role of Boutwell as the possible first black president is relevant to modern viewers (even though the film's only six years old) with the presidency of Barack Obama only a few months old.Overall, 'Undercover Brother' is a hilarious, silly film, which pays homage to the spy and blaxploitation genre and explores racial stereotypes without ridiculing them for cheap laughs. "},{"Title":"A hit or miss comedy","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Many films in the history of the cinema  have been difficult to identify, and this  one embodies some of the typical  exasperations of critiquing film. Definitely  a hit or miss film, you either have to  know about the blaxploitation movement  of have a very low sense of humor. Since  I have both attributes, I give this movie  a 6/10. Some of the moments were  genuinely funny and entertaining, but  overall, I probably wouldn't pay to see  this film (I work at a theater, and get to  see this stuff for free). Eddie Griffin was  surrounded by a rather solid supporting  cast which seemed to parody all of the  common elements of a typical blaxploitation  film. But then again, is this film really  anti-white propaganda or some silly  parody? It's hard to tell, which means  the decision is certainly up to the viewer. "},{"Title":"Deliberately stupid and very funny movie","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In the 80s there was a film called i'm gonna get you sucka about a black gang led by keenan ivory wayans who bring down a white company run by Mr. Big played by john vernon. It was hilarious and undercover brother is the same type of movie and equally funny. Whitey has mind-controlled a black general modeled on colin powell, and turned him away from running for president. Instead they have him shill for a fried chicken restaurant that has mind control drugs in their chicken.!! Whitey wants to turn blacks into slaves and the BROTHERHOOD led by our hero UB, is out to stop them. Among the choice bits of silliness is when smart brother develops a vaccine against the drugs but says they can't use it cause it only works on one person at a time!!! Now how can a vaccine only work on one person at a time? HAHAHA. I give this movie a B+. "},{"Title":"energetic cast and gags make it fun","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Uneven but entertaining comedy which puts an effective comic spin on popular blaxploitation films. Griffin&#x97;a stylish, super cool secret agent who always gets his man&#x97;is recruited by an ambitious black brotherhood to investigate the ambiguous actions of a prominent black general who's given up his love of politics for fried chicken. In addition, Griffin also matches wits with an evil, megalomaniacal white man. An undeniably goofy setup is made worthwhile by a lot of hip, amusing dialogue and clever, innovative sight gags. Suffers from occasional lapses&#x97;as most films of this genre do&#x97;but the cast is clearly having fun and make it worth the viewing experience. **½ "}{"Title":"Good comedies don't come along very often...","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" ...Most of the time, the type of comedies we get are teen comedies that pretty much only focus on sexual topics. Not my cup of tea. It's just not funny.But here, we have a brilliantly funny comedy about a black man mentally stuck in the 70s who's out their protecting racial equality. We also have The Brotherhood, a secret organization doing the same thing, consisting of mostly blacks. But they stress the message that you just have to be down to be in the brotherhood, and you don't have to be black. At first, it seems like only blacks are welcome. But then they realize that working as an equal team is how the job should really be done, regardless of one's race. So this movie has a good message, despite all the racial jokes.But enough of that. This movie is hilarious! The jokes they make about both black culture and white culture kept me laughing all the way through. You can't take it too seriously. If you do, getting offended will come with the territory for you, and that's not what this movie is about. What goes through my head when the jokes are cracked is, That's exactly how it is! And I'm a white guy.Sure, a lot of the jokes are ones that have been used before. But the WAY they're used in this movie and the creativity behind it all is what made me laugh.So if you don't get offended easily by culture jokes, and you're in the mood to laugh a lot, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If I want a good laugh, it's a sure thing when I pop this movie in. I've read some of the other critiques, and I wonder if we've all seen the same movie. For those that complain about it being racist against white people, let he who has never sinned (told a racist joke) cast the first stone. If you can't laugh at yourself, you got no right laughing at anyone or anything. Sure, it pokes fun at whites, but I think equally, or even more, as much at blacks. If you were offended by this movie you are way too sensitive; it pokes fun at everyone. Just because we can laugh at people's differences does not mean that we disrespect them. Ever laughed at something silly your kids did? Diversity and differences are good, they can also be funny as heck.Let's face it, UB is cool! He's got a cool car, cool clothes, cool moves, and some warm ladies. And the sideburns, too much. Here's the litmus test; my wife is the toughest person to make laugh out loud. We had to watch it twice in a row because she was laughing so hard we missed half the movie. My young kids love it! It's their favorite movie to watch on road trips, and I love it because I can crack up listening to it.Rent it; if you're not busting up within the first 5 minutes, you're likely not going to appreciate the rest of it. Take a chill pill and maybe watch Gandi or something. If you're crying like we were, you're in for a real treat! "},{"Title":"Far better than I expected","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I don't thing I stopped laughing for more than ten seconds while I watched this really funny movie. True, the jokes were predictable, and often rather juvenile, thankfully without the usual vulgarity, but the actors presented them so innocently, and even credibly, that I just had to laugh. The premise, even though absurd and rather racist, had little bearing on the movie itself, and was little more than a small and little noticed prop. I expected Billie Dee Williams and Chris Kattan to be excellent in their roles, and I was not disappointed, but even better, the supporting actors brought a freshness and delight to their parts. And importantly, the producers liked the concept of the movie, and had the business sense to invest enough money into the scenery, the costumes, and the locations to make this hilarious comedy a great success!  "},{"Title":"Funny parody","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I am sick of white-man demonizing movies, and usually wont watch them. This movie, however, was a parody on the whole. It pokes fun at both sides, and with successful comedic relief. I don't know how it rates in textbook guidelines for proper film protocol. All I know is that I chuckled all the way through it, which is rare. It was funny and fun. (The mayonnaise slurping sound effect really struck my funny bone for some reason). A lot of thought went in to the details, I think. And they pulled it off without a lot of foul language and sexual content. Good job in my opinion.The Man (I hate mayo too) "},{"Title":"have no reservations....","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I wandered into the cinema and did something I usually do... go and see a film having not seen the trailers or posters.  I got into this film and laughed my ass off.  It was so good I bought it on DVD.....  Eddie Griffin is hilariously funny.  Granted the plot may be a little weak, but I couldnt help but laugh at all the jokes, screenplay and animation.  It *is* austin powers on a black tip, but better!!See it. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"   I have to agree with someone that submitted a review for Undercover Brother. The person said that the commercials made it look corney. Yes, I didn't go see Undercover Brother because of that reason, but I rented it and I found the film to be entertaining. Dave Chapelle was hilarious as the militant Conspiracy Brother. It was a suprisingly good movie. Eddie Griffin was also good although I wanted to see the real raw talent of Griffin. Believe me, rent the film at your local Blockbuster or just watch it on Starz!. "},{"Title":"I feel good! Pass the mayo.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover Brother celebrates black/white racial differences while spoof-slamming stereotypes in its uproarious tale about a fro bro 007/Super Fly stylin' secret agent (Griffin) who must foil the evil Man's plan to make planet earth mayo white with mind control drug tainted fried chicken sold by a Colin Powell knock-off ala Col Sanders.  Undercover Brother gets its funky self down and done in a quick 86 minutes of a-gag-a-second fun. No complaints here. (B) "},{"Title":"SOLID!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very good, Eddie Griffin is awesome in the Undercover Brother. I would compare it to Austin Powers but with blacks! Sure, it's not a masterpiece, but it'll give you a good laugh!  Also, Chris Kattan is very good in this movie, he delivers a good performance!  "},{"Title":"You'll Laugh Yourself To Tears","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I haven't laughed so hard in years after seeing this. I couldn't believe someone would ever come up with an idea like this but it was hilarious. Undercover Brother (Eddie Griffin) works for the all black Brotherhood. He is hip, he's cool, and he can do donuts in his car with out spilling the drink in his hand. But soon the brotherhood is being challenged by a person called The Man (Robert Trumbull)and Mr. Feather (Chris Kattan) who is taking over Gen. Warren's Chicken Eating Establishment. With the help of Sistah Girl (Aunjanue Ellis) Undercover Brother goes under the ultimate transformation from 'fro' and tennis shirts in becoming a white community man.Now he must infiltrate Mr. Feather's island and fight his way through White She Devil (Denise Richards)and Feather minions. With the help of Sistah Girl and Conspiracy Brother (Dave Chappelle) and Smart Brother (Gary Anthony Williams) will our hero succeed or will he give into the temptation of mayo. A lot of critics found this film offending to the white people but I'm whit and I found it to be absolutely hilarious. The scene when Denise Richards and Aunjanue Ellis are fighting in the shower while Eddie griffin and the two villains watch drinking beer is a classic moment. If you do find something wrong in this on ethics then I don't recommend you to watch anything. Dave Chappelle brings a quick wit and brings laughs at some scenes when Griffin doesn't. This film didn't do well thanks to our 'top' critics but I think its great and harmless. The Brotherhood mite be the funniest part of this whole film, they're afraid of mayo and have a white guy working for them who is constantly annoying to Chappelle.I hope if you see this you find it as funny as I did. Undercover Brother. Starring Eddie Griffin, Chris Kattan, Denise Richards, Aunjanue Ellis, Dave Chappelle, and Gary ANothony Williams.3 1/2 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Hilariously Smart Spoof; You Just Have to Get It","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  OK.  Let me start out by saying that this is a movie for people who get it.  If you don't get parodies, this movie is not for you.  If you don't have an understanding or appreciation of the 70s blaxploitation film culture, you're not going to get Undercover Brother either.  Most importantly, if you don't have an imaginative sense of humor, then you're going to walk out of the theatre saying the same thing I overheard a teenager say after seeing the flick  That was stuuupid!  It sure was, but in a brilliant sort of way, just like many of our favorite blaxplo flicks were in the 70s.Undercover Brother pokes fun at race and ridiculous stereotypes, amidst a smartly thought-out script, funky soundtrack, wild sight gags and well-casted actors in this tale of a funky super black hero caught in the 70s, but living in our time to save the world, with help from the Brotherhood and their white intern, from The Man.  Complete with razor sharp karate moves that would make Dolemite blush and dangerous Afro pics that move at the speed of light, Eddie Griffin plays Undercover Brother as if he was planning to play this part all his life.  Major props also go to Chris Kataan (Saturday Night Live) who is brilliant as The Man's assistant, Mr. Feather.  Kataan is unforgettable in his face-to-face confession with Godfather of Soul James Brown (another scene that you may not get unless you're hip to Soul Brother #1, aka James Brown).But keep in mind, this film is a spoof, and anyone who gets offended by, instead of laughing, at the notion of White She Devil or of the General's Fried Chicken (with free 40 Ounce) commercials, is just not part of the audience that Undercover Brother is intended for.No film has made me laugh harder than any other in a long time, and I have taken comrades of all races who get it to enjoy this wild movie.  It's unfortunate, though, that you really won't get many of the jokes unless you understand some under the table or culture-related jokes.  (Two references that come to mind include Colored People Time and the Kid n Play dance.)Nevertheless, this film is destined to become a cult classic with those who understand, and I can see the beginnings of Undercover Brother parties once this is released on video.  "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was awesome especially if you are a Chris Kattan or a Eddie Griffin fan, they are both really talented actors. It was really great to see them together as 'good vs. evil.' Not only was the movie hilarious, it had some great action pack stuff in there. And it's definitely not the type of movie you can only see it once... or twice. The only thing I would change would be there should of been more of Chris Kattan and his 'black attacks.' (Those were great! I love Chris Kattan's style of acting, it's really unique and that's a good thing. ) "},{"Title":"Just doesn't add up","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie, I admit, I thought it would be a really cheesy druggie low-brow comedy. But the two times I saw the trailer, I was rolling on the floor. And since the local paper gave it three (out of four) stars, I decided to go see it. I've never been more torn over a movie in recent memory. On one hand, the acting is pretty good, and Griffin and crew deliver some hilarious lines. It starts out in a seventies cop/secret agent TV show--a nice touch. But somewhere in the middle, it falls apart. The TV show style presentation is abandoned, and in its place is a movie that is more boring than not. The truly hilarious jokes are spread out pretty evenly, but there's a long time in between them. There hasn't been many good comedy releases in the past few months, so this isn't a bad choice if that's what you want, but in comparison with the Austin Powers' movies and Zoolander (my favorite comedies of the last five years), it doesn't add up. Rating 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It Was A Funny Movie! (Stop Being So Uptight!)","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I gave this a 10/10 This is the best comedy I've seen. Probably THE best I've seen since Airplane! (good comedies are far and few between, IMO. One reviewer compared this to I'm Gonna Git You Sucka and I haven't seen that so yep, this IS the best comedy I've seen since Airplane!) It was funny, original, goofy, and a great parody at the goofy cop shows and blaxplotation films (is that what they were called?) from the 70's.I was happy I watched this.It's a good movie so don't listen to the uptight users here saying it's racist (most white people I know like mayo, though I am and I don't...guess it's all a matter of taste.) Great movie...I recommend it if you want some good laughs and a good hour and a half to waste on a good movie! 10/10 "},{"Title":"You got soul","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie wasn't expecting Oscars. It does what it was made to do. I only give it an 8 because it has some of the funniest lines in it. (Ex Dave Chappelle George Washington Carver made the first computer out of a peanut! A peanut!) The plot basically goes like this When the Man and Mr. Feather (Chris Kattan) plot to hypnotize African-Americans with General Boutwell's (Billy Dee Williams) chicken, the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. recruits Undercover Brother (Eddie Griffin), a modern Robin Hood. With supporting roles include Denise Richards, Neil Patrick Harris, and Chi McBride, Undercover Brother will have you screaming SOLID!!!! "},{"Title":"Anti-white propaganda or parody question?  REALLY?","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I'm quoting a reviewer here on IMDb that said is this film really anti-white propaganda or some silly parody?Wow! I'm shocked that's even a question in anyone's mind. If anyone thinks this film is anti-white propaganda or anti white in any way knows absolutely NOTHING about black people. I could see coming away with that perception from a movie like Django, which is more of an example of black fantasy rage that 99% of black people would never act out in real life. But Undercover Brother is nothing but fun! The movie is based on an online comic strip meant for cubicle workers to goof off online at work. Similar to Lazy Larry. The online comic was not very funny but if you're at work and bored, it was cute little chuckle and good diversion. Now imagine someone took Lazy Larry and fleshed out a script this funny and you'd realize how brilliant this adaptation is of the online comic.If anything, the movie pokes fun at Black people while white people (and our difficult history with them) is barely a backdrop. Example when Undercover Brother realizes that all the conspiracies that have circulated among the black community for decades are true but then he says and OJ DIDN'T do it! And the other agents all turn their heads and look uncomfortable because that's one rumor they can't confirm. That is a joke poking at all the conspiracies wcirculating in our community (some of which I personally believe too, but it doesn't change that is funny and is poking fun at black people. This movie is HILARIOUS! So to answer my fellow member's question - this is mainly a parody of 1970's blaxploitation movies as we see Undercover Brother watching a movie and obviously hero worshiping Jim Kelly, a black action star of the era. "},{"Title":"Hands down favorite!  Chappelle is brilliant!","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie uses the great imagery of the seventies black style along with amazing material to keep you laughing until you cry. The lines are peppered with in your face truths, great music, big Afros and a heavy dose of Chappelle magic. Our family purchased the DVD several seasons ago and we watch it at least 4 or 5 times a year. What's with the 5.7 stars? First of all, it should be a 10. What were they thinking? Our hope is that Dave is inspired by some white folks near Savannah Ga who think he is the greatest and comes back with Undercover Brother II! For now, we will keep watching the reruns and Undercover Brother DVD's until the next work arrives. We are dedicated.You have buy the film and see for yourself! "},{"Title":"Shut yo mouth","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I have not had any prior exposure to this... it's not really a franchise yet, is it...? anyway, I haven't seen the web series, though now I sure would consider it. This is satire, with some fantastic material. The humor is definitely the high point. There are many different kinds of jokes and gags... cleverness, references(to quite a bit of pop culture of the last three or four decades), spoofs and more. No gross-out comedy, I believe, as far as I recall. A lot of it is based on stereotypes, and while one might think that such would lead to a poor result, this actually winds up being very funny and it holds good points, delivered well. A campy, seventies-throwback James Bond-type flick. *And* it's got Billy Dee Williams. The action is well-choreographed and entertaining. All the gadgets are cool. The dialog is well-written, as is the plot. Language isn't too bad. Sexuality is limited to suggestive material, lines and attire. There is mention of drugs. The violence isn't bloody, strong or even remotely serious in tone. I recommend this to fans of the people involved in making this, and anyone to whom the concept appeals. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Standard comedy a little extra soul.","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie as a kid, 9 years old. I'm a white, dutch guy so I back then, I had no idea what I was watching. I laughed a lot at the standard comedy jokes and it became a piece of nostalgia to me.For a very long time I didn't know what the movie was called. But my solid memory left me with the main character's name Undercover Brother, which made tracking the movie at the age of 17 an easy task.I watched it again and yeah, it's pretty funny. It's Austin Powers like; witty comedy, sometimes just random but always well presented. It doesn't really anything new to the concept of comedy and there's nothing to say about the plot, because it's a satire of the cliché plot (as is Austin Powers), so I won't talk about that. Saves me the trouble of talking around spoilers.What I thought was just amazing is the cast and the feeling behind this movie. No, not any of the obvious characters, I'm talking James Brown, but mainly, Snoop Dogg at the end. That's right, Snoop Dogg rapped the end theme of the song.To me, this really goes to show how much connectivity black people have. There may much diversity among them, but for some reason, they all share something us whiteys just don't understand, and probably intimidates the hell out of some of us.What can I say. They got soul and so does this comedy. "},{"Title":"No issues here, just great fun","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Had me laugh out loud! I didn't understand the mayonnaise thing but the scene('s sound) was hilarious.It's a delight to see the characters and their actors taking part in a story about racial/cultural issues - without the issues. All are smooth and stylish, energetic and confident. The puns are delivered lighthearted and at a perfect pace (thanks editor!). The only part where there is a danger of awkwardness is the cheesy scene at the end, on the beach, but this scene too contains the exact right amount of relaxed self humor. A perfect sense of how to put it, by the whole cast and the director. O and the suits are spectacular... "},{"Title":"Undercover Brother is an Undercover Classic","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Yes I know you are probably still gasping over my witting summary but it is true, this movie kicks so much arse it is astounding from its funny jokes and humour to its Cameos by such people like Chris Katten made it extremely enjoyable. The movie is about Undercover Brother who works at the all black super cool spy network. The movie is a must watch for fans of Eddie Griffin and Chris Katten as it keeps you laughing the whole way through. Overall this movie is absolutely great and even to just watch it for the but where he thinks he is white is worth the money alone. I rate this movie 68% and as I say so often thats my 2 cents from LacTheBod. "}{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyed IT!!!!","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" My family and I caught this movie on TV and could not stop laughing. There are some that might say that it is insulting to blacks but there is nothing wrong in being able to laugh at yourself once in a while and accept that we do have our shortcomings along with EVERYBODY ELSE. Basically Undercover Brother is about a brother stuck in a time warp (the Seventies) and helps the black community he then gets recruited into the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D and the story goes from there. The jokes centre around the many aspects of black life and attitudes but I believe it is done with good humour in mind however I found the funniest scene to be fight scene between the two ladies and I also found funny is the way Denise Richard's character pronounced the black girls name wrong when they were in the clothes shop. What I enjoyed is unlike most comedies Undercover Brother remained a comedy from start to finish, there are too many comedies that start of funny and then go serious films like, Big, Kindergarten Cop, Mrs Doubtfire to name a few. Just when you thought undercover brother would go the same way it did not. All in all I enjoyed this movie and I put my money where my mouth is by buying the movie on DVD. All the kids have borrowed it from me to watch it again and they are still laughing. A good movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Spoof of secret agents...with a twist.","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie is well worth the rental(I bought it). Comedy, Action and beautiful acting are some of the reasons... If you are a fan of James Bond and the Mission Impossible genre...and can laugh....This movie is somewhat at the same level as Austin Powers. The movies theme has an ethnic twist which I was very skeptical about at first. But I was soon won over by the writing. Lots of social commentary poking fun at the political correctness and a reverse-racial statements. Chris Kattan is solid in his portrayal of the evil guy who is forced to listen to his conscience. If you like him this is a must see. Heather Graham in leather is another reason....but maybe not worthy of comment compared to the shower scene... Enjoy this fun well written romp. "},{"Title":"One of the most hilarious films in years","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I don't watch a lot of comedies because most seem not at all funny to me. Admittedly I'm not looking out for those films with a lot of interest in seeing them. I didn't think I'd ever see something approaching the hilarity of Office Space ever again until I stumbled across this film one night. I could tell in one or two minutes it was going to be funny. I was not disappointed.The humor seem to have grew throughout the film. The power of this comedy is its entire 'staying power', and with only a few exceptions it builds at the beginning and never lets up. Brilliantly done spoof that manages to strike the perfect tone of balance throughout by the characters ever outrageous pokes at stereotypes of all kinds, the sexuality of black men, especially with white women, is laughed at in all kinds of ridiculous and over the top angles, mixing in the token look of Uncle Tom in a white mans business world to the alter ego of Eddie Griffin, the title character of the movie. Dave Chappelle is fantastic, continually spoofing the angry black man with a conspiracy problem and a weed problem, never quite in on whats the subject but always funny.Billie Dee Williams character was great too and a unforgiving and harsh jab at Ret. Gen. Colin Powell, a military man who held real credentials until his one blemish, going to the UN with news he probably didn't believe (note my opinion) I also do not know if a feeling of resentment by the black community was real or, like much of this film, just imagined and spoofed in this comparison of these two, as 'Gen. Boutwell' turns into a 'down on the farm' character in black face, dancing at the behest of the white world for profit and inclusion in the all white club. But, of course, its out of 'his control', so he is not really responsible for it. If there is a deeper message, its hidden, but I do know it's its a most clever skewering of someone. And that's a real point of the film is how to read it, how far the director is going, and what other stereotypes will be exploded in the viewers face.Whether its 'representing or just pretending' in a way, whether real, imagined, or hilariously spoofed, its all funny. Some spoofs are very artful and accurate in their intent and the complexities of the surroundings are always just as in tune with being over the top as the spirited performances of the cast. Mr. Feather was carried out with hilarity, and was right in line with the outrageous nature of everyone else. (Funny dance scene.) Neil Patrick Harris and Denise Richards (who was maybe featured more than she should have) were both good as well, and it struck just the right balance throughout this laugh fest of all their roles together with the rest of the cast. It stayed funny till its very end. Fantastic job goes out to John Ridley and Malcolm D. Lee on this one. "},{"Title":"Black Soul Brother Helps To Save The world","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I think this movie was really funny it had a lot of jokes. this movie is about how the brotherhood Sitah Girl (Aunjanue Ellis, Conspiracy Brother( Dave Chapelle), Smaryt Brother (Gary Anothony Williams), The Chief( Chi McBride) and lance ( Neil Patrick Harris) hires undercover brother (Eddie Griffen)to help them defeat The Man.This movie has some really funny people in it like Eddie Griffen and Chris Katten. Kids under ten should not see this movie because it has some cursing in it.It also has a little violence in it.Other actors and actress's in this movie include Denise Richards. Billy Dee Williams.Jack nose worthy, William B. Taylor. Shauna Mac Donald, Don Pardo. "},{"Title":"I've rarely laughed so hard!!!","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I've read a lot of reviews that indicated this film was full of racial stereotyping and that is insulting for this reason and that.  That's the point.  The film makes fun of the various stereotypes, both black and white, that exist now and then.  The film starts out with both Undercover Brother, a modern day blaxploitation hero, teams up with the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D., a secret agency seeking to promote black equality, to defeat the Man.  The Man being the figure for the supposed white establishment that governs U.S. society.  The Man is using a mind-controlled Black retired 4 Star General to introduce a mind controlling drug to the Black community via his chain of General's Fried Chicken (GFC) restaurants.  All the U.S. loves the former potential presidential candidate General, he is so well spoken.  Remind you of any other well spoken Black general who was a potential president candidate in 2000?As the film progresses the Undercover Brother and the The B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. track down the Man and after a series of hilarious confrontations with the Man's troops and agents. The final confrontation takes place at the Man's secret Island.  The end of the film is good and promotes racial harmony as members of both races realize the benefit of working together.I love Conspiracy Brother played Dave Chappelle.  Chappelle hasn't been so funny since his role as Reggie in THE NUTTY PROFESSOR (96).  The music is great (I also bought the soundtrack) and anyone who grew up in the 70's will be taken back to their youth.  You know the time when music was original and hadn't been sampled and rapped over multiple times and then passed off as new and original.  The one remake is Snoop Dogg's Undercova Funk but it's hardly a remake as his Uncle, the original performer, Bootsy Collins remakes it with him.  I hope they make an Undercover Brother 2 but don't see how it could be funnier than the original. Until then I think I'll sit down with my Nappy meal and rewatch UNDERCOVER BROTHER again. "},{"Title":"A decent alternative to Powers","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The movie opens with a quick history of African American culture through the seventies and the decline of race relations attributed to the work of `The Man'. We are then invited to view the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D Headquarters. This elite group of black men and women are intent on bringing The Man down. They consist of Conspiracy Brother (Dave Chappelle), The Chief (Chi McBride, Boston Public), just plain Brother (Gary Anthony Williams), Sistah Girl (Aunjanue Ellis, Lovely and Amazing) and Lance the intern (Neil Patrick Harris, Doogie Howser, M.D.).The introductions continue to come quickly. The B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D group's plans at a bank are thwarted by a mysterious karate chopping, afro-wearing agent called Undercover Brother, played to perfection by Eddie Griffin (Double Take). The Man and his lapdog, Mr. Feather (Chris Kattan, Saturday Night Live and Corky Romano), are next and we discover their plan to introduce a new drug to General Boutwell (Billy Dee Williams), a man many feel has the potential to become the first black president of the United States.When General Boutwell (obviously supposed to be a Colin Powell figure) makes his statement to the American public, the drug seems to have taken effect. Boutwell announces that he will be opening a fried chicken restaurant, shocking the nation. Thus begins The Man's `Operation Whitewash'.Undercover Brother is recruited by the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. to help investigate this strange turn of events. Undercover Brother is taken through the initial training in the spy world with hilarious spoofs of bond films. Racial humor, obviously, is at the forefront of this movie and most of it comes from the paranoid rantings of Conspiracy Brother. Dave Chappelle apparently ad-libbed much of his dialogue and it is some of the funniest in the movie.The movie proceeds at a pace usually reserved for MTV music video in fast-forward. This allows the jokes to come quickly and, when one does not work, the movie rapidly moves on to the next one. One of the funniest sequences, ripe with spot-on satire, is when Undercover Brother must infiltrate The Man's headquarters, Multi-National Inc. This is where the audience and Undercover Brother meets the other voluptuous vixen you have seen on the posters, `black man's kryptonite' Penelope Snow (Denise Richards, Starship Troopers). This White She Devil is put in place to deter the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D's operations and succeeds in keeping Undercover Brother stuck in his disguise. At the same time, The Man is busy funding an aggressive ad campaign for the General Boutwell's chicken. The chicken, it is discovered, is more than appears to be. It is up to Undercover Brother to thwart The Man's plans.I really enjoyed this movie, it was a pleasant surprise. It is well directed and is a lot of fun. The movie is short enough that it never has the chance to be crushed under its own sillyness. Overall, the film is just good, clean fun and hopefully will help to show how absolutely ridiculous racial discrimination is. "},{"Title":"still can't stop laughing!!!","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This has some of the best race on race comedy in years. The white trying to be black and vice versa was too funny! chris Katan stole this movie. His character trying to hold back the soul was perfect! He is a comic genious, as are the writers and the rest of the cast. Plus the token White guy a.k.a dougie howser was better than expected. If you like this you will also love Corky Ramano with Chris katan. "},{"Title":"Austin Powers < Undercover Brother","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Does anyone else think UB was a lot better than any of the Austin Power movies? Austin Powers (at least the sequels) was at it's time very hype but I found every movie a dissapointment. The humor was very immature and I found it rarely funny, few grins and probably one major ao laughing but that was pretty much it.But yesterday when I saw UB on the rental store (the place where people rent movies, I'm not a native english-talker) and I was only wondering what's this? I'd never seen ANY ads or reviews so I decided to rent it without knowing anything beforehand. And man, I can't remember when was the last time I laughed as much as I now did (thinking it a bit, probably it's Half-Baked).Eddie Griffin was surprisingly funny and cool, without looking too hilarious. I personally didn't find Chris Kattan that funny, rather one of the weirdest guys I've ever seen, but his dancing scene was one of the craziest scenes in the movie. Denise Richards is sexy as usual since Starship Troopers, but one supporting role steals the whole show. I'm starting to believe that David Shapelle is the best black fast-talking comedian. Although his character is pretty much the same in every movie, his absent minded paranoid pothead character is always funny as... fun.The humor in this movie is very versatile and it's much more sophisticated than the fart and pee-jokes in Austin Powers. The only con which I found, was the fact, that this movie illustrates American society leaving non-Americans a bit outside.But anyways, of the best comedys I've seen. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"ya gotta love it","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Social commentary, humor, big hair, cool driving with the caddy convertible, and umm umm umm Sistah Girl or White She Devil.  And Conspiracy Brother - outstanding!Okay, I liked it.  Now, on the one hand I'd say it does help to have lived through those times, where Mod Squad (tv show) was current.  And for sure if you liked the movie Car Wash, you'd like this.  But even a generation younger than mine (my teenage kids) thought it was outrageously funny.  They don't know about Parliament, Cameo, Bootsy Collins etc. but they recognize what to give up the funk from that genre means, even without being told.Rent the flick and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"black is back!","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is one film that doesn't take itself seriously and neither should you. All the main characters are having fun in this film especially Chris Kattan and David Chappelle they should make a cop buddy movie together! The colours and sets are well done with the action scenes involving a little wire-fu but at least no more matrix rip off special effects. Turn up the movie for the great soundtrack and enjoy. 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Lighten up, folks...","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I read the user comments on this film, and was shocked to see people claiming it was not funny due to its promotion of racial stereotypes.This just in the film is the blaxploitation parody equivalent of Austin Powers. And it's pretty funny, as anyone who lived through the 70's would agree.Those of you who live on planet Earth will enjoy the film for what it is; an amusing takeoff on a genre that was already kind of over the top, and a film that is far better than the last two Austin Powers films.Oh, and did I mention that Denise Richards is in it? Why are you still reading this review? Hie yourself down to your local video purveyor. "},{"Title":"THIS IS A GREAT DAY FOR BLACK PEOPLE OF ALL RACES!!!!!","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover Brother is one of those rare movies that blows you away and you least expect it.  When I first saw the previews of this movie it looked alright, I was not expecting a brilliant film, what I got was one of the funniest films I have ever seen.  Eddie Griffin who has been hit and miss in his short career really hits his mark as Undercover Brother.  He is classic here.Undercover Brother is a hero trapped in the 1970s.  He can fight, he can dance he is funky.  An agency called the Brotherhood catches notice of him and wants him to fight for them.  The Brotherhood is fighting the man, THE MAN ACTUALLY EXISTS!!!  But they are unaware of where he will strike next.  Meanwhile a noted black military is on the verge of running for president and the agency wants to make sure he will get his chance.The movie has brilliant writing and a great cast.  Dave Chapelle had me rolling as Conspiracy Brother.  Gary Anthony Williams is excellent as Smart Brother.  Chi McBride has so many great lines, he has the perfect delivery for this script.  The movie even has James Brown!!!!!!!!  And he is great too.  James Brown is still the Godfather of Soul.The only real hole in the cast is Chris Kattan.  I do not find him funny anyway, but here he manages to have a few good lines.  The movie never lets up.  The one-liners and great scenes just keep coming.  This is a triumphant satire.  From beginning to end this movie will have you crying.  When I first saw the movie I missed half of the lines because my friend and I were laughing so hard and we were not the only ones.To me this was one of those movies that had to be made to a point.  While many may not agree with the satirical overtones of the film it does make light of differences in American society that few in Hollywood or elsewhere discuss.  I do not know what in this movie did it for me.  I loved the seventies photography, the soundtrack was great and the movie at times was deliriously over the top.I loved the catfight between Sista Girl and Penelope Snow.  The scene where Undercover Brother meets the Brotherhood is great, I still laugh at the chairs falling.  Neil Patrick Harris was at times too much for words.  For those that think this was an Austin Powers ripoff this was actually based on an internet comic strip.  And personally I saw little similarity between this film and Austin Powers.  Austin Powers was just a silly little film.  This was a satire and the plots were hardly what I call similar.While a lot of people did not like it I think this movie rocks.  This is a great satire.  I do not know if they will make a sequel to this, and maybe I do not want them to.  This is the kind of film that can only be done once.  If they make a sequel to this movie it will be hard to capture the magic and power of this one.  All I will say is watch it and you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Made me laugh..","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  OK I found this movie quite funny. If anyone out there is a big Dave Chappelle fan they will love this movie. Conspiracy Brother was the best. The one part where he goes off on the word Good had me on the floor dying. If you like the general goofy stereotypical movie you will like this one. If you are really PC or think your race is perfect and don't like to hear other people make fun of it then don't watch this movie.7/10 "},{"Title":"Solid! I love this movie","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this movie so many times, I can just run the whole movie through in my head if I have absolutely nothing to do. I totally respect other people's opinion in saying that they do not like this movie, but, if you are going to criticize it, please do NOT say that it has bad casting, because the casting was excellent, particularly for Sistah Girl, White She-Devil, Undercover Brother/Anton Jackson, Conspiracy Brother, Mr. Feather. Personally, I believe in this movie, Chris Kattan has permanently lost his sanity. All in all, this movie is a must-see!********* 10/10 "},{"Title":"Very Funny Retro 70's/Retro Blaxploitation Comedy.","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Before I start my with my review I would like to address the politically correct whiners who whined about this movie being racist LIGHTEN UP, PLEASE! YOU P.C. CRYBABIES MAKE ME WANT TO PUKE. Now, as for the movie. Funny from beginning to end. Black and White racial stereotypes are made fun of with equal opportunity without being mean-spirited. Obvious comparisons have been made to AUSTIN POWERS, but another reviewer made a good comparison to BLAZING SADDLES with it's racial humor. As for Eddie Griffin, a funny stand-up whose previous movies (FOOLISH, DOUBLE TEAM) were duds finally gets a good vehicle for his talents. A sharp script and a fine supporting cast, which includes Dave Chapelle, Aunjanue Ellis and Denise (I'm so dense) Richards, makes this one of the better comedies of last year. "},{"Title":"The Brother is Great!!!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  UNDERCOVER BROTHER is one of those movies that you either really like or don't like at all.  The humor is typical but may not be appreciated by everyone.All the typical 70's/SHAFT like characters are there and the movie delivers.  Following the same lines as the AUSTIN POWERS movies, UNDERCONVER BROTHER does justice for itself.The characters are all pretty funny and the laughs are there from start to finish.  Keep a lookout for some great political jokes.UNDERCOVER BROTHER is definately funny and was a hit on my side.  I give UB a 7/10 "},{"Title":"we want the funk!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Austin Powers with soul!  heh heh.  To the one or two reviews I have seen that blast this film as racist, I humbly request that you lighten up. This makes fun of EVERYONE.  As a white person, you won't hear me getting mad over the accusations that all white people watch Friends, eat mayonnaise and listen to Micheal Bolton.  You will see me laughing ferociously at it, though.  I thought the white people jokes were probably the funniest in the whole movie.  The entire cast was excellent and the story was incidental to all the goofy jokes and sight gags.  It doesn't MATTER what this movie is about, because a plot is secondary to making sure the jokes are funny. The jokes ARE funny, too. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Hilarious","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Griffin can be extremely funny when he wants to be. The serious look on his face while pulling off these gags made my sides hurt. A white version of The Thong Song played as muzak will make you double over and spit up whatever you're drinking. Chris Kattan is his usual over-the-top self, and the cameo with James Brown is priceless. Much, much better than expected! "},{"Title":"Funny, funny, funny!  I cried I laughed so hard!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is truly a comedy.  If you like sophisticated humor then don't bother.  This show is like the old In Living Color show.  They poke fun at everybody, black and white.  It also has a good dose of making fun of the 70's along with a bit of slapstick.  I loved it!  All that I can say is Thanks Brother. You got soul!  ) "},{"Title":"A Sleeper.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Rent this movie if for nothing else than to approve of its attack against Political Correctness. The jokes cut both ways in this one, and the movie proves that situations and jokes can be funny even when involving the hyper-sensitive area of race relations. Chris Kattan (sp?) however, continues his streak of unfunny appearances by a comedian. "}{"Title":"Watch this Jive Talking Mo Fo of a movie now","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film is bloody good !! has some fine moments of comedy splender. A bit OTT at times but well worth it all in all, I wouldnt go as far as to give it 10-10 more like 7-10. How ever after getting the movie from a reliable source in the industry p .I observed various boom microphones all to willing to be movie stars , and I hope this version  was pre final release ) ...Watch this movie its good, want to go watch Starsky and Hutch just to see Huggy Bear one mo time  later "},{"Title":"One freaking, kick a$$ boogie-woogie funny movie","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of life's pleasant surprises. I was not only moved to hysterics, but believe it or not there's a comical charm to this movie that defies analysis.Don't question it. Just see it. You will enjoy it.Eddie Griffen you a funny, funny man.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw it like the day it came out but I never got around to reviewing it till now... OH MY GOD I LOVED IT!!!!!!!!!  Well maybe thats because I love Chris Kattan........ well anyways... I dragged all my friends to go see it because he was in it, and he didn't disappoint!  He did a really good job as Mr. Feather!!!!  The rest of the cast did good but I liked Chris's part the best.  When it comes out on DVD I'm gonna buy it and watch it over and over!!! Peace out Chris!!!!!~Christina Feather ;-)~ "},{"Title":"70's Satire is the funniest film I've seen this summer!","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm a firm believer in going to the movies to be entertained and this one did it for me.  It is a kick-back and enjoy satirical look at the 70's. One will enjoy the movie more if they actually lived during the time.  There are many references to the 70's and late 60's that a younger person might not understand.  The whole Magilla works for me.   "},{"Title":"Lots of laughs, and a huge afro!","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I like Eddie Griffen's work in Double Take, so I was purely basing his past on whether or not to see this movie. I had no idea what it would be about, only that he would be in it. I went in hoping that it would be up to par with Double Take on the comedy. It was. I missed the first 15 minutes due to a traffic accident tying me up, but the most of the movie that I saw was very well done. It also had a very pretty and talented actress, Denise Richards, who was very good in The World is Not Enough. Chris Kattan, always one of my favorites from SNL, gave something extra to this movie as well. I recommend this movie to anyone over the age of 13, just as the rating suggests. Some things may not be appropriate for younger kids, but it's up to you. It's very funny. "},{"Title":"Representin'...","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Director Malcom D. Lee's Undercover Brother starring Eddie Griffin is one of the funniest I have seen in years. Props to Lee and the story by John Ridley for keeping it real, crisp, and operating with nothing off-limits as targets. It is not just a blaxploitation satire-- it is just plain funny. My bud, John, said that the timing and rhythm of the jokes are excellent, and what really works is that Lee has the characters play it straight. The movie is truly for Black people of all colors... An example, when Undercover Brother (Griffin) says Behind every strong black man is... The police? replies Conspiracy Brother (a drop dead funny David Chappelle).The solid and solo, Undercover Brother, encounters the sexy Sistah Girl (Aujanue Ellis) of the B.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. during a failed bank robbery attempt. Undercover Brother is asked to join the B.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. to battle The Man (Robert Trumbull). Yes, there really is The Man. The Man's right hand is the evil Mr. Feather, played by psycho funny Chris Kattan. Also at the B.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. is white intern Lance (played by a very good, Neil Patrick Harris), a result of Affirmative Action.There is a crisis General Boutwell (Billy Dee Williams playing a whacked Colin Powell parody) instead of announcing his candidacy for U.S. President is opening a chain of fried chicken stands--The General's Chicken as opposed to the the Colonel's. Conspiracy Brother (Chappelle) points out that fried chicken is a conspiracy by The Man to control Black people. So it's up to Undercover Brother to infiltrate The Man's lair. So he must be trained, including eating food with mayonnaise. Whoa. But no sooner is Undercover in he meets Black man's Kryponite-- Penelope Snow aka White She-Devil (played by funny and sizzling Denise Richards). Will our hero be turned by The Man? Hmm...From the trailer, everyone saw the martial arts fight scene between White She-Devil and Sistah Girl evolve into a slow-motion shower, hot chick sequence, while Undercover Brother and She-Devil's henchmen take time out from fighting for drinks and food, reclining on the sofa, and enjoying the sporting event. This is pure genius. The action star jokes along with the homage to Bruce Lee and Enter the Dragon are awesome. Eddie Griffin nails the Shaft/ Super Fly parody, and playing self absorbed makes it work. Denise Richards as She-Devil is totally hot, and a great comic talent-- she is perfect. David Chappelle as Conspiracy Brother is hilarious, and almost steals the movie.See Undercover Brother. It will make you laugh. It is smart, funny, so politically incorrect-- keepin' it real. Solid. "},{"Title":"Solid!!!","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a  bad motha...shut yo mouth! Okay, if you didn't laugh at the previews, especially the car skid scene, then this might not be the movie for you. If you are ready for a movie where you can just sit back, relax and let your conscience be free, check it out! Dave Chappelle had me dyin, Chris Kattan is so-so, and Denise Richards and Aunjanue Ellis are ridiculously funny and sexy. Solid!  "},{"Title":"If you like Dumb & Dumber, Naked Gun, Austin Powers (I)...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Then you will love this movie.  It is silly, it makes fun of itself beautifully, and is in no way, shape, or form meant to be taken seriously.  The comedic timing was perfect from beginning to end.  As I read some of the other comments from users on this site, I gathered that the gen-x crowd is the one who will get the most enjoyment out of this film.  For me, it was a treat. "},{"Title":"I can't wait for the remake of Black Belt Jones","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  	Eddie Griffin stars in this funny, often hilarious, send-up of the '70s era Blaxploitation movies.  Here he plays the Robin Hood of the Ghetto recruited by the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.Hood in their battle against, The Man.  It appears that, yes, there is one person leading the never-ending battle to keep the Black Man down.  His latest plot involves brainwashing a retiring General, played by Billy Dee Williams, and keeping him from running for president.  Undercover Brother joins Sistah Girl, Smart Brother, Conspiracy Brother, and the White Boy in this battle against The Man and his minions, The White She-Devil and Mr. Feather. 	Griffin is great in this role.  He obviously has a reverence for that bygone era of the '70s and his parody is dead on for many of the movies that were hits then.  His love of Jim Kelly will be a hoot for fans of Enter the Dragon and other great movies like Black Belt Jones.  Jokes fly throughout this movie with many site gags.  Some do fall flat but others take hold and leave you shaking with laughter.  This is definitely one to listen closely to as many jokes are laced underneath the dialogue of other conversations and are even funnier than the main joke.   "},{"Title":"Great Parody of black exploitation era","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The film Undercover Brother is a smart, clever, and hilarious comedy/parody. Everyone hits their marks, even Denise (pay attention to my boobs, not my acting) Richards.  This movie is clever from the opening credits and the narration detailing the climax of black soul and pride in the 1970s to the early 1990s where Steve Erkal symbolizes the decline of black pride & soul. I really liked this film. The direction is strong, Eddie Griffin is perfect for the role, Dave C(one of the funniest men on the planet)reprises his usual role in movies as the pot head, and Denise Richards give a great performance as a ditzy damsel in distress, although I'm not sure it will make up for her work in The World is Not Enough. This is a funny , funny movie, for all ages, it doesn't even resort to sex scenes or scenarios although it does have a funny, sensual cat fight scene in the shower.  I give it 3 1/2 out of 4 stars. Go See It. "}{"Title":"Solid!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  OK, OK, it's basically a black Austin Powers, but it's not claiming to be more than that, it's reasonably well made, and a good 65% is downright hilarious. But I agree completely with the member who said this is a movie you have to get. Meaning that, as a 40-year-old A.A. male seeing this in a downtown Washington theatre with a strong presence of folks my age and slightly above (i.e., old enough to remember when all of the black references were taken seriously), then not only did I get it but so did the rest of the audience -- the perfect conditions in which to see this movie. Chances are most (under 25, non-black) folks who don't fall into at least one of these catagories better stick with Episode II, even on the 3rd go-around. The member who tried to compare the two films is precisely what I mean by not getting it.I realize it's an odd concept -- a summer movie that ISN'T made to appeal to absolutely everyone -- but, hey. See for yourself. What it is! "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard I thought my stomach would bust!","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, let me begin by saying that the movie has no serious redeeming features nor does it try to produce anything other than laughs.  I actually saw the movie twice because there are several jokes hidden in the background that I missed the first time.  Definitely one of the best funny movies in a few years. "},{"Title":"solid!","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's like a funkified Austin Powers. Not for everybody, but I personally thought it was hilarious. Dave Chappelle as Conspiracy Brother is gold, and Neil Patrick Harris as the unhip white intern (working at the Brotherhood on affirmative action) has some of the funnier scenes in the movie. Don't see it thinking you'll get Mozart, although the jokes really don't stray into the crude farrelly brothers genre for the most part. It's very funny, and if you'd laugh at a joke about slow white athletes or proving 'blackness' via a soul handshake machine, then by all means see this movie! "},{"Title":"Really Really Funny!!!!","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the most hilarious movies I've ever seen.  I couldn't stop laughing throughout the WHOLE movie.  Dave Chappelle damn near comes close to stealing the show away from Undercover Brother.  Chris Kattan is really funny as well when tries to act black.  I really recommoned this movie to people who have a great sense of humor! "},{"Title":"terrific movie","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This was a fantastic movie.  Eddie Griffin is going to become a star after this.  His acting and dialogue were incredible, as were Dave Chappele and Neil Patrick Harris (scene stealer).  the plot is simple enough and the movie has enough funk and soul for a sequel or two. "},{"Title":"UNDERCOVER BROTHER IS ONE FUNNY MOTHER!!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  What a great sense of humor & comedy for all the parts of this movie!! The best thing to do with this movie is go enjoy it, don't sit there and read about it. If you liked the trailer/preview, this movie is for you. 10/10. If you didn't like the preview, your funny bone is not working! "},{"Title":"This is the funniest movie I've ever seen!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I loved Undercover Brother. The somewhat racial comments that are said in the movie are ok because of the balance in comments between people. Eddie Griffin's crime fighting ways with his hilarious Kung-Fu sound make the movie even better. And the way that Kattan does his black impressions is some of the funniest acting I've seen in a long time. If you like comedies (in general) you should see this movie. Ive never been in a theater that was so loud with laughing.  "},{"Title":"Austin Powers Meets Shaft","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  > The 70's will best be remembered for polyester, shag carpeting, bad bumper stickers and that wonderful genre known as the blaxploitation flick.  With a noticeable absence of roles for people of color, several directors took matters into their own hands and produced such classics as Blacula, Foxy Brown and of course Shaft.  While the films often personified cheese, they gave many actors a chance at feature roles, when they would other wise have been bit players.With his super fro, and Cadillac Seville Anton Jackson, aka Undercover Brother is the epitome of cool.  Anton is recruited by B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. and together with Smart Brother, Conspiracy Brother, and Sistah Girl he is determined to help in the battle against The Man. When the first African American likely to win the presidency opts to pursue a 'different' path, they know that something is wrong and are determined to set things right.I saw the trailer for this film at another premiere and laughed so hard that I was in tears.  I therefore assumed that as is typical of most trailers these days, they had shown all the funny scenes.  Still, when I was given tickets to the premiere, I couldn't say no.  I was so happy that I didn?t.Undercover Brother is without a doubt the funniest movie that I've seen in a very long time, and it doesn't rely on the gross-out humor that has become so tiresome (and unfunny).   From the opening credits with its outlandish seventies style graphics to the ludicrous finale, there is nothing that I wouldn?t recommend.Eddie Griffin, the best part of the recent film The New Guy (except for Eliza Dushku in her bikini modeling sequence ?  I?m a guy, so sue me) is hilarious here as Anton.  Griffin has a fabulous array of one liners (?Mess with the fro and you got to go?), a wardrobe that would make a disco queen look conservative and enough seventies chic, that you just have to have more.  The sequences with Griffin as a pseudo white guy are uproarious. The supporting cast also does an excellent job.David Chapelle is pure ludicrous as Conspiracy Brother, reading oppression into everything (you'll want to think twice before saying good morning to someone again) and determined to bring down The Man.  Chi McBride is the stereotypical screaming captain/boss featured in such films as Beverly Hills Cop or 48 Hours, but here, the nonsensical rants make no absolutely no sense and are of course that much more amusing.  Denise Richardson, as wily femme fatale White Cheetah, is cunning foe both ditzy and deadly.  Neil Patrick Harris, is wonderful as Lance the token white guy in B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. ? he is so white that it can be painful to watch (he is even more painful to listen to).  And how could I write a review without mentioning Billy Dee, who still manages to ooze cool as a zombie.Undercover Brother is definitely not a PC film, but so what?  Everyone that I went to the premiere with ? a very diverse crowd - complained that their sides hurt from laughing so hard. Solid! "},{"Title":"Solid! Undercover Brother is one bad mutha SHUT YO MOUTH!","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover Brother is a hilarious celebration of African-American culture, specifically as it relates to the blaxploitation era of the 70s.  Instead of being a series of inside-jokes only available to those of the culture, the film delivers the goods in a way everyone can appreciate and laugh along with.  Its this spirit of shared fun that makes this a great film for all.Eddie Griffin was born to play the role as UB and Chris Kattan brings a special quality to his role as Mr. Feather, henchman of The Man, while David Chapelle threatens to steal the show as a militant and very paranoid Conspiracy Brother. Neil Patrick Harris (yes, Doogie Hauser) is a great and surprising bonus as Lance.Also bringing some sexy fun to the show is Aunjanue Ellis as Sistah Girl and a confidant Denise Richards as White She-Devil.  Two gorgeous women who shine in their roles while having a blast doing them.Undercover Brother respects its PG-13 rating, rarely daring to push its luck. Apart from an almost shocking but certainly hilarious scene near the end, the movie will prove to be a safe bit of fun for all, no more risky than its alter-ego, Austin Powers.It aint no thang.... Undercover Brother is truly SOLID! "},{"Title":"blaxploitation austin powers","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  i was expecting some idiotic movie with gross-out, moronic gags.  but, was pleasantly suprised at how clever this movie was.  sure, alot of jokes fall flat but it's short running time (80 min) make it not feel long and it has about 10-15 really funny jokes in it.  this will probably be the austin powers of summer 2002... the first austin powers, not the second. "}{"Title":"The African American Austin Powers, but smarter","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this at a free preview screening last night. I was expecting something entertaining, but vapid. I was pleasantly surprised to see some clever humor and whole ton of amusing, but good-natured racial stereotypes (although all of them relating to Blacks or Whites).  There's plenty of good references to classic blaxploitation films like Dolemite et al. The casting was probably the best part of the movie. Even though the star (Eddie Griffin) was at times the weakest element in the movie, it worked well overall. A great film? No. Just over an hour of fun. Damn straight. I'm guessing we will be seeing sequels for summers to come.... "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover Brother is a hilarious movie.  Eddie Griffin shines greatly as Undercover Brother, the brother who is trying to stop Chris Kattan from stopping a black man's presidential campaign.  He is joined by the hot Denise Richards, Chi McBride and a few more people.  Eddie Griffin goes ahead and throws some afro pics at people and fight crime, undercover-brother style.  I've been dying to see this movie and I am happy that I was able to get an early screening before the movie comes out.  The plot is simple enough.  The acting is very good.  Denise Richards is very hot. And all the other stuff is good.Overall the whole movie is very good and I enjoyed every second.  Any person who likes comedy should watch this.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Incredibly funny.","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" When I first saw this show I thought it was going to be another lame spoof series on the order of Scary Movie or maybe Austin Powers.What I found instead was a comedy on the level of Mel Brooks at his very best, a classic Saturday Night Live skit, or a stand-up comic who knows his audience perfectly.Race relations and Hollywood stereotypes couldn't have been portrayed any funnier. The parody was clever and what crude humor there was didn't violate the bounds of decency as so often happens with this genre of movie.Yes, there are people who won't get it. There are people who will find the racial stereotypes to be stupid and won't understand that it was intentionally so or feel the comic effect.But that's a good thing. It's better that you read a review like that before you go see this movie than what I wrote so that you can be very pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Initially very funny but it seems to lose steam about midway through","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The first half or so of this movie is amazingly funny and insightful. It takes a very gentle look at race relations and only would offend idiots who frankly don't like to laugh (such as super-politically correct people). It's wonderful and I found my self laughing again and again. However, about midway through the movie, the film really seemed to bog down in too much plot. In other words, when the jokes were coming again and again, it was great. When the movie tried to create a story and plot, it slowed to a crawl (at times). This isn't to say that it was bad--it just slowed a lot and didn't sustain the momentum.In addition, further into the film, Chris Kattan (who is very, very annoying and grating) becomes a greater focus in the film. Uggh! He seems to be the 21st century's new version of Pauley Shore when it comes to being irritating and excessively mugging for the camera.Without Chris Kattan and with a little less plot in the second half, it would have been a fantastic film. "},{"Title":"I see white people","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It's time to get funky. Never have i more wanted to cultivate a full blown afro, being a hispanic male of 67 it's very difficult and doesn't suit my handle bar moustache. I have settled to grow a below the belt afro, as a mark of respect to undercover brother. Being a white male its difficult not to take a look at my own life ( 67, living in a basement and whacking off in the tool shed because the walls are awefully thin and the dog trys to join in). Since watching the film i have moved into Compton and i've been sticking it in a man, sorry sticking it too the man ever since. This film has been branded racist, i suggest that the people saying this are the racists (KKK by the way). I owe my new life to undercover brother. On a scale of 1 to 10, i'd give it a A+ "},{"Title":"Sense of Humor Required...","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" OK, after reading a few of the other reviews, I feel the point of this movie was lost on some people. Much like 'Blazing Saddles,' the prejudice in this movie was meant as a joke. This movie makes fun of all races&#133;black and/or white. If anyone is offended, then they aren't getting it. So, this isn't the best comedy of all time, but it is very amusing and has a great soundtrack. There are a lot of subtle and not-so-subtle stabs at both blacks and whites, you really have to watch this movie a few times to catch it all. The plot isn't deep but at least it keeps moving, and the cast is pretty solid (to steal a term from the movie). All in all, I wasn't overly thrilled with this movie when I first saw it, but after seeing it again and a few times more, it has really grown on me. Maybe as I am a child of the 70's, and I still listen to a lot of Funk music from that era, that I can really appreciate this flick. Keep an open mind, try not to take any of it too seriously, and pay close attention to some of the less-obvious humor and I think you will clearly enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"O brother, where aren't thou?","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" There were so many blaxploitation movies that there had to be one summing them all up. Undercover Brother is it. Portraying the ultra-cool, polyester-clad, watermelon-sized-afro-sporting, 1974-Cadillac-DeVille-driving title character (Eddie Griffin) helping the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. stop an evil white guy known only as The Man from turning all black people into Oreos, the movie is a gag a minute. It's the sort of thing that you'd expect from Mel Brooks or the team behind Airplane!.In case that anyone is wondering about stereotypes, I guess that the movie does promote some (namely the mayonnaise), but it's all a joke. Granted, this is not a movie for sensitive people; they're deliberately not going for political correctness here. Overall, the movie really does make one nostalgic for the '70s. And it gives you a feeling of black power, whether you're white, black, or otherwise. Also starring Chris Kattan, Denise Richards, Aunjanue Ellis, Dave Chappelle, Chi McBride, Neil Patrick Harris, Gary Anthony Williams and Billy Dee Williams.Blackness confirmed! Ha ha! "},{"Title":"Conspiracy Brother!","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" My Favorite character is Conspiracy Brother. He is funny and is always thinking someone is out to get him. My favorite part is when Mr. Feather was trying to dance. All so another part in the movie that I liked was when Undercover Brother was dressed like someone when Mr. Feather attempted to kidnap him. He started to dance and sing say it loud! Then Mr. Feather yelled I'm black and I'm proud! It was funny. I think Mr. Feather is mixed. My favorite line is Well where I come from we like to say our E's and our R's It was only funny because Undercover Brother did not grow up where they said E's and R's. It was all so funny because he was wearing some khaki's and red tennis shoes plus a white polo shirt with a yellow sweater tied around his shoulders. "},{"Title":"This movie was GREAT","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I thought undercover Brother was great it will have you laughing threw the whole movie. The part i liked was when undercover brother was making a beat on a glass wall when he was breaking in trying to get something and he was making a circle between the glass and end up making the whole glass break that was so funny i was crying happy tears. I also thought that the message of the movie was very helpful because it is saying that it don't matter what race you are you can still help each other out.I liked the part when undercover brother was acting like he was white to find more evidence about their cast that was really funny too. I thought that they needed to put some more famous people in their like Omarion,t.i.,usher,nick cannon,young jock,r-kelly,liljon,. But other then that i thought that the movie was really funny i can watch undercover brother a 100 times in a row. "},{"Title":"It was a great movie.","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" It was a great movie one of the funniest movies i saw in 2002 in i like all act in the black fighting the white it was just funny to see in i enjoy in i hope in the future that they came out with a UnderCoverBrother2 because it was classic, i lot of people enjoy it in a lot people can connect to the movie. I one way i connect to the movies was this get a alone no matter if u black or white. in i like the cast i think Dave Chappelle did a good job in i hope to see him again in a movie or in UnderCoverBrother2 but it was fun in know it sold a lot. and i hope to see Eddie Griffin he is so fun he steal the the movie to me. "}{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" To begin with,I thought UnderCover Brother was very funny.The reason I thought UnderCover Brother was funny is because every time something happens he use those ugly shoe's.With his leather pants.He thought he was fine with that ugly Afro,and that ugly car.My favorite part is when Sista girl and UnderCover Brother was fighting the white lady and her security and then the white lady and Sista Girl was fighting in the shower then the water came down in so then the guards and UnderCover Brother sat down with the guards and they start eating popcorn while the girls were fighting and taking each others clothes off. Everyone that was in the movie knew how to act very well.And that is why the movie was good.And that is my opinion about the movie. "},{"Title":"I found this a very entertaining film","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Undercover Brother is an entertaining film. I enjoyed its easy and light handling of race relations, and yet still allowing some its character's to make fun of their own stereotyped social cast. However, I think that some of the scenes were pushed a bit too far, such are the near conclusion fighting scenes. The music was pleasingly supportive. I recommend this movie to anyone who is old enough to understand its humor and understand its meaning. The ironic twist of this movie is that The Man, who is against the development or advancement of the Black Culture in his motives turns out to be no different from those people against whom he is seems to fight. "},{"Title":"It's perhaps not perfect, but it sure offers some good laughs","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" When I read the title for the first time and saw that this was a comedy, I already knew that I shouldn't expect too much of this movie. Not that I was convinced that the overall quality wouldn't be any good, I just knew that I didn't have to expect the most original story line. But that's OK. When it comes to comedies, I do not always need very intellectual dialogs, a lot of special camera points,... All I want then are some good laughs and that's exactly what this movie gave me.When a black candidate runs for president, 'The Man' tries to derail his campaign. 'The Man' runs a group of white people who will do anything to protect their own values from other (read black) influences. But now he may have found his match. Anton Jackson is an African-American man who seems harmless, but who works as an undercover agent for a secret all-black Brotherhood. Undercover Brother - that's his real name - will have to infiltrate in the world of the white people in order to prevent The Man's evil plans...If you have to explain someone where to situate this movie, than I would call it a black version of Austin Powers. A guy who still seems to live in the seventies, who appears to be a secret agent, the costumes,... there are plenty of similarities between the two movies. The main difference this time is that the main character isn't white, but black. Most of the time the humor in this movie is exactly based on that aspect. The differences between black and white are constantly used as a source of inspiration. Jokes about white people who all like mayonnaise while the black don't, about the fact that the black people have 'soul' and the white don't,... can be found all over the movie. And I must say that a lot of them were really good. OK, not everything in this movie worked that well, but overall the humor was OK. Also OK was the acting. Eddie Griffin was very nice as Undercover Brother / Anton Jackson, Aunjanue Ellis did a good job as Sistah Girl and Denise Richards was very lovely as White She Devil. But those are only a couple of the actors that played a major role in this movie. All other actors did a nice job as well of course.Overall this movie was OK, although the story was sometimes a bit too shallow to make this movie really work. Still, that wasn't too much a problem, because I still had a good time with all the racially inspired jokes. I give this movie a 6.5/10 for that. "},{"Title":"early mel brooks level of funny","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hysterically funny from beginning to end.  The jokes fly rapid fire and the hit to miss ratio is much better than for either Austin Powers or Scary Movie, both of which I liked but both of which were uneven (and both of which often sunk lower for laughs).  Undercover Brother is a very smart dumb comedy, it's silly from beginning to end but it manages to toss in some pointed comments about race.  And honestly, I'm always fascinated by things that point out the cultural differences between white and black (I had no idea mayonaise was a white thing).  Eddie Griffin and Chris Kattan are both terrifically funny.The premise is pretty thin - basically the sort of thing you would see in a Saturday Night Live sketch - but the movie keeps it going by playing the basic blaxploitation spy story straight (an organization called The Brotherhood tries to take down an organization lead by The Man.) .  If you were to take out all the jokes you wouldn't have a great movie, but you'd actually still have a watchable action picture, as opposed to a movie like Scary Movie.  I don't know why I've never heard of this movie.  It's far superior to Austin Powers (which is far, far, far, far, far superior to Austin Powers 2).  Why is this movie so obscure?  Could it be the machinations of ... The Man? "},{"Title":"Austin Powers move over!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't think I would really get into this movie (spoof movies have to actually spoof something instead of making up their own world and spoofing it), but I found myself laughing out loud throughout the entire film.Having grown up during the '70's and watching many a blaxploitation flick I can say that this film is definately a tribute to them all.  I especially like the fact that it wasn't a white against black movie at all.  One has to tread lightly on that subject in this PC world we now live in.  Both races were equally lampooned.  No stereotypical stone was left unturned. And the cast seemed like they all had a blast making this movie.If the studio is willing to take a chance this could be a franchise right next to Austin Powers! "},{"Title":"Great.","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was great. A much better and funnier movie than any of the Austin Powers movies. Sadly, however, Chris Kattan does his normal job of making the movie worse than it should be. Minus the end fight, every minute he's on the screen he sucks the humor and joy out of the film.However, Kattan is in the movie only for bits and pieces. The rest of the cast is perfect. Chappelle does the best job in this movie. His Conspiracy Brother has most of the best lines in the movie. Also, Billy Dee Williams is good as a retired General and of course Denise Richards is hot in tight clothes.I suspect however, the reason this movie didn't make it big at the box office is because The Man didn't want it to... "},{"Title":"Nice When It Should Be Nasty","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Amusing but lacking a much-needed pungency, Malcolm D. Lee's parody of the blaxploitation genre at least has enough strength to maintain its eighty-six minute running time. It's pleasant where it should have a mean streak and you can't help but feel it misses a lot of great opportunities. John Ridley (the screenwriter of Oliver Stone's wacky `U-Turn') and Michael McCullers adapt Ridley's internet cartoon series for the big screen with the likable Eddie Griffin in the title role, a black crusader stuck in the seventies (his hero is Jim Kelly) brought into a secret brotherhood (known as `The B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D.') organized to fight the evil white majority--led by `The Man' and populated by caricatures such as the voluptuous White She Devil (Denise Richards) and the nefarious Mr. Feather (an over-the-top Chris Kattan)--as they brainwash a black general (Billy Dee Williams) running for president to instead open a fried chicken franchise. Griffin gets good support from fellow spies Dave Chappelle (who, as the self-righteously paranoid Conspiracy Brother, embodies the film's ignored possibilities), Chi McBride as The Chief, Gary Anthony Williams as Smart Brother and Aunjanue Ellis as Sistah Girl. Unfortunately, there are few memorable lines and very little more than chuckles where there should be guffaws.       "},{"Title":"Excellent, hilarious, a must see!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I came across this movie by accident, channel surfing on the satellite, and I'm glad I found it!  It's one of the funniest movies I've seen.  The music was awesome, the gags were side-splitting.  My favorite scene was Neil Patrick Harris shrieking, Don't call me a SISSY!  I loved everything about it, and I will be buying the DVD and the soundtrack.  Great laughs, light-hearted, very well done!  I give it a 9/10! "},{"Title":"Clever and funny from the first frame to the last!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was clever and funny from the first frame to the last!  I laughed so hard that I almost fell off my couch!  If there is such a term as retro-funny then it definitely fits this movie.  I have always loved Eddie Griffin, Chi McBride, Neil Patrick Harris and Aunjune Ellis, but I think the standout performance was Dave Chappelle!  He made the part of Conspiracy Brother his own.  Anybody who loves blaxploitation movie humor will love this movie and the soundtrack because it definitely gives the people what they want! Right on!  Right on! "},{"Title":"Sharp and irreverent feel-good spoof. Great Friday-night material.","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  For some unexplainable reason this did not do well at the box office.Some pretty sharp political humour is woven into a light-hearted film bursting with visual comedy and one-liners, of the same quality as Trading Places. Wacky set and costume design and dance duels are a match for Austin Powers, as well as nods toward blaxploitation flicks.Eddie Griffin is a hoot, Dave Chappelle's paranoid conspiracist is entertaining and Chris Kattan shines too.Whichever of the reviewers who were muttering about recycled stereotypes not constituting a film, were wrong, and off-target to boot. "}{"Title":"This movie is SOLID!!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie.  The best part was actually at the beginning when the Undercover Brother was in his GOLD caddy and appearing to lose control of it (spinning out etc).  Yet, he had a BIG GULP in his hand filled with orange soda and was SUPER in control the entire time.  Haha.   I laughed at that scene!!!  Chris Kitan was funny also. "},{"Title":"i loved it","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I thought it was just gonna be a regular comedy but it was more. It was awesome. I loved it. It was so funny, I was laughing through the whole movie. The soundtrack was really good. Chris Kattan as the sidekick to the Man was really cool. Go see it! "},{"Title":"UNDERCOVER BROTHER IS..SOLID!!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  After viewing this movie, i was drained...from laughing so much. Their parody on such movies as Shaft and Foxy Brown were as Undercover Brother would put it...solid. Everything from the opening credits to the clothes they wore throughout the movie were perfect. The sound track was booming with classic funk songs which just added even more to the whole groovy experience. Eddie Griffin was really funny as Undercover Brother,as was Chis kattan as a sleazy sidekick to the man. Dave Chappelle, who is always funny did not disappoint here. Denise Richards, who has made a career out of playing bitchy women, does so again with expertise. And of course, how cool would a parody on 70's action movies really be without Billy Dee Williams, who i might add still looks great for his age. All characters involved from smart brother, sister..oh wait i mean sista girl, and even the head boss of the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. were great. Do yourself a favor...don't rent this movie...BUY IT!!!! "},{"Title":"Hysterical fun","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  To be frank - I can't remember when was the last time I laughed in the cinema like an absolute imbecile for 90 minutes straight. I'm currently on 2 Panadols which will hopefully take away the jaw-muscle pain - I don't know about the permanent laughing wrinkles.Message to those who think Undercover Brother wasn't funny or blame it for being racist, lame written, miscast and I don't know what else - see it again, perhaps this time you'll actually get it. This movie is actually intelligent in all of it's dumbness. Stereotypes are cool, especially when they're 'true'. Loosen up and let those goofballs take you for a ride you won't forget. "},{"Title":"not to be taken seriously","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Ahh, nothing like some trashy racial humor to get the laughs going. Obviously for those people expecting to see Oscar winning screenplay this movie lacks a lot, but for sheer silliness Undercover Brother is worth the hour and a half of your time. Dave Chappelle steals the show of yet another movie, and Neil Patrick Harris was just amusing for all his own reasons. If anything, they could have enchanced the plot of this movie by actually explaining and developing Chris Kattan's character. Thats what has made the Austin Powers series so sucessful, developing the comic villain in Dr.Evil.And, the boom mics and tracked camera in the shots were awful, but I think that might be playing into the blaxploitation satire even more, which adds another dimension of humor to the movie. Have you see some of those movies from the 70s? I swear, Dolemite is shot from one camera angle the entire movie, and everytime he punches someone its obvious his fist does not come within 9 inches of the person's face.For both intended and unintended comedy, this is movie definitely deserves a solid rating. "},{"Title":"Funky spoof","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Very funny spoof of blaxploitation films.  The characters' names (Sistah Girl, Conspiracy Brother, Smart Brother etc.) are clues that the filmmakers want to make this a straight parody and satire of blaxploitation films.  The actors play the humor straight fortunately.  If they didn't, this film would be well over the top.  As it is, the parody is quite sharp and on target.  This is a great film to see if you want to escape the pressures of everyday life and just want a break from the daily grind.  It is very funny and good-natured.  Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"generally diverting comedy","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Sort of like `Austin Powers' with a soul-man attitude, `Undercover Brother' is a fun, high-spirited romp that showcases the talents of a number of fine comic talents, not the least of which is Eddie Griffin, who appears in the title role as a throwback to all the big-haired black crime fighters of the 1970's.  The film has some fun with the long established notion of `The Man,' the mythological white dude who supposedly spearheads a conspiracy to keep the black man down.  In this film, `The Man' runs an actual secret organization dedicated to the cause of eliminating all the `black' elements that have managed to infiltrate modern pop culture to such an extraordinary degree.  `Undercover Brother' might have been a funnier film had it not chosen to play it so safe when it came to lining up its satirical targets.  Almost as if afraid to offend anyone, the film never really gets down and dirty into the nitty-gritty of its subject matter.   Nevertheless, the film displays an impressive energy level that compensates for this overall blandness, and the film as a whole exudes such an air of infectious goodwill that one can't help but come out liking it.  The movie is also blessed with a cast that is just bursting with good-natured enthusiasm.   In addition to Griffin, `Undercover Brother' features Chris Kattan, Denise Richards, David Chappelle, Aunjanue Ellis, Neil Patrick Harris, Chi McBride, Billy Dee Williams and even the legendary James Brown playing himself.  Given the sometimes-spotty nature of the John Ridley screenplay &#150; which displays oodles of energy but whose lines rarely achieve the level of hilarity &#150; the contribution made by this highly talented cast cannot be underestimated.  The director Malcolm D. Lee doesn't bring a very distinctive visual style to his work, but he does know how to keep the pace moving at an appropriately light-warp speed.  The musical soundtrack also contributes a great deal to the high-spirited nature of the film.`Undercover Brother,' though far from being the biting social satire it had the potential to become, nevertheless generates enough semi-hearty laughs to make it worth checking out.  "},{"Title":"Solid! entertainment...","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  From the opening scenes through the closing credits, you know you're in the Twilight Zone. Undercover Brother is a hilarious movie that requires a big audience but is better, and much more clever than other spoofs of recent years. For anyone familiar with the 'blacksploitation' movies of the '70s, from Shaft to worse things like Cleopatra Jones, you'll howl at this, with its references to virtually every film ever made in the 1970s and '80s, with allusions to a whole Chevy full of diverse film icons, from the likes of Danny Glover (of Lethal Weapon fame) to Jim Kelly's (only good performance in) Enter the Dragon. Afros, 1970s big body Cadillacs, car chases, James Bond, James Brown (!), General Colin Powell (courtesy of Billy Dee Williams), and fried chicken are all equal targets in this side-splitting spoof directed by Spike Lee's younger cousin, Malcolm D. Lee (no joke!). In this film, everyone is 'kung fu fighting' on the streets of Toronto(?!?). This is a fun movie that rates a 9/10! SO-LID!!   "},{"Title":"It's a comedy, and I thought it was very funny","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is not a drama, its a comedy. For me, good comedy has to be funny but not stupid. I really enjoyed this film. It didn't insult my brain and parts of it were really, really funny. Speaking as someone who grew up in the 70s, I found the music was especially enjoyable and added a great deal to the film. Some highlights the golf-cart chase, the cat fight between Sistah and White She Devil, and the ad for the General's chicken. There were many more funny moments.Behind the humor, some serious points about race relations were raised (and quickly shot down). In its small way, this film is an indicator of improved relations between blacks and whites in the United States. The film pokes fun at just about every racial stereotype you can think of and is fairly even-handed. I think its a good sign when writers can poke fun at both sides.Acting was good, especially Aunjanue Ellis (Sistah), the only capable operative in the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. Denise Richards was great looking (as usual). Eddie Griffin, the lead, was good, but seemed a bit flat at times.Its worth pointing out that without a decent grasp of black culture and racial stereotypes, this movie won't be as funny. I don't expect this film to age well, but for 2002, this is good fun. "},{"Title":"Funny as Hell","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie and DAMN it is funnnnnnnnnnyyyyyyyy, so much better than Austin Powers but with soul I mean it is SOLID gold, I mean I've seen Griffin do some good movies like Foolish & Double Take but this movie takes the cake, great movie and one of the few that the ads don't show the best parts of the movie; SOLID "}{"Title":"A big surprise!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much when I heard about it, but I saw quite a few good reviews of it and decided to see it last night for the hell of it.  To my surprise, it had me laughing a lot.  It's very much in the same vein as the Austin Powers movies and Zoolander (endearingly silly movies w/ spy movie elements that end up being funny), only it takes a little more risks w/ its jokes.  The risks pay off; there is a lot of funny stuff here.  Eddie Griffin, who has had a lot of supporting roles in movies I've made sure to avoid, proves to be quite funny in the lead role (love that afro).  Chris Kattan gets pretty annoying, but his screen time is limited and his fight at the end w/ Griffin is very funny.  The funniest performance in the entire movie is by Dave Chapelle as Conspiracy Brother; he just goes off every time he's on screen and will make you laugh a lot and possibly even shock and offend you, but that's expected as you continue to watch.  I also liked the additions of the gruff and snarling Chief and the Token White Guy.  This movie is solid indeed.  *** out of ****. "},{"Title":"very much more than it seems","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover brother is a movie very much better than its appearance. It is a very very funny movie and make you laughing a lot but this is just a small portion of its being a good movie. This movie is a great satire about the stupidity of the racial conflict and brings a word of peace between white and black people. The director is very good and we all are happy to have a new great black director after the descending of Spike Lee. The movie is a kind of black Austin Powers but very much more intelligent. For sure there will be a sequel, for sure investing more money and we hope better again.If you think to be able to understand it, going over the appearance and you don't get prejudices versus black people (i'm white), go and enjoy it  "},{"Title":"Better than Austin Powers by a long shot... LONG SHOT... get it?","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I was expecting this to be one of those movies that gave up all the good laughs in the trailers.  NOT!  I'm a fan of Eddie Griffin (Double Take anyone?) and was really looking forward to this flick despite all the Austin Powers rip-off bile I've heard everyone taking about.  Screw that!  This movie kicks Austin Powers' butt!  Sure the first one was funny, but the second sucked!  This delightfully hilarious blaxploitation spoof hits all the right marks to elevate it over the other series I mentioned earlier. Sure, a couple of the jokes are a miss, but every comedy has those (Zoolander).  What does hit the mark, hits hard.  I was kicking the seat in front of me when Dave Chapelle was shot and mumbled about crapping his pants from the pain.  By the way, Dave Chapelle steals the show as Conspiracy Brother.  A very funny, light-hearted, non-gross out humor oriented comedy that I will definitely add to my rather large DVD collection.  And part 2 is already in the works!  Happy day! "},{"Title":"Worth watching at least once","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover Brother is a decent comedy even though some of it's jokes fall flat. There is only so much humor that you can milk out of white-black relations but Eddie Griffin manages to make you laugh in this fun film. It has a great funk soundtrack and keeps the pace going so you don't get bored. Bottom Line You should see it and see if you like it, if not it's no big loss. "},{"Title":"There aint no other","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Well there is surely no other undercover brother.  This movie is really good if you are looking to laugh at really outlandish and racial comedy.  There are many references to people and other cultural things of today.  But if you are looking for anything serious you best look else where.  The movie also had its share of language and sexual references so if you find this offensive I don't recommend this movie for you at al  but if it does not bother you and you just want to laugh for about an hour and a half go watch it. "},{"Title":"Solid! laughs","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  UNDERCOVER BROTHER (2002) ****  Eddie Griffin, Chris Kattan, Denise Richards, Aunjanue Ellis, Dave Chappelle, Chi McBride, Gary Anthony Williams, Neil Patrick Harris, Billy Dee Williams, Jack Noseworthy, James Brown (as himself).  Hysterically funny adaptation of the cult Internet animated hero tailor made for Griffin (finally  a vehicle to prove he's one funny guy) &#150; a self-defined hero with a style not unlike Shaft or Superfly (well, at least the funky duds and humongo Afro with pork chop sideburns) &#150; who teams up with THE B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D - an underground secret agency for the African American way of life &#150; out to thwart The Man from whitewashing America.  I haven't laughed from beginning to end of a comedy in many a moon and practically every sight gag, one-liner, and/or slapstick works on every level, low and highbrow thanks to the character's creator John Ridley (who collaborated on the riotous script with Michael McCullers) but it's hats off to Chappelle as the militant headstrong Conspiracy Brother that steals the show with every outrageous vent of his angry spleen; the sexy duplicity of babelicious Richards as Penelope Snow (aka White She-Devil) &#150; &#145;the black man's Kryptonite' &#150; whose hellacious curves and pouty demeanor is campily and knowingly spoofed to full effect; Elllis equally hot and cool as ass-kicking Sista Girl; rotund nerd Williams as Smart Brother the techno dweeb; McBride as the gruff yet lovable Chief; Harris as white boy intern Lance (who arguably has one of the funniest cinematic breakdown fights ever put onscreen) and finally formidably nutty foil Kattan as right hand flunky to the archenemy. In the same vein as AUSTIN POWERS, ZOOLANDER  & POOTIE TANG   quite simply the year's funniest film and one of the funniest films ever made.  Solid! (Dir Malcolm D. Lee) "},{"Title":"Fine premise, not-so-good delivery","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm pretty sure the point of this film was to make a spoof of the 70's blaxploitation flicks, like Keenan Ivory Wayans did in I'm Gonna Git You Sucka.  Good intention, but the result is all over the map.  I've read a lot of comparisons to Austin Powers, and it is in the same format as the Austin Powers movies--just spoofing different genres--with the weird camera angles, zoom-ins and asides to the camera, but the end result of Undercover Brother is much less successful.  It's not a bad film, I found it watchable, but it could've been a lot funnier and more often than not took very cheap shots.Now, I'm getting a little bit tired of these gross-out comedies that pollute modern cinema by the second, but I'm not gonna regard any movie that doesn't contain a penis or fart joke in every scene as refreshingly enjoyable. This movie doesn't contain that many crude jokes, but it uses other cheap methods to get laughs.  For example, heavy-handed racial stereotypes.Unless you're extremely sensitive to racial humor, you shouldn't be offended by any of the gags in the film.  That's not the problem I had--I didn't find the jokes offensive.  It's the way the jokes are handled--they're extremely forced!  When Neil Patrick Harris struts into a room full of black people and says, It looks a Source Award in here, you can just imagine a black man scribbling that line down on a cocktail napkin and giggling to himself. That's my point--most of the dialogue seems more written than said.  The average sitcom seems to have the same problem.  When you hear a line of dialogue that you can just picture on the script, it's either a bad joke or a mediocre joke.  That's why in my Screenwriting class, we learn that if you write a piece of dialogue that you adore so much and simply leaps from the page...delete it!  And I hang around with a lot of black people, so some of the stereotypes were just too broad for their own good.  Like mayonaisse--Who the hell coined the stereotype that black people don't eat mayonaisse?  Every joke must be based on an element of truth.  However, it is a common stereotype that blacks love to eat fried chicken and drink malt liquor.  So that mock commercial where Billy Dee Williams was advertising his new fried chicken shack, where you get a free 40 oz. with every meal made me chuckle.  Besides, some of the racial humor has been done to death, but apparently the writers and director lost touch of that.  When Richard Pryor did stand-up acts, comparing white people and black people, that was funny!  It's not funny anymore!  Another flaw in the humor is its ignorance of time.  I forgot which character said it, but when whoever commented on Undercover Brother as Macy Gray with pork chops that may be funny now, but who's gonna laugh at that 2 or 3 years from now?  That's why pop culture is not a great target for humor.  And of course, there are some jokes that are just plain stupid.  There's one scene where Neil Patrick gets furious and, for no apparent reason, starts ripping out people's hearts and intestines.Now, I went to see this movie with a group of friends who were laughing their heads off throughout.  And I think if I weren't with them, I would only receive a few chuckles.  But the laughter was contagious, and I laughed too.  But there were some jokes that made them laugh hysterically that simply made me roll my eyes at them.  For example, in one scene Eddie Griffin is beating the crap out of a guy, and they shoot him from the waist up as cheesy sound f/x make him sound like he's snapping the guy's neck with his foot.  We then find out that he's crushing a bag of Lay's potato chips. How did they get a kick out of that?  Who the hell knows?Eddie Griffin is a decent comic, and is decent in the lead role, but seeing Dave Chapelle steal the spotlight in the supporting role, I wish Dave could've been the lead.  His manic energy would've fared better with audiences.  Denise Richards is incredibly hot and has an incredibly hot catfight/shower scene, where she's wearing tight clothing and gets soaking wet.  Need I say more?  It's nifty how they used her for the marketing campaign--if you see any of the posters, Eddie Griffin is in the background while Denise is in the foreground, flaunting her voluptuous curves.  Chris Kattan has yet again proved that he's better off sticking to supporting roles, his first time being Monkeybone.  He has some of the funniest scenes in the movie, and I was so much more glad to see him ham it up in a small role than in a lead role like in Corky Romano.I also liked the hip 70's soundtrack.  Basically, this film is worthy of a few cheap laughs, but it needs a maximum dose of wit.My score  5 (out of 10)      "},{"Title":"Another hilarious comedy movie!","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Undercover Brother Starring Eddie Griffin, Denise Richards, Dave Chappelle, Aunjanue Ellis, Neil Patrick Harris, Chris Kattan, Chi McBride, Robert Trumbull and Gary Anthony Williams Rated PG-13 for Language, Sexual Humor, Drug Content and Violence Genre Action/ComedyStar Rating ****1/2 out of 5 Undercover Brother is this silly Action/Comedy movie that is sort of like Austin Powers but yet different. Undercover Brother (Eddie Griffin) is a secret agent in the Brotherhood an all black secret agent service that levels the playing field against the all white establishment. Partnered with the sassy, stunning Sistah Girl (Aunjanue Ellis), our hero must first undergo the ultimate attitude adjustment and trade in his 'fro and platforms for tennis sweaters and penny loafers. Once the transformation is complete, he's ready to take on the evil perpetrators of Operation Whitewash--Mr Feather (Chris Kattan), Penelope Snow aka White She Devil (Denise Richards) and The Man (Robert Trumbull)! Another hilarious comedian in this movie is Dave Chappelle who also makes this movie funny besides Eddie Griffin. This movie also references a lot of other movies and TV-shows. I wonder if there will ever be a sequel to this movie? That would be hilarious if they did do a sequel! BOTTOM LINE FLAT OUT FUNNY! "},{"Title":"Fun satire","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. is a secret organization battling The Man. While trying to steal bank records, they are interrupted by Robin Hood wannabe Undercover Brother (Eddie Griffin) who is erasing mortgage records. Gen. Warren Boutwell (Billy Dee Williams) is expected to run for President as the favorite to win. However, the Man and boot-licking Mr. Feather (Chris Kattan) use mind control to make him open a fried chicken chain instead. They intend to use him in Operation White Wash. Sistah Girl (Aunjanue Ellis) recruits Undercover Brother into the organization where he meets Conspiracy Brother (Dave Chappelle), The Chief (Chi McBride), Smart Brother (Gary Anthony Williams) and affirmative action intern Lance (Neil Patrick Harris). The Man sends White She Devil (Denise Richards) in to take care of Undercover Brother.It's a non-stop biting satire of 70s blaxploitation films taking on modern racial relationship. It is hilarious. The characters are fun. Comedy is subjective and racial comedy is especially subjective. All I can say is that I found it funny even after a few viewing which is rare. It is just fun. "},{"Title":"ENJOYABLE MOVIE","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has many laughs and was very entertaining.  There were plenty of scenes that worked but equally just as many that did not.  The supporting cast worked well and saved Eddie Griffin on many scenes.  David Chappelle was once again hilarious, its definatly time for him to get his feature roll as a lead.  Eddie Griffin did a fine job but I still believe stand up comedy is where he needs to put his stock into.  What I fear most about this picture is one or more really bad sequels.  Austin Power sequels worked well, but I just dont think Brother has the laughs to pull off the same success.  I left the theater happy, but both my wife and I agreed we thought it would be funnier.   "}{"Title":"It was funny, but technically speaking...","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw the film recently in LA.  Sure, it was good for laughs but some technical aspects of the film were distracting.  I'm not sure what was wrong, but the boom microphone got into the picture (the frame) quite often - it takes you out of the film mentally and starts making you think of ultra low-budget horror films where the filmmaker doesn't give a care about the technical quality of the film.  Toward the end of the movie a few scenes had the top of the image cut off because the matte box on the camera was in frame during shooting.  The projectionist didn't have the film sized properly for the screen, so perhaps you won't see these distractions at your theater.  Otherwise, to quote Undercover Brother, it was Solid.  "},{"Title":"In the words of Undercover Brother...SOLID!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The film was greatly entertaining.  A great parody of some of the 70's black-ploitation films.  The movie was very smart and the racial in-jokes were hilarious.  If nothing else, you have to go see Doogie Houser as the white intern for the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D.  In the words of Undercover Brother...SOLID! "},{"Title":"70's fair with a soulful flair","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie takes its cues and jokes from 70's movies and TV shows. Its 70's fair with a soulful flair. Eddie Griffin is excellent as Undercover Brother.Chi Mcbride is great as the aging angry Chief. David Chappell is crazy as Conspiracy Brother.Aunjanue Ellis as Sistah Girl,Gary Anthony Williams as Smart Brother and Neil Patrick Harris as Lance round out an excellent ensemble cast as the members of The Brotherhood. Chris Kattan gives his usual over-the-top performance as the sinister Mr. Feather, and Denise Richards is super-hot and sexy as Penelope Snow,the White She-Devil. I was looking forward to ths movie and found it thoroughly enjoyable. Anyone who likes spy movies should find this spoof of the genre enjoyable. If ya' can't laugh at this one, you ain't got no business havin' a mouth! 2 afro pic fists in the air for Undercover Brother! "},{"Title":"GREAT","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  THIS MOVIE WAS SO FUNNY! me and my friend phil went to see this movie and we have been telling all of our friends to see it! CHIS KATTAN IS SO FUNNY! I WAS LAUGHING THE WHOLE TIME! one guy i know was surprised that i liked the movie becuz of all the white people jokes and blonde jokes that were thrown in but i really did like this movie. IF UR LOOKING OR A GREAT LAUGH I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE. "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE!!!!!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  ***SPOILERS***First off, i've been following the progress of this movie for half a year now and it was everything I expected and more!! Perfect score!10-movie 10-soundtrack (The goldies but oldies!)The movie starts off with the introduction of Undercover Brother and how he joins the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D.  During this time we get to meet the members of the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. and the mission at hand.  From this point on it's almost non-stop laughter and filled with both hi-brow (mostly the jokes while Undercover Brother is Anton Jackson) and low-brow comedy (the golf cart chase!).  So I see no reason why no one wouldnt like it.One of the high points of the movie is the depth of the characters and how well they stay true to their character.  Undercover Brother seeming to have a cool ego about himself, the hilarious antics of Conspiracy Brother, The Chiefs temper, Smart Brothers... heh lets face it that guys inventions are just plain sweet!, Sistah Girls tough attitude, White She Devil the black mans kryptonite, Lance the white member of the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D,Mr. Feathers ahem struggle to stay white (allot of people said he was annoying but he's by far one of the greatest aspects of the film in my opinion, I was crying when he started to dance to rap music in his office and I thought it was cool how he gave what seemed to be a smile before the final blow from Undercover Brother during the fight scene (before he was on The Mans chopper)very sexy... um to bad he wont be in the sequel), and The Man who wants to stop black influence and yet at the death of Mr. Feather says the funniest thing in the whole movie!!!!Like everyone else says its SOLID. (Stay after the movie is over and during the credits theres a cool scene with Undercover Brother going through the car wash!) "},{"Title":"Funky Fun","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I haven't laughed this hard since I saw Super Troopers. This movie is goofy without being juvenile or stupid. I laughed through almost every scene. It poked fun at stereotypes and other race-related issues. All of the actors put in great performances. I was especially happy to see David Chappelle in the role of Conspiracy Brother. Besides the whole retro Black Power theme going on, what I liked best about the movie was that it made fun of white people, without being offensive or negative. I left the movie wishing I was less white. I urge everyone looking for some funky fun to go out and see it NOW. It would be a shame if this movie got lost in the summer blockbuster shuffle. And last but not least, the sound track was SOLID.  "},{"Title":"Greatest Gift Across the Races Of All Time!!!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  'Undercover Brother' is not only a masterly crafted boobfest, an action movie, a comedy, a social commentary piece, a parody of all good/bad movies. but the funniest movie of the year, if not of all time.'Austin Powers' is old news, and so much less witty.  This movie makes you laugh on so many levels, tears will be flowing.  Cast is sexy and brilliant, to say the least. If you don't see it, there can be no sequel, so I will be more depressed than I have ever been, but I will share the inside jokes with my friend and his dad who I saw it with.  Sorry if you're a moron and cannot bring yourself--or let yourself--worship this movie. On a more insightful note, this movie pokes fun at blacks and whites in a non-offensive way that brings both of us together with laughter.  Unlike Spike Lee's films, which just p*** people off, Malcolm D. has a better idea Make a movie all people will love, and make it entertaining. Cuz 'Undercover Brother' is S-O-L-I-D.  "},{"Title":"Box office","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I already wrote my comments for U.B. (Excellent). Just I wanna say that I was, ten minutes ago, reading the box office and I saw that Spider man has cashed more than 100 millions during the 1st w.e. and U.B. is in line to cash 10 millions during its 1st w.e.. This proportion should be totally inverted if moviegoers were a little beat smarter. "},{"Title":"Move over Austin Powers,here comes Secret Agent Brother Man","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Griffin exudes star-making comic bravura as a modern-day crime fighter/secret agent with Shaft attitude,Super Fly fashion sense along with Black Belt Jones killer moves. This was infectiously funny by all means,and it was a grand sent-up of those blaxploitation flicks of the 1970's,even though the film runs under 90 minutes so you'll getting your money's worth at the cimema. This movie is NO WAY compare to Austin Powers by any means,but it was a fresh and innovative approach to bring back some wildly comedic humor while at the same time keeping it funky and to the bone. Picture this as the black version of Get Smart,but with S-O-U-L! Dave Chappelle,as a brother with terminal Caucasian-phobia steals the show along with the Chi McBride(of TV's Boston Public)as the chief. Kudos to director Malcolm D. Lee for keeping it moving and keeping it real. Can you dig it? "},{"Title":"Solid!","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I went to go see this movie because everytime I saw the trailer it made me laugh. I have to admit, this has proven to not be a very good way to judge movies, especially comedies. Finally, I was proven wrong.This movie was absolutely hysterical. I haven't laughed so hard since.....probably the original Ace Ventura. Seriously, I was laughing out loud in the theater at least once every scene from start to finish. There's just so many racial stereotypes (He has an orange soda dispenser in his car!! He throws afro pics at his enemys!!! Denise Richards is White She-Devil!!!! Classic.) and 70's blaxploitation references that you can't help but laugh.Chris Kattan is a little flat as the bad guy, but it's alright. Eddie Griffin, Dave Chappel, and the amazinglygorgeousunbelivablyhot Denise Richards make up for it. SEE THIS MOVIE!!!!!! 10/10 "}{"Title":"Too Overly Rehersed.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A funny Shaft meets Mission Impossible. A funny send up of 70's blackexplotion mixed with spy movies. Eddie Griffin was funny has the main character. But most the cast was utterly annoying, starting with Dave Chappelle, who just runs his mouth till somebody wants to tell him shut up. And Denise Richards who has the making of a talented actress, but continues to play characters with less words and less thought. Chris Kattan does alright as Mr. Feather, but looks to wide awake like he drank too much coffee. Neil Patrick Harris was pretty funny has Lance, the intern that the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. hired for there silly reasons. The jokes were over done, some were very funny, others were just very silly. I hope if they make a sequel, it will be better. "},{"Title":"This movie's got soul....","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"      A stern warning should be given to all movie-goers before screening &#145;Undercover Brother'; that warning is to simply suspend disbelief and have a good time. Forget about analyzing the films for it's' morale, discount any such motives to extract meaning and afterthought. The reason you might ask is because there are none. If these simple rules are followed, then the viewer will have had a great time with this very funny film.      Eddie Griffin (Double Take, The New Guy) has graced our screens many times in the past; unfortunately, these roles have been secondary characters with little or no substance to them. In this instance, Griffin gets the due recognition he deserves. He portrays Anton Jackson, a slick, smooth talking, &#145;stuck in the 70's' kind of guy who just so happens to be the world's greatest spy. In terms of plot, you can derive your own conclusions about the wafer-thin plot that has many holes and causes for disequilibrium on more than one occasion.       Despite that detriment, the film is neatly tucked into three acts which at only 91 minutes in duration, causes for a sour second act that is quite tedious and unfunny. The film is basically linked from one scene to another as there are no correlations to previous scenes. Each scene builds upon the next resulting in a quick film that straggles only when attempting to build up a weak climactic battle. Yet, we know what we are in for when we screen a film of this capacity. We are simply in attendance for the laughs and that is what we get. A hilarious climax ensues pitting villainous Mr. Feather (the innocuous and misplaced Chris Kattan) against our soulful Undercover Brother in a serenading of Michael Jackson's &#145;Just Beat it' before the final showdown.       The script has an exaggerated yet interesting premise in which an unidentified figurehead attempts at ridding the world out of the African-American train of thought. Rap Music, funky bell bottoms and afro hair styles are all part of an evil scheme that uses the unfortunate case of racial bigotry at the foreground of this pleasant film.      Race does play a vital role in the jokes of the film as there is a no holds-barred attitude from both racial perspectives as mayonnaise, corduroy pants and even the television show &#145;Frasier' are at the core of some very funny jokes. That being said, the film is heavily flawed and one cannot help but draw comparisons to the &#145;Austin Powers' films. Is this film as witty and clever? Definitely not; but it is justified to say that &#145;Undercover Brother' can stand on its' own as an innocent and singular piece of film that is not ashamed of poking fun at the &#145;free-wheelin', good natured spirit of the 70's. And for that in itself, it must be condoned.       Director Malcolm D. Lee vehemently infuses some soulful zest into his film in the implementation of some great 70's tunes along with some funky sequences of the said adjective. Furthermore, what can be admired is the apparent attempt at spoofing the &#145;blax-ploitation' films of the past. While there were not many references to past iconic fads, when there was that one correlation &#150; it worked.       One such example is our hero's tormented obsession with the Bruce Lee film,' Enter the Dragon'. Seemingly enough, that film seemed to have influenced the direction and style of the many action/adventure sequences presented in this film. From the in your face comedic martial arts sequences, to the wide shot car chase, to the slanted angle character shots, this whole film is an amalgamation of  past fads and ideologies bottled up in a harmless comedy.       This film is quite the gem in its' own little way, yet part of the film's chemistry is the cast. The underrated and unappreciated Dave Chappelle (Half-Baked) is absolutely terrific as the titled Conspiracy Brother. He is part of the team Undercover Brother works for and along for the ride are Chi McBride, Denise Richards and even Billy Dee Williams makes the cast. But the greatest surprise is the casting of Doogie Howser himself. Just as we thought he faded out of the limelight until another &#145;Starship Troopers' came along, Neil Patrick Harris plays Lance, the only original member of the all black secret team; the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. In case you are wondering what these initials stand for, do not bother. Not even the film makes an attempt at explaining it.      At this point in time, it is not an understatement to identify &#145;Austin Powers' as the comedic icon of the 60's, and as soon as &#145;Undercover Brother' hits DVD and develops a cult following, so will it replace an iconic figure and be the pedestal of the 70's. This film is the type of film to grow on people. Similar to when &#145;Austin Powers' was first released, the original film hardly made an unimpressive 33$ Million. It wasn't until it developed a following on video that the second was rushed and released and made more than 4 times the original amount.       Therefore, those searching for a developed, coherent and exuberantly produced film are encouraged to look elsewhere.  If it is simply a funny film with underdeveloped characters, reality defying sequences and a wafer thin script then you found it. This film will satiate your desire for a fanciful laugh and will have you walking away uttering contagious catch lines as &#145;Solid' and &#145;You've got Soul'. One aspect that is definitely solid in this film, despite the weak second act &#150; are the laughs.Giancarlo's Rating **1/2  "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie on a screening pass last night. It was a funny, good natured flick.  Even though I am a fan of Eddie Griffin's previous work like his stand-up comedy, and Eddie & Malcolm tv show, I felt that his performance was a little on the weak side.  The actor that really seemed to shine through was Dave Chappelle.  His comedic delivery, and especially his facial expressions seemed to garner more laughs from the crowd than Eddie Griffin did.  Not to say that Eddie didn't have his moments too.  He was his funniest when he became white while working undercover.  If I was paying to see this movie, I would have preferred to see it at a drive-in, or wait until it comes out on video.  The campiness & fun of this movie just seems to be best suited for the drive-ins.  All and all, if you are looking for some light entertainment that will make you laugh, Undercover Brother is a great choice.  "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure.","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Undercover Brother is a hit or miss comedy. With a great cast and many laughs. The problem with it is that it has so much black humor, and I don't find black humor funny. Though I do find this film funny at most times, I think it still has too much black humor. The cast includes Eddie Griffith(The Deuce Bigalow films) Chris Kattan(A night at the Roxbury, SNL) Denise Richards(Wild things, The Shoes episode of Seinfeld) Chi Mcbride(Boston Public, Waiting) Dave Chapelle(You know who Dave Chapelle is) Undercover Brother is a funny spoof. I wish it lightened up a bit on the black humor. I can't exactly complain because I knew there was going to be a lot of it. Though Undercover Brother is stupid at times, I still recommend it because it's a pretty funny film. Though it's a hit or miss comedy, it's still pretty funny. "},{"Title":"Not a mean bone in its body","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This is an amazingly good-natured send-up of black and white stereotypes as exemplified in blacksploitation movies of the 70's. Great job on costumes for Undercover Brother in that sense. SOLID supporting cast, especially Dave Chappelle, who is absolutely ass-kicking as Conspiracy Brother. Chi McBride and Neil Patrick Harris are outstanding as well. The ONLY bad spot for me is Chris Kattan, whose over-the-top hysterics are not in keeping with the Shaft-cool vibe of the rest of the film. He is desperately unfunny. But the rest of the cast pretty much makes up for him. Great soundtrack too. "},{"Title":"Fun, but falls a little short","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Comedy about a blaxploitation-type hero (Eddie Griffin) joining an underground association of black people who are trying to protect their race from its arch enemy, The Man. It's not bad. It's quite uneven. But when it's funny, it's really funny. The actors are all good, with particularly funny performances by Dave Chapelle, Neal Patrick `Doogie Howser' Harris, Chi McBride (the principal of the school on the Fox show Boston Public), and Chris Kattan. It's rare for Chris Kattan to be funny, and this might be his best performance. He plays the lead henchman of The Man, and he's getting worried about the rise of black culture in his own mind. The film sets up a sequel, and I could easily see a second Undercover Brother succeeding where the first failed. Just a few more jokes, and they'll have it. This movie is well worth catching if you can rent it cheap or catch it on a cable channel. If you subtract the credits, it only runs for 79 minutes. "},{"Title":"Should be better known - maybe Mr Big is keeping a Brother down after all.","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" In the same dumb but harmless vein of the SNL films (Roxbury, Ladies Man etc) comes a film based upon an online cartoon&#x85; and if that fact alone don't get the blood pumping nothing will.Like The Ladies Man if the first two minutes of Undercover Brother don't elicit a grin then it's a pretty grim 80 minutes ahead, as it's largely the same from there.Undercover Brother himself (Eddie Griffin) is a 70s throwback, kung-fu film watching, funk listening, jive talking chicken eating, black chick bonin', caddie driving orange soda luving Brother who doesn't seem to grasp the basics of a new millennium. A disco throwback with an insatiable thirst for justice and fairness to all things pro-black. He is also funny as sh*t. If you get this far in the film and don't like him press eject cause it only gets worse.Apparently Black culture is in grave danger of being homogenised by The (white) Man. This is apparently a tragedy as it will cost an entire culture its identity and basically its coolness. I wonder if they will still be allowed to do porn or play in the NBA?Enter the BROTHERHOOD, which stands for something I can't remember but is probably vaguely clever and totally unnecessary. A group of predominantly (see further down) black staff who seek to thwart The Man's efforts and preserve the black experience for generations to come. The BROTHERHOOD are staffed by total stereotypes, but at least they acknowledge as much in the naming of most characters&#x85;* The Chief* Smart Brother.* Conspiracy Brother* Sistah-Girl&#x85;And Lance, the token affirmative action white guy played by Neil Patrick Harris. (Who would have thought that 2 of the better comedies with a predominantly non-white cast would have featured Doogie himself?) For some reason this cracks me up even though it also panders to every sarcastic stereotype of white guys going around. (Can't dance, not cool, tone deaf etc.)Our plot revolves around The Man trying to spread a white-washing drug through the black community using fried chicken laced with a mind altering drug, and fronted by a formerly admired black General with aspirations to politics who has apparently sold out, but is really himself under the influence of the drug and powerless to resist.The BROTHERHOOD conscript Undercover Brother to help stop The Man's plan, but first he must go through white-thinking training. Needless to say the montage shown before him has some of the more embarrassing atrocities ever committed by the white race. He must also learn to cope with mayonnaise, which we apparently all love for some reason.Sent into the heart of The Man's operations, UB must blend in by removing any trace of cool or blackness. The Man counters by unleashing White She-Devil (Denise Richards) as UB's ultimate temptation and foe.Once under her spell UB becomes temporarily lost to the BROTHERHOOD, and it is up to Sistah-Girl to go and save him. A catfight between She-Devil and Sistah-Girl in front of Undercover Brother and a couple of white henchmen remains a hilarious highlight as it gets more and more ludicrous, culminating in the both half dressed and slurping it up in the shower.I laughed a lot in this film. I a lot of comedy recently and this was by far the funniest and offered the most frequent laughs.There are jokes about having a black President - which show that they couldn't see into the future - a great slo-mo car chase featuring golf buggies and enough good natured Oh well black people do this and white people do that jokes that made me wish you could get away with more political incorrectness when it comes to race these days. (But you can't.) On top of this Conspiracy Brother is played by Dave Chappelle before he became mega-famous for Chappelle's Show and he provides many bonus laughs.The finale moves from a James Brown concert and ends at The Man's island lair, where UB and The Man's 2IC Mr Feather have the final showdown and Lance finally unleashes his fury. (Mr Feather (Chris Kattan) is a 50/50 proposition, half funny and half cringeworthy, mostly due to his attempts to speak black for comedy's sake.)Of course being a movie with a 70s throwback as the main attraction the music is funk-tastic and includes some of the better known hits from that decade, as well as nifty background tunes.The whole thing seemed to set up a sequel that never came, which is a shame, because aside from a few clumsy missteps Undercover Brother is without doubt the most chuckle-worthy of the comedies I have seen thus far.Final Rating &#x96; 8 / 10. The only drawback of Undercover Brother is the absence of one huge laugh. There are dozens of funny bits and chuckles galore but no eye-watering, cheek hurter.That aside this is still very good stuff and underrated. Maybe the White Man is keeping a Brother down after all! "},{"Title":"Defied expectations, but fell victim to its genre.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover Brother wasn't really a movie I was excited about. I probably would have ignored it completely, but my dad wanted to take my brother and I and it promised at least a little entertainment value. To my pleasant surprise, I found myself laughing out loud during several scenes!Conspiracy Brother, in particular, was just hilarious. Dave Chappelle turned in a suitably hyperactive performance and set up some of the best gags in the film. Neil Patrick Harris surprised me as Lance. As the one white boy in the BROTHERHOOD (affirmative action), he served as the springboard for a couple of fairly humorous gags. The racially-oriented humor, far from being degrading and unfunny as I had expected, actually worked both comedically and maybe even as a vent for racial tensions. The running mayonnaise joke had me smiling all throughout, as I hate the gloppy stuff, too. I guess I'm all a little black in the tastebuds.But when Undercover Brother strayed away from it's race-humour roots, it fell very, very flat. The golf cart chase was somewhat amusing, but it's been done in a dozen Leslie Nielsen movies. The call-'em-what-they-are naming scheme worked as a cheap means of speeding the pace by avoiding set up for the characters' jokes, but as a joke themselves they were far too predictable and trite to be funny. Undercover Brother's transition from Soulful Spy to Undercover Urkle happened way too fast to work. Chris Kattan's usually-amusing overacted performance was too overacted to be funny this time, although his outbursts of blackness were.In short, Undercover Brother failed when it tried to be a spoof comedy instead of a fresh race comedy. As a fresh race comedy, though, it succeeds were most neo-blaxploitation comedies fail miserably. Besides, a movie with a score by Stan Clarke and an extended cameo by James Brown can't be ALL bad. "},{"Title":"Better than the previews make it look","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Even though I didn't think the trailers or TV spots or very good, I saw this movie anyway and found it to be pretty funny. Sure, it's incredibly stupid and some of the jokes don't really work that well, but it was still an enjoyable flick. Eddie Griffin was hysterical just as he is in all of his other movies and the sound track is excellent. Overall, it's not a bad way too kill 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"Undercover Brother * *1/2","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover Brother reminded me of the Austin Powers films which I've seen bits and pieces of and Zoolander.It's not really a bad film and it's not also a good one either.This is one of those films that had me wanting to laugh and wanting me tearing the hair off my scalp because of all the songs from the 1970s and 1980s that were used in the film.Eddie griffin was funny in some scenes and the film provide certain humorous qualities.But the film was too silly and corny for me to really enjoy. "}{"Title":"Spoof Took The Safe Way Out","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This was a somewhat entertaining spoof of the 1970s blaxplotation films. Here we have the big afro-haired hero Eddie Griffith fighting against The Man. Wow, it seems like only yesterday we used and heard all this '60s and '70s jargon.The film takes potshots as both white and black stereotypes, leaning more, of course, against the whites because that's a safe road for Liberal filmmakers to take. To the people who make movies, that beats being neutral or impartial, which one would think is the best way to treat people.There are some funny moments and some funny characters but it's a little too politically-correct and too stupid to see more than once. "},{"Title":"Should be funnier...","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  A parody of the spy genre in general and blaxploitation movies specifically, Undercover Brother should have been way funnier that it actually is. I've come to expect a lot from Eddie Griffin, I think he's very amusing in an over-the-top-I-have-no-fear kind of way, although in this movie despite some flashes of inspiration he falls kind of flat. His rougher funnier edges have been smoothed, when the director Malcolm D. Lee (Spike's cousin) should have been trying to push the limits of outrageousness. There are some nice moments, but save your 13.50 at the box office, this one is definitely a rental.  "},{"Title":"Silly","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie recently expecting the worst and i was right. This is supposed to be a comedy but i found it more silly than funny. The dialogue is absolute babble and the acting is over-the top atrocious at times. Talents like Denise Richards and David Chappelle are wasted here. my rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"It was pretty funny but just one thing....","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Chris Kattan is a comedian. And he was pretty funny in the movie. But I thought they could have made this movie a larger hit if they had stepped aside and let him do the thing that he is famous for. Making people laugh. He did make his character very funny but, heck he has a big talent as a comedian and an actor. He could have made the movie so funny that you choke to death on your popcorn! He's an amazing actor and comedian. I think he's so under appreciated these days. I hope he never gives up on his career. So basically I'm saying(for the 3rd time) that if the director and other crew members had let him show off his SNL stripes then this movie would have been a large hit! If Chris is reading this right now( which I'm pretty sure he is not) I just want him to know I'm behind him. 100% of the way. P.S., I felt that the movie was taking sides a little bit too much. But it was still pretty funny.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst ever","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  After 45 minutes I couldnt watch it anymore. The reason I wanted to see it was Denise Rrrrrichards, but I didnt see much of her. Anyways, the movie is supposed to be a comedy of some sort, but laughing wasnt part of it. If this is black humor the man  is right! Conclusion If you want to see Denise , watch Wild Things, and just dont see Undercover Brother..ever!  "},{"Title":"Car wash for 2002","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  You had to be here for the 70's to appreciate this movie.  It would have been great along side car wash and other films like these.  I am not sure why you would want to make a 70's type movie except for the nostaglia effect and why any thing from back then is IN now  but it was a funny at times with subtle jokes older people might get better than most.  the malt liquor one was kind of sneaky.  It was good for what I used it for something to watch and listen to those old fav's.  As far as a review like other folks have said it may reinforce the stereotypes of that era but when you go back to those times that is what is going to happen.  Enjoy it for what it is worth and go on. "},{"Title":"...without a doubt one of the worst films of 2002 ","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is without a doubt one of the worst films of 2002. This is a sloppy film about an undercover agent trying to help a black man's presidential campaigne. Definatly one of his worst comedies, Griffin was much better in Double Take (2001). I recommend avoiding this horrible film.* of **** stars. "},{"Title":"No where near as funny as I thought it would be","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I was expecting a lot of laughs from the trailers I saw of this movie.  It seemed like the plot would be really funny. Eddie Griffin plays Undercover Brother who joins the Brotherhood and must stop the Man from controlling the minds of black people by putting a secret drug in the General's Fried Chicken.  But, I only laughed once, and that was toward the end when Undercover Brother has a dance off against Mr. Feather to Michael Jackson's Beat It.  Other than that, the jokes fell really flat and it just wasn't funny.  Even Denise Richards' character, White She Devil, didn't seem to funny.  The whole idea sounds good, but I guess it was lame writers that made this one a turkey.FINAL VERDICT  I don't recommend this one.  Not enough laughs for a comedy. "},{"Title":"Oh my god, this blows..","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I know this is a comedy and you're not supposed to take it seriously...however, with that said - do not watch this movie, cause it is a down right waste of time. The acting stinks, it's cliche filled to a point where it isn't even remotely funny anylonger and...well... I just called it a comedy, but in reality it's a tragedy - a tragedy that some people can actually look themselves in the mirror after having made this... "},{"Title":"Dave Chappelle carries the film","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This film makes fun of both black and white stereotypes, and is also deceptively subtle in some of its humor. Has to many lapses, however, to keep viewer's attention. Dave Chappelle steals every scene from Eddie Griffin. Chris Kattan plays White Man Who Amusingly Talks With Slang, and does it without being totally annoying.  "}{"Title":"NutraSweet...","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  The movie, by no means, is a good movie. If you thought The Pest was funny, you would like this. If you are offended by socially acceptable racism against whites, then you would be offended by this movie. It was sorta funny -- Kinda funny -- It was LIKE funny. More like a funny substitute.Patrick "},{"Title":"Amusing for one viewing, but otherwise vapid and pointless","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This is a basically good hearted comedy. It is pleasant, and entertaining enough for one viewing. Maybe if one is drunk, then a second viewing a few months later might be tolerated, especially if one is drunk with a group of drunken friends.Undercover Brother is not a great movie, though, and it will never attain classic status, primarily because it satirizes something that doesn't really exist. Good satire, and enduring spoofs all have something in common--- they tease out weaknesses and foibles that powerful people, or powerful social institutions, have tried to hide. As the late, great Eudora Welty said, good satire is a tool for the weak (and that's most of us) to attack the powerful. Undercover B. merely recalls an odd decade--- the 1970s--- and merely extends a few clever sketch comedy bits into a feature length movie. Having a talented cast and a 100-minute running time do not ipso facto make the product a proper movie. I suspect that the reason the movie has not been a particular box office nor critical success, in spite of its amusing gags, is that most people do not resonate with it on any kind of deep level. It would be like creating a satire that teases Aunt Mildred's heavy drinking and alcoholic behavior and mishaps, when in reality she doesn't even drink at all. The gags might make us chuckle for a few minutes, but any real impact or lasting appreciation is absent.Same here with this movie. Similarly to Spike Lee's failed Bamboozled, which turned its clumsy social comment around a non-existent societal prejudice, Undercover Brother also must rely heavily on a white society's rampant preoccupation and derogation of certain races. Because such a condition simply doesn't exist as a widespread characteristic of today's society, the movie has nothing to say. Except, of course, as a pretty good send-up of the 1970s. "},{"Title":"A Minstrel Show","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I thought Undercover Brother was an extremely offensive, racist film; this movie drew on exaggerated stereotypes to get a laugh. It's an example of a modern day minstrel show. Do you think this movie was really marketed to make black people laugh? or to make white people laugh at black people? Films like these only add to deep-rooted racism, promoting stereotyping, and letting you laugh at your own conception of African Americans. Why should a black comedy have to be about exploiting black stereotypes to create a laugh? "},{"Title":"He tries so hard to be Austin Powers it hurts!!!!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movies tried so hard to be Austin Powers on a darker version but it stayed a bad wannabe,I liked Chris Kattan who was o.k..as good as he is for free on SNL and well, the rest of the guys did o.k, this doogie howser guy looks like he really need the job and will take whatever role offered, i was shocked not to find jeanine garofalo on this film cause she suffers from the same gimme any role you have actress. Sad story..undercover ripoff and sad story. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I do not think that this movie lived up to its expectations. Don't get me wrong, this movie did have its funny parts.   The jokes were funny at first but became drawn out and pointless after five minutes. Basically it was too much.  "},{"Title":"this movie sucked","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie really sucked. I saw the previews for it and thought it would be really funny, but it wasn't. There was no story line and the acting really sucked. I don't recommend anyone to waste their money.RATING 2/10 I give it a 2 just because Chris Kattan was in it, and I love him! "},{"Title":"Enh","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" So many comedies seem to me like overblown SNL or MadTV skits. They just don't feel very cinematic to me. UNDERCOVER BROTHER feels like that -- there's nothing here you couldn't find on Dave Chappelle's show on Comedy Central, albeit here they threw more money at it. A very pleasant but minor time-waster, this is the standard celebrate/make fun of blaxpoitation clichés and race relations kind of thing. Nothing wrong with it, it was worth the two bucks I spent on the used video I picked up, but nothing special, either.I thought the best people in it, actually, were the white sidekicks. Denise Richards can't act and should never try, but she's undeniably very hot and if there's one person to play White She-Devil, it's her. Neal Patrick Harris plays a good clichéd whitebread type. Surprisingly, Chris Kattan's pretty good, too. I generally can't stand the guy, think he's the definition of over-the-top mugging, and there's a little bit of it here, but in something this broad his schtik makes more sense. Although it's not to his credit that he even manages to go over the top here.The other interesting thing is that director Lee is good with action sequences, of all things. The motorcycle chase and especially the final battle is excitingly shot and edited together. I wasn't expecting that. Someone should give Lee a hack at an action movie let's see what he can do with it.I feel sorry for movie critics, having to make a word count on something like this. The real reaction is enh . How do write five hundred words on enh ? "},{"Title":"Not bad for channel flipping on a late Saturday night.","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Predictable plot centered around the need to get the setup for old jokes. The funniest parts where the writers trying to 'force' the setup for each joke.  A great lighthearted followup to a 'Bad Company' double feature when your mind is tired. "},{"Title":"I really want to know what everyone liked about this movie.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this movie, expecting a dumb, yet funny movie. I noticed that it got very good reviews from critics, which isnt always good for a comedy. Sure, this movie had its moments, most of them were scenes that looks like something from Austin Powers(GOLDMEMBER WILL RULE ALL). But, overall, this movie really had no laugh out loud comedy scenes, it isnt even that racy like everyone said it was. There are about 3 racial jokes in it, only one hits the mark(the mayo). If you want to see a good comedy that will keep you laughing for weeks, save your 7 dollars and look at the Crocodile Hunter trailer. Holy crap that movie is gonna be....pathetic. p.s.-if you dont heed my advice, the only constantly funny character is Conspiracy Brotha(Dave Chapelle), and the white intern is funny at the very end. "},{"Title":"Great Potential, Not-so-great Movie","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  From the moment I saw the preview, I had made a mental note to see Undercover Brother.  Being quite the fan of comedy movies (even slapstick and brainless ones), I had expected something of a Black comedy version of Ace Ventura Pet Detective, added with Chris Kattan's unique blend and some good one-liners.I was sorely disappointed.Unfortunately, this was one of those comedy movies in which the wittiest parts of the movie were all shown in the preview.  The plot had potential, but it was by no means exploited to that potential.  Borrowing from similar scenes from Scary Movie, Half-Baked, etc., the movie tried to attract each of their target audiences, without pleasing any.  The subplot with White She Devil began with great potential... but the subplot ended abruptly and ceased in its humor.  The Black comedy/Afro-centric plot also had potential, but I do believe the makers of the movie forgot a very important demographic fact  this movie was geared (or at least seemed to be geared) towards a teen audience... However, the African-American culture the plot was geared around was one of the 70s (as the movie itself pointed out.)  Thus, many of the jokes based upon this culture that were throughout the movie did not connect with their audience.  Furthermore, the Black figures the movie used were older in nature, and also did not connect.All in all, if you've seen the preview for this movie, you've seen it in its entirety.  This movie had the potential to be in the ranks of teen movies such as Scary Movie, American Pie, etc. because of what it was trying to do, but it quite unfortunately failed at doing it. "}{"Title":"Fried Chicken Jokes","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is wack, from beginning to end. When I wake up in the morning I usually lay there and think to myself what am I going to do today. Sometimes I think maybe I should just stay home and drink myself silly and pass out, or I think of ways to make money without doing much work. This movie is wack from beginning to end, I should have stayed home and drank myself silly but instead I wasted six dollars and almost two hours of my pathetic life watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Useless comedy that echoes Austin Powers....but not nearly as funny. 3/10","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  With the exception to the soul-filled soundtrack, Undercover Brother is about as hip as a Star Trek convention.  Few laughs exist in this wannabe Austin Powers comedy that's all too full of itself.  David Chappelle and Chris Kattan are just flat-out annoying.  The female leads clearly have no comedic talent, and they only exist in this tripe for arousal purposes (the main plus of the film).  Neil Patrick Harris seems to think he's funny just because he's in a film called Undercover Brother; and one note Eddie Griffin just can't carry the film.  Eddie's main resource for comedy seems to be looking into the camera and shifting his eye-brows in that oh-so-cool fashion.  The film reminds me of that kid in your High School who thought he was hip -- but just wasn't.Can you dig? "},{"Title":"uhh, very bad movie","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  OK, if you have nothing else to see and it is an afternoon you want to waste, here is the movie for you to see.  Or better yet see something else.  I saw a free screening for this film, and walked out feeling that they could have taken something from me.  If you want to se the film and be surprised at all please miss the trailer, close your eyes and shut your ears.  All but a few parts of the film that are funny are in the trailer.  If you have seen the trailer it is almost funny to see the film, and how there are clips frm the last 5 min of the film!  This movie so obviously wants to become Austin Powers.  It is like the little kid wanting to play with the big kids, well this time I hope the big kids don't give them a shot.  "},{"Title":"It's no Austin Powers","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" This movie was an attempt to copy the Austin Powers formula, but combine it with addressing other real issues in a fun and humorous manner. If you mind stupid humor, this does not match up to the more fluent Austin Powers (I haven't seen the 2nd or 3rd one, so I can't compare them to this movie.) In Austin Powers, even though some things were stupid, the humor was fresh, catchier, and the movie's plot just flowed more. Austin Powers kept it simple with good vs. evil. Undercover Brother addresses race, but the humor is misleading enough that one may easily think there is some racism involved. Little things like how they used the N word between two people- considering the issue this movie was tackling, it would've been good to have it shown between two different races as well. It is true that taking jokes too far could make the movie seem too cruel for its own good, but from a critic's eye, not as substantial or effective as a movie to stand on its own.Some of the humor in this movie is too random. It doesn't seem to relate the movie's plot itself. This is synonymous with totally random and unrelated clips placed in some Indian movies. It's more of an Indian trademark, and Undercover Brother does not make fun of this issue, but rather they are trying to embrace this characteristic if anything. Such as the business when there is a shower which just pops out of nowhere conveniently to make a funny scene. It is funny, but very random.A few humor comments to note The chicken provides the most funny parts of the movie. Take that Colonel Sanders!! Also, they should've had Neil Patrick Harris say White Castle instead of Taco Bell, that would've been a bit funnier, except that Undercover Brother was made before Harold and Kumar go to White Castle. "},{"Title":"Undercover Script.","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" Undercover Brother (2002) Dir Malcolm D. Lee / Cast Eddie Griffin, Chris Kattan, Denise Richards, Dave Chappelle, Neil Patrick Harris Satire that addresses the idea that many white people wish to act in the stereotypical black fashion while blacks cannot imitate the whites. This is best demonstrated when Eddie Griffin is seen in attire that is far from his usual self. Eddie Griffin plays an agent given the title name and he belongs to the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. They are fighting against a white organization known as The Man. He is searching for a brainwashing device that is interrogating black people. Funny concept reduced to Griffin's wardrobe and martial arts violence. Well directed by Malcolm D. Lee with eye catching visual elements obviously inspired by Austin Powers. Griffin seems to be having fun with the role however, it is faulted by his constant self awareness as if in on the jokes. Chris Kattan has fun as a villain struggling against influence. This renders his performance the best in the film. Denise Richards begins well and then is reduced to exploiting her sexuality. Dave Chappelle also appears in a cardboard role. Here was an idea that might have seeded had it a better screenplay but instead it becomes one big stupid charade much like Spy Hard was a few years prior. It addresses racial stereotypes while screenplay should have remained undercover. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Austin Powers meets black power.","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" There are those who believe&#x97;quite reasonably, in my opinion&#x97;that Undercover Brother, an African-American Austin Powers rip-off starring Eddie Griffin, promotes reverse racism by depicting whites as evil, uncool, and dedicated to oppressing the black race via a variety of underhand means. But that isn't what I found most objectionable about the film it was the lack of decent gags that really bothered me.Undercover Brother's extremely lazy comedy clearly strives to emulate Mike Meyers' wacky style, but the result is a series of desperately unfunny gags that made me cringe more than laugh; a shame, because the crazy world of a funky soul-brother obsessed with the 70s is surely a potential comedic goldmine, offering more than enough material for a couple of hours of genuinely laugh-out loud silliness.Or perhaps I just didn't find the film funny because I'm a nerdy and humourless honky with zero taste in almost everything. "},{"Title":"Not as funny as it wants to be","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  First, and this is unforgivable, you can see the boom microphones (several scenes with Denise Richards) and even some tracking cameras (check out some of the helicopter pad shots toward the end) in extended portions of this film.  Not in isolated shots, but in entire scenes.  I began looking for where the microphone should be - and there it would appear, edging into the frame!  No, it was not clear that this was in any way intentional as part of the spoof.  Instead, it appeared to be simply lame directing and cinematography and who knows what else.  If it was part of the spoof, they could have had a character hit it accidentally or something.  Somebody involved with the production needs to return to film school.Chris Kattan runs away with this film at every opportunity.  He is best as a supporting character, to play off other, more restrained performances (everyone is more restrained than him).  Denise Richards is good, though she could have used more screen time.  Eddie Griffin, though, looks too young and simply can not adequately carry off a Shaft type character at this point in his career.  Check out the real Shaft movies and compare.  Younger is definitely not always better in this type of role.  He looks like he is playing dress-up.  World-weariness was an essential part of the persona, not perkiness.The move has funny bits. It attempts to drain every last drop of humor it can out of every Black Power expression it can dredge up from the '70s that perhaps carried some punch then, but sure doesn't now.  The movie completely misfires at times, too - what is the character doing drinking a Big Gulp, anyway?  As if any such character would have been caught dead doing that.  The scenes where Griffin tries to act like Urkel or whatever also don't add anything to the movie.  The car chase scene was just pointless, I mean, if you are going to have a car chase, have a good one!  It looked like they travelled all of three blocks.There were occasional amusing commentaries on the different society African-Americans inhabit, but just how many times did they have to mention Sisqo, anyway?  There were not enough laughs, everything was way too obvious, and bad execution ruined bits that otherwise might have worked.  A good movie if you are in the mood for a simplistic spoof, perhaps, but nothing special. "},{"Title":"More old-school politics than you would think","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Just when the POOTIE TANGs and ALL ABOUT THE  BENJAMINSES seemed to suck the progressive marrow out of theskeleton of the neo-blaxploitation movie, this broad  comedy--Austin Powers with an Afro-Pick--from the unlikelyImagine Entertainment brings back a whiff of anti-The Mansentiment. It's pretty shocking when Undercover Brother (the not allthat funny Eddie Griffin) gets a brain-download of white culture--which turns out to be episodes of MAJOR DAD and gallons ofmayonnaise. But then by the end, the White Hottie (DeniseRichards) and the Doofy White Intern (Doogie Howser) get to beHonorary Down-with-the-Brown Kids too. Ah, the marketingdepartment! Before getting there, the movie, though only spottilyfunny, is always surprising, overtly political, and specked with goodperformances--even Billy Dee Williams, reprising Paul Winfield'svision of a sellout Colin Powell from MARS ATTACKS! "},{"Title":"Undercover Brother is garbage, racist and stupid","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Right now I am getting a good laugh at the idiot who called this awesome. Like Roger Ebert said, Undercover Brotheruses all the trasy stereotypical views on Blacks and Whites that many people would like to forget.The people who put together this film should be ashamed and embarrased themselves.Is that the white man's plan, to build a Kentucky Fried chicken place and let blacks become addicted to Junk Food?Yep these lame script dialogue can be yours if youre stupid enough to waste $7.50 on this movie.I got a special screening from a movie friend of mine, and I am glad too because this movie is utterly racist .A couple of laughs and sluts (Denise Richards) but thats about it. "},{"Title":"like Austin Powers, only with more bigotry","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  It's horrible, in my opinion, certain movies such as this always portray white people as horrible racist dorks.  You'd think that movies pointing out all the good things about one race, and all the stereotypical bad things about another race wouldn't ever be able to hit the screens.Horrid attempt at humor 0 out of 10BTW, I'm black. "}{"Title":"Absolute rubbish","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover Brother is a movie about a black guy with a 70s-funk-Robin-Hood complex, dedicated to truth, justice and the promulgation of African American welfare. After running in with an operation conducted by the Brotherhood to destroy the financial infrastructure of 'The Man' (a nefarious personality whose face is always cloaked in shadow in the movie, determined to return Caucasian-Negroid relations back to their state of the 1970s), Undercover Brother joins them, and uncovers a plot where 'The Man' averts an African-American general's announcement of candidacy for the White House, and then extends the development of a mind-control drug to attempt to once again take control of all blacks in America...and the world. The Brotherhood undertake to combat 'The Man's malevolent objectives. The Man is clearly not a desirable man, and neither are his aims very savoury. Murder, mind-control, betrayal and racism are all things that can be applied to this faceless figure. I obtained quite a few laughs. But the racist overtones discomforted me throughout the film, and I would give it 2.5/10. The guy who indulges in weed is a very irksome character, with his trash talk. Smart Brother, Sistah Girl and Undercover Brother are all quite admirable characters in their own way. It is also interesting to note the struggle that Mr. Feather, The Man's number one flunky, has within himself to indulge in the 'Afro-American way'.Previous reviews have stated that we should lighten up, those who criticise its racism. I vehemently disagree. If this were done so it was poking fun of blacks, DO YOU REALLY THINK WE'LL ALL BE JOKING ROUND AND ASKING BLACKS TO LIGHTEN UP? No. I'll probably be asked to withdraw the film, I'll be sued to the point of bankruptcy and I'll be lampooned in public. But all I would have done was create a white version of Undercover Brother.The jokes are almost entirely one-sided in discrimination of whites. I'm definitely not a racist, and am all for those of dark skin pigmentation being proud of who they are, but this is ridiculous. Blacks and whites are generally treated as two different parts of society. We see this in the Brotherhood being almost entirely black, the music and the condescending attitude blacks have towards 'white culture'. Isn't this 'apartness' exactly what apartheid was trying to achieve? When Undercover Brother sleeps with a Caucasian women in the course of infiltration of The Man's corporate infrastructure, he gets flak from all-quarters (you'll see for yourself though) for doing so. Now, to me fornicating is repugnant, but if two black people can sleep together, why can't a black man/woman and a white man/woman do so? WHAT IS WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE? The movie is in the worst of taste, and there are better ways to spend 82.25 minutes of your time.I won't tell the ending however, but the movie is such that there HAS to be an Undercover Brother Two to follow up. Perhaps the next one will be better. Probably not.  "},{"Title":"Occasionally funny but really just enforces racial stereotypes (which can't be a good thing)","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  With the high point of black culture coming in the 70's something has gone wrong up to the turn of the century and it has been diluted.  This dilution has been caused by the manipulations of `The Man', a sinister white man who is dedicated to bringing it down.  When a black General decides to run for President, The Man uses a mind control substance to convince him to open a fried chicken chain instead.  When even an organisation that protects black culture (The Brotherhood) fails to prevent this they turn to the one man who is funky enough to overcome the whites and protect the black culture - Undercover Brother.I really don't know what to say about black cinema anymore.  On one hand you have Spike Lee just releasing one of his best films for a few years but on the other you have comedies such as National Security and Barbershop which seem to revel in enforcing racial stereotypes.  This is another one of the latter although it is at least a little funnier than the others I mentioned. Here it is more affectionate than outright racist but it still enforces the old stereotypes of black men lusting after white women, black people loving fried chicken, black men smoking weed, white culture being uptight etc etc. it never really ends.The only possible saving point would be if it was hilarious and sadly it isn't.  It is very hit and miss and comes out more miss than hit.  It is occasionally funny mostly it is sort of half amusing at best.  The only good stereotype that the film hammers home is the one that men find women fighting sexy!  There is a nice little spoof cat fight that both satisfies those with this idea as well as mocking them!The actual plot is pointless to discuss and barely matters among all the race clichés and crude jokes.  It still amazes me that these films can get away with making racial generalisations (when Undercover Brother goes white he is tested by being asked questions about the series `Friends'!) but I guess that racism only cuts one way.  I wasn't offended by the jokes but I did wonder why these type of films keep getting made - is it because there are no better ideas that anyone wants to put to this market?The cast are average which is about right for the material.  Griffin is strangely the least memorable one of the cast considering he is the title character.  Denise Richards is sexy but should never have allowed herself to become such an offensive cliché - `the white girl lusting after black men'; I wonder how many interracial couples (or all sorts) found it offensive that this was portrayed in this way.  Ellis is sexy but underused (even the film prefers Richards to her!) although her short catfight was the high point for me (it seems that no-one has problem with mixed relationships when they are lesbian!)  The support cast is full of people just mugging their way through - Chappelle had a few good lines but to see an actor of Billy Dee Williams influence be dragged into this type of thing is just embarrassing.Overall this has a few funny moments but the majority of the jokes are built on race.  It is a shame that a secret agent spoof film can't get past the issue of race - when they do the result is Austin Powers or The Man From Uncle, when they can't you get something like this. "},{"Title":"Bad bad bad movie....","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not funny, not..... no nothing actually. If possible avoid this movie at almost any cost. Your time is clearly worth more than this movie.Seriously one of the dullest movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Sort of, lacking","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not one to say I didn't laugh at Undercover Brother at times, maybe times I shouldn't have, but I didn't laugh with it much though.  The black stereotypes can be funny, but Lee stretches them out here to the point where when you maybe try and take some sincerity, it doesn't work from the constant presence of THE MAN.  Griffin plays it cool as Undercover Brother, who can parallel park from the other side of the street while keeping hold of his orange soda, who gets assigned to track down THE MAN and his scheme against a general (oddly placed Billy Dee Williams) to sell Fried Chicken over becoming the president.  Uh-huh- there are also supporting characters including a white she-devil (Denise Richards), and a conspiracizing African American, in the funniest role of the movie, played by Dave Chappelle. There is fun to be had at Undercover Brother, but is could've had a better script and not gone for the dig in repetitiveness.  Anyway, just remember, mess with the fro, you have to go!  B- "},{"Title":"Undercover Blunder","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This was the worst comedy I have ever seen. Eddie Griffith was excellent in Double Take because that movie had a great storyline. This movie had a kiddie mediocre storyline with horrible jokes. NOTHING was funny.  The movie tries too hard to make you laugh at racist jokes such as hot sauce and fried chicken.  It tries too hard in general. Comedy is best left simple like in Deuce Bigalo male Gigallow. This disappointed me greatly because I loved Eddie Griffith in Deuce Bigalo Male Giggalo and Double Take. Only thing good about this movie is Denise Richards because she is very good looking. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Undercover Blunder","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  This was the worst comedy I have ever seen. Eddie Griffith was excellent in Double Take because that movie had a great storyline. This movie had a kiddie mediocre storyline with horrible jokes. NOTHING was funny.  The movie tries too hard to make you laugh at racist jokes such as hot sauce and fried chicken.  It tries too hard in general. Comedy is best left simple like in Deuce Bigalo male Gigallow. This disappointed me greatly because I loved Eddie Griffith in Deuce Bigalo Male Giggalo and Double Take. Only thing good about this movie is Denise Richards because she is very good looking. 3/10 "},{"Title":"This Movie Has 3 Problems&#133; !","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" The black version of Austin Powers after 5 years of the original. Or it's the Bond spoof meets the Blexploitation spoof. Anyhow it's one of the funniest comedies through one of the shortest 90 minutes movies. But it got some problems that made it away from being the smart parody it could've been._The casting  (Eddie Griffin) is good comedian but way far to be a lead. He lacked the charisma and the personal touch. (Chris Kattan) transformed the whole matter into a big silly gag, sometimes being hysterical doesn't mean laughable. (Denise Richards) don't get me starting, as an actress she's the weakest, and as a sexy mama she's not (they even had to enlarge her assets to look good at the poster !!). (Chi McBride) wasn't that good as a comedian. And finally (Aunjanue Ellis) was droll as (Sistah Girl) but not great as a (girl)! _The direction  (Malcolm D. Lee) handled it lame for most of the time. He let the jokes scenes, like all of Dave Chappelle's ones, be like a stand-up comic number or a devoted TV work. His cadres were so tide, his camera didn't move where it should be. I felt like this is just a TV sketch more than a respectable cinematic parody. Not to mention how I'm still dying to watch a parody, any parody, for the technicalities, the goofs, and the lowness of some of the Blexploitation movies, to not find it here or anywhere ! They're things begging to be spoofed._The production  it's weird, because at the end you'd witness some money here, like they were saving what they have during all the movie to spend it away at the climax only ?? Despite anything, its writer (John Ridley) made a fine comedy with some effective sarcasm aiming at the modern pop, and representing some nice black jokes about the so-called white culture. I found it too amusing to watch ideas like  a brainwash by the Mayonnaise, letting the politics to the Kentucky Fried chicken, the rap music beats the racism,.. etc. It's even an ethical movie (drugs can make you paranoiac)!. All of that in fast speed, sharp editing (sometimes), and with so brilliant dialog. Without the usual common nowadays' trash of (toilet humor, bad taste, dirty rude comedy,..).In fact it managed to be good as a spoof, but not as a very good spoof. "},{"Title":" Hey Sista!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Eddie Griffin is awkward as Undercover Brother in this campy adventure farce. The supporting cast is illegitimate. The costumes are trendy. One of the fair movies in the genre, Undercover Brother issues few adventures. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"keep this one UNDER the COVER!","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" I remember the director of this film sending out a mass e-mail to people begging them to support this film, saying it was not stereotypical and was a truly unique film. Neither one was accurate. It tried so hard to be funny and clever, but instead, was sorely hackneyed. Also, casting overrated talent like Eddie Griffin (has he EVER done something of worth or integrity) and Dave Chappelle was a big misstep as well. If this same director urges people to come out for a future effort, he won't get much support, because he burned the public with this forgettable, disposable fare. Fool me once, shame of you. Fool me twice, shame on me. This director would fool me again. No way. "},{"Title":"Poor Cousin","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Not an especially funny movie. Its a retro blaxploitation spoof, a bit like a black Austin Powers. Unfortunately its not as original or funny. If this kind of thing interests you then watch 'I'm gonna get you sucka!' instead. Its far far better. I almost walked out of the theatre, but each time I had decided to quit there was one funny joke - so I gave it another chance. It was a mistake. "}{"Title":"Terrible film","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Undercover Brother is another Austin Powers wanna-be movie  and is predictable and boring.  Technically, it was a weak film, as well.  I saw the boom in two different shots.  The pace is all over the place.  I couldn't wait for it to end.    "},{"Title":"I thought it was a comedy","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  Reminds me of Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! just another stupid movie, that tries to make you laugh. In my opinion Eddie Griffin is a swell actor, but this movie just sucks. I forced myself to watch it until the end waiting for a funny situation that comes naturally in a good comedy, that almost happened at the end, almost. Brings nothing new. If you saw Austin Powers and didn't like it, don't waste your time watching Undercover Brother. "},{"Title":"Ohh my good it stinks!!!","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I cant understand how a majority of the voters can find this movie good!? I usually find this sight to have pretty intelligent people with a good taste but this is really to bad for the sight when a flick this meaningless, with humor that takes the word suck to a new level can get a grade this high!!!  "},{"Title":"cliche's","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I thought this film was terrible.  The jokes were all tired cliche's of blacks.  Jokes like once you've had black you never go back or afro picks or fried chicken.  The scene that resembled the Matrix was pretty bad too.  How many times are we going to spoof that movie?  My biggest critique of this film is the music.  Could they not come up with something a little more obvious then Jungle Boogie and We Want the Funk?  This movie was lame and tired.  It's a perfect example of how stupid Hollywood thinks we all are. "},{"Title":"This movie reeked.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I can normally find something good to say about any movie.  This movie has only one redeeming quality the soundtrack.  So stay out of the theater and go to your nearest cd store and buy the soundtrack instead. The blaxploitation schtick is only funny for about three minutes.  My husband, who has loved every movie he's ever see except for Eyes Wide Shut and Eye of the Beholder and is a HUGE comedy fan didn't like this movie either. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  You know who was the funniest in this movie? Don Chappelle(? did I spell his name right?) This is another one of those movies that the preview points you in a certain direction as to what the movie is about and totally misleads you. I think that is done on purpose so people will see the crappy movies(see National Security). Nothing in this movie was particularily funny. Chris Kattan from SNL was funny though he seems to always go a little overboard with his comedy. I liked the story as THE MAN trying to stop black culture from reaching the mainstream and undercover brother and THE BROTHERHOOD try to stop him. Maybe they should just stop Eddie Griffith from making such horrible movies. Please, Please, skip this one. I will give this a D+ for a few laughable points. "},{"Title":"Racist comedy? Very much so.","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":" If you ever want to figure out whether a film is racist, the only thing you need to do is turn the roles around and think about whether Jesse Shakedown artist Jackson or Al race-baitor Sharpton will come and protest the studio that produced the film and the theaters that are showing it.So does this film pass the racist test? Yes, it does and it is a racist film. It's unbelievable how ridiculously insulting this film is to White people. And it doesn't make Black people look too good either.It's not even funny, it's just a stupid racist film that should never have seen the light of day. Anyone that actually put money out of their pocket to see this film should have an easy time in Small Claims Court to sue and get their money back. This movie was a flop and justifiably so. It was horribly bad. The script was simply lame and the plot was moronic. Everyone associated with this film should be put out of business forever.Do not waste your time with this trash. "},{"Title":"Why would anyone want to make a movie like this?","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this movie one of those sundays, (you know when there's nothing else to do). this has to be the Worst movie I've ever seen, I have nothing against Eddie Griffin but in this movie.. oh my.. He's terrible. The story what story?, there's really no story, the acting is as bad as it gets. this is another poor attempt to build a franchise similar to Austin Powers (not even close). Save your money and go to the park instead.  "},{"Title":"just plain stupid","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy","Review":"  I left having watched 10 minutes of this movie....the combination of the annoying kids sitting behind me laughing at the stupidest jokes, and the combination of a movie that just wasn't funny really ruined the experience for me. I walked out of the movie and proceeded to watch the last hour of Episode II for the 3rd time, which is more fufilling than watching Undercover Brother. I don't recommend this movie to anyone unless they are either drunk, or stoned. Then and only then, will the movie be tolerable. "}]