[{"Title":"an offbeat gem","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"93 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Anniston gives a beautiful, heartfelt performance in `The Good Girl,' a film totally in tune with the rhythms of everyday life. Anniston' Justine Last is just one of the many people inhabiting this Deep South, Bible Belt town who find themselves leading lives of quiet desperation, imprisoned by the dreary sameness of their daily routines.  Justine works at one of those generic five-and-dime drug stores that so define the culture of Middle America.  Yet, Justine's job and work environment are not the only sources of her frustration.  She is also married to a well-meaning but dull blue collar worker who would rather spend the evening sitting on the sofa getting stoned with his partner than engage in any meaningful relationship-building with his wife.  At the age of 30 then, Justine is ripe for some kind of life-changing experience when in walks Holden Worther, an introverted, obviously disturbed young co-worker who sees in Justine the very soul mate he has been searching for all his life, a person who will understand him and share his hatred for the life they are both leading.`The Good Girl' is really about the contrast between what we would like our lives to be and what they really are.  Justine knows that the `easy' choice would be to pull up stakes and simply run away with Holden, abandoning a town, a marriage and a husband she has come lately to both abhor and despise.  Yet, something keeps Justine rooted to the spot, something that makes her understand that any decision she makes will end up hurting someone in the end besides herself.  Perhaps she sticks around because she realizes that, for all his faults, her husband is, in reality, a pretty decent guy overall and that he really does love her.  Perhaps she also realizes that Holden is more mentally disturbed than she is willing to admit and that whatever life she might have with him would only mean exchanging one set of troubles for another.  Credit the Mike White screenplay with exploring the complex nature of the film's characters and relationships.  We never quite know where the story is headed or how all the issues will get resolved - if at all.  As in real life, the story here keeps bumping up against new and ever more challenging complications and, because we can identify with the messiness, we are eager to go along with it wherever it chooses to take us. The film also does a fine job showing how life takes wholly unexpected turns at times, such as when a fairly major character dies unexpectedly.  The casual suddenness of the death throws us for a loop since we so rarely see death portrayed that way in the movies.Miguel Arteta's deadpan, matter-of-fact directorial style brings out the black comedy richness inherent in the material.  Amid all the pain and sadness, there are a surprising number of genuine laughs in the film as we see our own lives reflected in the people and incidents there on the screen. Actually, the film reminds us a bit - in its music, its use of voiceover narration and its unromanticized view of rural life - of Terrance Malick's great 1973 film, `Badlands,' a landmark in independent American filmmaking.Anniston, who is probably in every scene in the film, carries the picture with her rich and highly empathetic performance.  Even though her character is a woman slowly becoming deadened to the world around her, she still retains that spark of life and that absurd hope for the future that make her worthy to be the centerpiece of an intimate drama such as this one.  Jake Gyllenhaal makes Holden both strangely appealing and a little frightening, so that, as Justine does, we come to admire his `uniqueness' of spirit (he has adopted his name from the main character of his favorite book `Catcher in the Rye') yet fear his increasing possessiveness.   John C. Reilly as Justine's husband, Phil, and Deborah Rush as Gwen Jackson, Justine's sometime confidante at the store, also provide memorable, telling performances.  In fact, there is nothing less than a superb performance in the entire film.The question of whether or not Justine is really `a good girl' is, as it should be, left up to the individual viewer to decide.  Some may feel she is; others may feel she's not.  What really matters, though, is that `The Good Girl' doesn't try to impress us with the slickness that generally defines mainstream commercial filmmaking.  Instead it lets its drama unfold in an unforced, believable manner, so that even its moments of greatest absurdity seem somehow strangely real and lifelike.  It is a film that, in its own quiet, subtle way, manages to get under your skin - and keeps you thinking for a long time after you leave the theater. "},{"Title":"A fine movie","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"64 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  'The Good Girl' is a sad comedy starring Jennifer Aniston as Justine. She works at Retail Rodeo where she is very unhappy. When she comes home she finds her husband Phil (John C. Reilly) stoned on the couch with his best friend Bubba (Tim Blake Nelson) night after night. It is not very strange she is attracted to Holden (Jake Gyllenhaal) the new kid who comes to work at Retail Rodeo. He is even more depressed than she is, he reads The Catcher in the Rye and has named himself after that book. Soon she starts an affair with him and one night Bubba sees them together. Bubba makes his own little plan.A thing that surprised me was the great acting. John C. Reilly, who was in every great movie in 2002 (also 'Gangs of New York', 'Chicago' and 'The Hours'), is great as the husband, Jake Gyllenhaal terrific as the disturbed kid and most of all Jennifer Aniston is superb as Justine. Here she everything but Rachel from 'Friends' and that is a very good thing. She is really acting and it is one of the best performances of 2002.The sad story is very good as well and there is some fine comedy, especially with another worker at Retail Rodeo names Cheryl (Zooey Deschanel). She insults customers all the time and says the strangest things; the customers hardly notice. Funny, sad and very good is what 'The Good Girl' is in the end. "},{"Title":"Downbeat but engaging","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"50 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Justine works at a supermarket in a small town and is married to her underachieving painter husband.  She feels trapped and unable to deal with the stagnant pool that is her life.  When a mysteriously dark young man begins to work at the supermarket she gets involved with him as a way out of her normal life into something more exciting.  However things get much more exciting that she expected.Rented by my wife as she searched for something in a sort of comedy/drama.  As always she has pretty good judgement and better taste than I give her credit for.  I had heard reasonable things about this film but I wasn't sure if it would just be another Friends clone comedy.  Happily my fears were not realised and this film is actually quite a brave shot at being a character study rather than another one of her hollow rom-coms.  The plot looks at an ordinary woman who is living a life that is far below what she thought she wanted.  It is not spectacular but it works well on this level.  We see her pursue her supposed dream but only getting sucked into other things that she doesn't want for her life.  Not all the drama works as well as others and some twists and scenes are a little too much for such a low-key film.The film has some laughs in it, but not so many that it hurts the main drama of the film.  At times the comedy works well to compliment the main thread but occasionally it is misjudged and threatens to take away from it a bit.  The fact that the film is quite down beat and low-key might put some off as it doesn't really set the screen on fire, however what it does do well is develop the character of Justine as you watch the film.As such the film does rely on the acting and the majority of it is very good.  As much as I dislike her performance in Friends (and thus every repeat she's done in the films), Aniston does very well here and her Justine is as far from her Rachael as is needed.  Likewise her character is as far from any life she has ever lived, but she brings it to life and does develop well while still keeping it down to earth and relatable.  Reilly and Nelson have good roles that get better as the film goes on and they give good performances.  Nelson has the harder job of keeping his character within some sort of relatable reality and he does it well.  Gyllenhaal's character is harder to get and is not treated as well by the film, but in essence he is the driver for Justine's journey and is developed well enough to do that.  He plays him well and, with Donnie Darko, is in danger of only getting the `weirdo kid' roles.Overall this is a good film that is maybe too downbeat and understated to be really called enjoyable.  It is good to see a Hollywood star make a film that is driven by her character and she rises to the challenge and gives a performance that, although not earth shattering, is certainly better than all the stuff she's been doing of late. "},{"Title":"Touching, Compelling, Perfectly Ordinary","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"52 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is great, in my opinion, because its so misunderstood. Its so simple! The dialogue is not heavy, but it is perfectly articulated and emotional, and delivered brilliantly by Jennifer Aniston, who really shines as Justine, a small town girl who wants to get away from the monotony of life. Jake Gyllenhaal's role as a Holden Caulfield wannabe is well pulled off. I particularly liked how depressingly un attractive his drunken dramas were. You could see so many emotions in Justine, trying to ignore what she didn't like about him, trying to find something to love about him. Though my all time favourite aspect of the movie is the painfully realistic awkward sex and kissing. With an extreme but none the less effective ending, I'd easily give this film a biased 9/10! A little slice of real life, for a change. "},{"Title":"thoughtful slice of life","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"40 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Years ago I had a conversation with some young guy who worked on the loading docks. He was frustrated by his life, felt inarticulate and incapable of escaping his plight or of really doing anything with his life. He had the wish but not the talent to express himself through art and felt he had nothing to look forward to. I thought of him while watching The Good Girl, a movie about a very ordinary person trapped in a hum drum existence. I've noticed some discussion in these reviews as to whether The Good Girl is a comedy or drama, and I would suggest people stop trying to label the movie. The Good Girl clearly isn't trying to be either, but simply a movie that captures the life of someone who feels trapped, portraying both the drama and comedy inherent in life. It's a small, studied, intelligently written movie that's well worth watching. Don't worry about what it is, just watch it and take it the way you take life, not as a comedy or drama but just as what it is. "},{"Title":"hideous person (SPOILERS)","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"30 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOLIERS - i thought Anniston's character was completely hideous by the end. because a relationship has become inconvenient for her, she 1) almost tries to kill her lover by feeding him poison berries 2) goes to his parents and tries to get him commited... perhaps he is ill, but she totally lies about the relationship to protect herself, and going to the parents portrayed in the film as uncaring, distant and hated by their son is a total betrayal of him... 3) finally she betrays him again and he shoots himself. She could have let him leave town without telling the police where he was - sure, it would have been a little uncomfortable for her at retail rodeo, but to betray him like that? life goes on for Justine however, especially since she is able to convince her husband her baby is his. one could argue she was doing him a favour... but when the whole town will be suspicious of the parentage.... i can deal with morally ambiguous characters, but justine turned out all bad and just so very selfish & base. that's what i got out of the movie. anybody else? "},{"Title":"Nonchalant both about its brains and its humor","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Aniston excels as small-town cashier, stifled in a rudderless marriage and miserable at her boring job, who has an affair with a younger co-worker, leading to a series of confounding personal events. Black comedy is initially bright and biting, subtle about its comedic elements and characters while gently satirizing the middle class aesthetic. Unfortunately, the film takes a wrong turn late in the second-half and never quite recovers, leading to an emotionally unsatisfying finish. The performers are all terrific, especially John C. Reilly as Aniston's pot-smoking husband; but, as the screenplay loses steam so do the actors, and the final events are mechanically offbeat--engineered to be quirky. *** from **** "},{"Title":"A Deep and Dramatic Story About Frustration in Life With Touches of Black Humor","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Justine (the gorgeous Jennifer Aniston) is a thirty years old, frustrated and married woman, bored with her monotonous life. She works as a clerk in a supermarket, and none of her dreams has come through. She quit schooling just before going to the college, she got married very young, she got trapped in a small town in a job without any perspective and even her expectation of being mother is not being accomplished. Her husband Phil (John C. Reilly, an excellent and underrated actor) is a house painter, who gets stoned most of the vacant time, as a form of escaping his life, with his colleague and best friend Bubba (Tim Blake Nelson). Their entertainment is watching a noisy TV at night. One day, Justine meets her new colleague Holden Worther (Jack Gyllenhaal), a strange ex-addicted and drunken guy, who wants to be a writer. Justine feels a type of attraction for him, which grows to a crush, ending in an affair. The cuckold and naive Phil does not suspect of the situation. Then, the screenplay presents many plot points, alternating dramatic situations with a very black humor. This is indeed a deep movie, with very well developed characters. Basically all of them have a sort of frustration in life, like all of us, which is revealed along the story. The black humor is proportioned in doses to relieve the tension in many situations. Jennifer Aniston proves that she is an excellent actress, able to conduct and carry out a dense movie. Many persons just know her work as Rachel in `Friends', and just expect her to perform foolish roles. For them, I suggest for example, to watch `The Object of My Affection'. I am very suspicious to write about Jennifer Aniston, since I am a great fan of her, but she has a great performance in this film. Of course, the supporting actors and actresses and the direction are also superb. It is ridiculous the classification of comedy for such a movie. This type of classification certainly misleads the viewer and affects the evaluation.  This is a movie that deserves to be watched more than once. My vote is nine. "},{"Title":"One of the best written pictures of 2002","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mike White, writer of The Good Girl, deserves the most credit here.  While there is good direction and good performances all around, the writing tops the lot by getting the audience to feel for the characters and to understand their human nature from start to finish.  Plus, there is a even handed amount of humor (sometimes from stoners and sometimes from quirks in the store) to go along with the drama.And the performances- Jennifer Anniston shows she can actually do something other than Friends and portrays small town Justine with her wants, desperation, disgust, and ultimitely fears.  Gyllenhaal is as compelling as her passionately crazy co-worker, self based on The Catcher in the Rye if only to himself; Reilly and Nelson give the best performances of the picture (and should've gotten a little more screen time) as pot head painters with aimless destinies.The Good Girl is a keen portrayal of small town angst at the never-ending, often monotonous and uninspired/unfortunate basis.  One of the better dramedies of the year.  A- "},{"Title":"HIllarious","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"28 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  I was literally laughing so loud when I saw this movie in the theatre that people were getting mad at me.  The movie is also unbelievably sad, and if you dont like comedies with sad overtones, this is not the movie for you.  This movie is so perfectly written.  You care about Justine (Jennifer Aniston), and you can feel her deep rooted sadness for everyday life, and you can just hope that you don't get stuck in a situation like that when you go out on your own.   watch this movie more than once, Oscar nods should be given to Jennifer Aniston and Jake Gellynhall, both of their performances are amazing.(requiem for a dream) "}{"Title":"So-So Dramatic Vehicle for Aniston","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Good Girl was heavily touted as the film that would help Jennifer Aniston break from her Rachel persona and make the leap to dramatic film actress. There was even talk (however brief) about an Academy Award nomination for her when this film came out. Surprise, surprise, but that didn't happen. And where has Aniston's film career been since? The Good Girl is leaps and bounds better than any of Aniston's other ventures into film--bland crap like Picture Perfect and that other movie whose name I can't even remember--but it's not a great movie in and of itself.Aniston does a pretty good job, but you still can't escape the suspicion that she's just playing Jennifer Aniston, albeit a drabbed down version of herself. This movie's greatest asset is its supporting cast, particularly Zooey Deschanel in a very funny, dead pan role as a fellow worker at the Wal-Mart-esquire store Aniston's character works in, and Jake Gyllenhaal, who had begun his trek to stardom the year before in Donnie Darko. The gods were being kind to Gyllenhaal in 2002, as he got to make out with both Aniston and Catherine Keener (Lovely and Amazing) in the same year.The Good Girl is certainly worth watching. It captures that nowheresville feeling of small-town America perfectly, the antithesis of every Frank Capra movie on the same subject. Instead of a cosy town where everyone knows your name, these towns are instead full of bored, restless people sitting around waiting for something, anything, to happen.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Aniston's 'Good Girl' Is Anything But Good","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having just watched this film, I am stunned to find practically none of the reviewers here pointing out what a morally reprehensible monster the main character Justine is.At every turn she lies, cheats, and toys with others affections, first out of simple boredom, then to desperately maintain the life she so claimed to want to escape at the beginning. Her whims are directly responsible for first toying with an unstable young man's affections, arranging for him to be falsely committed to an insane asylum when she bores of him, then betraying him to the police after arranging to run away with him. Her actions are wholly responsible for his suicide. She has sex with her husband's best friend and deceives her man into raising a child she knows for sure is not his. Her denial over that and her determination at all costs to be seen as a 'Good Girl' causes another man to be be beaten up for no reason. It just goes on and on.Her character is a Typhoid Mary of destruction, caring for no-one but herself. THIS IS THE POINT OF THE STORY!!! and yet no-one here appears to have noticed. If her character was a man, no-one would have any trouble recognizing this, but as she is a modern, white, American woman, her story - a story of selfishness and cowardice and the enormous collateral damage to others such behaviour brings about - can only be perceived by the public as an 'Eat Pray Love' tale of a woman 'finding herself'.Mind-boggling but true. This is one crazy world.What marks this film out above most others is that, for all of that, it doesn't demonize Justine, or anyone else for that matter, but instead sees them through a compassionate human lens in which all human beings are just struggling along the same as everyone else. This is the position all genuine art speaks from, and indeed is what makes the film such a haunting and compelling experience, but considering the confused response here displayed I do think it could perhaps have pushed its point farther.John C. Reilly and Tim Blake Nelson are as solid as always, and Zooey Deschanel too puts in a typically unforgettable performance, but the real praise must go to the film's screenwriter, Mike White, who also has a small part as the church-going security guard. The theme and tone of 'The Good Girl' reminded me very much of his TV show 'Enlightened' which I would recommend to anyone impressed by this. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie Ever.","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" omg though, this MARRIED women starts an affair with this disturbed, depressed guy who has gone his whole with with no one understanding him, but he thinks that this women gets him and his really happy, but after a while she starts to not like him anymore but he really loves her and refuses to live without her. so even though SHE started it during the movie she tries to kill him, send him to a mental hospital, she breaks his heart like 3 times, and then she sends the police after him even though shes having his baby which she has said is her husbands not his, in the end she lives happily ever after, and he kills himself. I hated this movie with a passion, it was awful, and sad, and what jokes were made weren't funny. I'm sorry that I watched it. "},{"Title":"The movie is good.  The girl?  Not so much.","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you crossed The Catcher in the Rye and Madame Bovary and set the result in a small Texas town, it would be something like this film. It has all the angst and adolescent turmoil of the former and the emotional desolation and individual isolation of the former. Toss in the work of a fine cast and the star power of Jennifer Aniston and you've got yourself a funny, touching movie.Justine Last (Jennifer Aniston) is a 30 year old woman who got married too soon and has found herself trapped in a boring job and to a pot-headed house painter. Stewing in her own misanthropy, Justine is only roused from her self-pity and self-destructive anger by a young man who gets a job at the Retail Rodeo where Justine works. The 22 year old (played by Jake Gyllenhall) calls himself Holden, after the J.D. Salinger character, and refers to the name his parents gave him as his slave name. Those two things tell you pretty much everything there is to know about him. Justine begins an affair with Holden, if you can call sex in a motel after work an affair, and it seems to brighten up Justine's miserable existence. But Justine soon realizes that Holden, for all his overly-sensitive pretensions, is just an angry and unstable boy who has fixated on her as the answer to all his dreams. Then her husband's best friend uncovers her infidelity, touching off a chain of events that forces Justine to choose between the life she thinks she hates and another existence she can't even imagine.I quite liked this film. It's smart and honest and has just a bit of snark, while acknowledging how immature such snark usually is. The Good Girl makes you think about personal unhappiness and the choices and attitudes that create it. The main characters of Justine and Holden are terribly discontented with their lives, yet as the story goes along it makes you understand that probably none of the characters are living the lives of their dreams. The difference is they aren't torturing themselves and everyone else over it. Most movies that focus on the quiet desperation of ordinary life either embrace too completely the idea that normal, unexceptional lives are awful things or they are too viciously judgmental of such common angst. The Good Girl takes a more mature and measured perspective. It validates Justine's unhappiness with the life she chose by marrying the first man she really loved but holds her accountable for not making the best of that life. Her actual problem isn't her circumstances. It's her own lack of ambition or imagination to do anything to improve them.As the story unfolds, you can see that the other characters have found ways to deal with their individually unsatisfying lives. Justine's husband smokes pot to escape. The security guard at the Retail Rodeo has his religious faith. An older co-worker of Justine's has a stoic determination to make the best of things and a disdain for those who don't. A younger co-worker uses snide sarcasm to lash out at a world that doesn't meet her standards. But they all do something, while Justine and Holden just wallow in their anger and resentments.Now, there's a subplot in the story involving the best friend of Justine's husband that's much more over-the-top and overtly self-aware than the rest of the movie. It explicitly details some of the themes that remain under the surface of the rest of the film and you might find it either bracing or off putting. I suppose it depends on your tolerance for a smart script hitting you over the head a few times to make sure you get its point.Jennifer Aniston got a lot of praise when this movie first came out and it was deserved. She's able to convey the subtle nature of Justine's passivity so that you can empathize with the character, even when she's not all that sympathetic. Jake Gyllenhall is also very good with the dual nature of Holden. On the one hand you can see how Justine was attracted to him as a kindred spirit, but on the other hand Gyllenhall always keeps the stunted emotional side of Holden in view of both Justine and the audience. John C. Reilly as Justine's husband does some nice work as well. He takes a character that is supposed to be dumber and shallower than either Justine or Holden and makes him into a person and not a plot device.There have been a lot of independent films made about the ordinary lives or ordinary people. Most of them suck because they're made by filmmakers who either hate such ordinary people or see their lives as nothing more than metaphors to be exploited. The Good Girl does none of that, which makes it a movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"The girl that wanted to please everyone","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Miguel Arteta is a very good director. He should be given credit for getting a good performance of the ensemble cast of this film. Jennifer Aniston gets out of her Friends persona and proves that given the right vehicle she can deliver, as she does here. She's a good girl and wants to do good by the different men around her. She's married to John C. Rilley, in a marriage that has gone sour. You wonder how this pair got together in the first place. Maybe Justine in her narrow vision saw him as her ticket for a better life. She's in a joyless job where boredom is the norm. Life in that part of the Bible Belt must be very dull since there is nothing else in the lives of these people the story depicts. Her ticket to salvation is Holden, beautifully portrayed by Jake Gyllenhaal. He's a rebel who doesn't know what he really wants until he meets Justine in the store where they both work. He brings into her life an excitement she's definitely missing from the life she leads with a boring husband. He strikes the right chords in her soul and she responds to him.The rest of the cast, Tim Blake Nelson, Deborah Rush, Mike White and Zooey Deschand, are very effective.In the end, Justine is just as happy to accept her fate and get into what is expected of a good girl to do. "},{"Title":"Melancholy for everyone!","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Recap Justine feels like her life is prison. She is stuck in a job that she hates, and stuck in a marriage that she resents. Her husband is more of a pothead than a painter. But one day there is a young new cashier at her job, Holden. He wakes up feelings in Justine that she hasn't felt in a long time. Curiosity, closeness. Desire. They start to have an affair but then guilt strikes Justine. She feels guilty for abandoning her friends, she feels guilty for abandoning her marriage and finally she doesn't know what to do. Stay in her marriage or run with Holden, but Holden shows to be more fragile than herself. And in the midst of this, she is suddenly pregnant.Comments Much more of a drama than of anything else. It is listed as a comedy and a romance too, but it isn't very funny, and not very romantic either. In my opinion, just because one of the ingredients is marriage and adultery, it isn't a love story. This is really a movie about being stuck in one place with no expectations, coming to resent it and being desperate to leave or change it, by any means. It is a drama, don't expect anything else.I had my hopes for a bigger element of comedy, especially with accomplished comedians Jennifer Aniston and John C Reilly leading the cast, so it didn't meet many of my expectations. It wasn't bad, but not very good either. The only fun parts sprung from the equally bored character Cheryl, played by Zooey Deschanel, who tries to live up her day by breaking all the rules.Otherwise it is pretty dark, full with misery. It is not a feel good movie, and it never really changes gear. Justine just stumbles along the story, from event to event, scene to scene, more or less in misery. But still in misery all the way. Not very uplifting to watch. This is only for those who like their stories full of melancholy, not anyone else. Do not, like me, get fooled by the cast, to think it is something else.5/10 "},{"Title":"What good is a baby when the TV doesn't work?","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Zooey Deschanel's in it! Talkking dirty over the supermarket PA! It's a small part, but loads of fun. I just can't get enough of her. Despite some funny streaks, the movie is mostly sad. Kind of like it's based on an Eva Cassidy song Maybe Bill and I someday will find a chance to get away. Jennifer Anniston is wonderful in the part of Justine, a small-town checkout girl married to a klutz. She is trying hard to come to terms with the unlived lives she has left behind, but at age 30, she just can't accept she'll be stuck at the Retail Rodeo for life. Says Justine, in a weary Texas drawl I saw in your eyes that you hate the world. I hate it too. Director Miguel Arteta uses very little off-screen music, carefully designed sets, washed-out colors, and lots of ill-fitting outfits to create a world so bleak it's hard to believe the characters manage even to get up in the morning. They lead the kind of life that makes them wonder what they would have missed had they never been born. I suppose the ending is happier than it could have been, but that doesn't say it's a happy ending. Watch out for the slightly creepy guest appearance by scriptwriter Mike White as Corny, the Bible Study guy. Fine performances even in the smaller roles, most notably perhaps by John C. Lynch, of Fargo fame, in the part of the store manager, and by Tim Blake Nelson, one of the original Soggy Bottom Boys, as Bubba the Loser. "},{"Title":"A piece of conservative propaganda","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After having read several user comments it strikes me as weird that no-one mentioned the obvious conservativeness of the plot. Young girl in a dead end job with a no good lazy husband sees an opportunity to free herself. But beware of those craaaazy free thinkers who promises a life beyond what you already have, they might seem interesting, but following them and believing in their promises will only lead to certain disaster. So in conclusion stay with what you've got, cause it's better than the alternative.It's hard to know where exactly to start. Hogging the independent feel of movies like Happiness and American Beauty (certain scenes are pure rip-offs), this movie is a tour de force in conservative propaganda. It's funny, though, to witness how little understanding the creators have of the vibe that makes the aforementioned movies little masterpieces. Holdens' character is hilariously badly written, an example on how writers with no depth should stick to writing screenplays for teen-flicks and action movies. And the dialogue in general - with no exaggeration - some of the worst I've ever heard.I would have enjoyed this movie for its' obvious pretentiousness if it hadn't been for the fact that I fear movies like these poison our world with shallowness, stupidity and conservativeness. Even most of the reviewers gave it descent reviews, which I find absolutely incredible - or maybe not *sigh*. Well maybe it's just you who's off then!. Well maybe, but I still urge people to give it an extra glance before joining either the it's boring-side or it's brilliant-side.It's just really, really stupid and common-denominator-demoting. "},{"Title":"Useless","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I suppose I am old fashioned but I thought this was a bad vehicle for Aniston and what for? A depressing slice of life and what the heck do you learn from such a script. Is there something in there that is poignant and we should care. Yikes. I am impressed that so many viewers loved this film but maybe I need to check myself out for not appreciating what others appear to regard as an over-looked piece of film. Jennifer is talented and I don't see her going anywhere in her track of very poor choices. Why is that?She is a cutey patootie and belongs on the small screen and if she goes back to what made her great, then she'll go a very long distance. This film will not be a down the road keeper or mentioned for its script or cinematography. These actors needed paychecks. "},{"Title":"Patronising, if occasionally effective, satire on small-town America","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the risks of starring in a highly successful TV series is that of becoming forever typecast in similar roles. An example was Six Days, Seven Nights in which David Schwimmer essentially played Ross from Friends under another name. In The Good Girl, Schwimmer's co-star Jennifer Aniston appears to be trying to escape this trap by getting as far away as she can from her yuppie-chick Rachel character. She plays Justine, a thirty-something checkout clerk in a downmarket small-town supermarket. We learn that seven years earlier Justine had the opportunity to go to college, but turned it down for fear of losing her boyfriend Phil. This was a bad move. Phil, now Justine's husband, is a dull, boorish slob who, when not working as a painter, spends all his time with his good friend Bubba watching TV or getting stoned. (The name Bubba seems to be cinematic shorthand for redneck poor white trash). Phil and Bubba's one gesture in the direction of unconventionality is that their drug of choice is an illegal one (cannabis) rather than the more socially acceptable alcohol.It is a stock Hollywood cliché that life is only worth living if one has the good fortune to live in a major city on America's East or West coast. The Middle American small town, even if it appears happy and tranquil at first sight, is generally portrayed as a pretty hellish place to live, and the Texas town where Justine lives does not even bother trying to hide its hellishness behind a façade of happiness and tranquillity. Yet, even though the main characteristic of life in the town seems to be a soul-destroying dullness, the only people who are seriously discontented with their lot are Justine and her workmate Holden Worther, a young man in his early twenties.Holden's real name (or, as he puts it, his slave name) is Tom, but he has renamed himself after the hero of Catcher in the Rye. That should have been a clue to his real character, but Justine has presumably never read Salinger's novel and so misses this obvious danger signal. Holden is a geeky loner, obsessed with the idea that he is misunderstood by an uncaring society. He sees the equally malcontent Justine as a kindred spirit and the two embark on an affair. From Justine's point of view, this proves to be an even worse move than her marriage to Phil, as Holden is not only possessive but also mentally unbalanced. Worse still, their affair is discovered by Bubba, who has long cherished an unrequited lust for Justine and takes the opportunity to blackmail her into sleeping with him. Justine begins to wonder whether she might not be better off with Phil after all; he may be a slob, but he is, basically, a decent-hearted slob. He is one of the few major characters in this film who never does anything spiteful or mean-minded.The film does not take its subject-matter altogether seriously, but for most of the time its overall tone is not so much one of humour- not even black humour- but what might best be described as ironical distancing. There are, however, some effective pieces of satire. Cheryl, another of Justine's colleagues, uses the supermarket's public address system to insult customers, generally without them noticing. A vegetarian health-food zealot dies of food poisoning after eating contaminated blackberries. A fire-and-brimstone Christian fundamentalist turns out to be a hypocrite and a creepy pervert. (Actually, that last one is probably not satire, just Hollywood's standard view of conservative Christianity).Aniston is reasonably good as Justine, although I did not think her performance merited an Oscar nomination, as some have suggested. Most of the other actors turn in good performances, within the limits of the one-dimensional way in which most of the characters are written. The film's main drawback is that, like a number of satires aimed at small-town America, it tends to stereotype and patronise its subjects. It seems to be written from the standpoint that Holden and Justine are to be pitied because they are so miserable at having to live in such a godforsaken place and that all the other townspeople are to be pitied because they are so stupid that they do not realise how miserable they are. (It must be said, however, that The Good Girl is far from being the worst offender in this respect- that probably being the crude and ill-natured Drop Dead Gorgeous). It seems to be aiming to do for rural small towns what American Beauty did for suburbia, but lacks the spiritual insight or depth of meaning of the earlier film. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Not bad (!)","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A well acted and well observed film that can't quite break the shackles of a weak script and purposeless plot. Jennifer Aniston is very good in this against-type indie feature. A twanging Southern dialect is well maintained and she manages to belie her considerable good looks and small screen associations to become a dead-ended housewife.There's excellent support from John C Reilly and the rest of the cast also have their pathologies and unsalvageable lives well-honed. I particularly like Zooey Deschanel's Cheryl in this respect; the spirited youngster at the faceless mart where the drama kicks off, she presents a genuine alternative to the 'prison of life' speech that Aniston gives in voice-over at the outset.One slightly depressing thing. There's no music in the film proper until Aniston admits to being 30 years old. This is the point at which the pathos really kicks in. Sheesh. 5/10 "},{"Title":"endorse the comments of juliejuliette","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Juliejuliette has it right. Aniston plays a girl who is weak and selfish, without any real character. She first seduces an unhappy and introverted young man well played by Gyllenhaal (who is not as disturbed as some viewers think) who is looking for love and when he falls hopelessly in love with her she then finds him a danger to her marriage and betrays him, getting rid of him and driving him to suicide. She doesn't seem to feel very guilty about what she has done and only minimally sad. She is an opportunist who runs away from responsibility for what she does. At the end she is lying to her husband to preserve a marriage she doesn't like. In all she is the opposite of a good girl, and I suppose the title is meant ironically. The movie does present her and her dubious morality in a realistic way. There is nothing sentimental about it. "},{"Title":"A Little Disappointing","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After reading great reviews, I was a little disappointed.  All the characters were boring and unlikeable.  I grew to dislike Justine after what she did to Holden. The movie was above average but nothing touched or moved me to love it. This is the first movie that I have seen Jennifer Aniston in (from Picture Perfect to Bruce Almighty) where I haven't thought that she was playing just an extension of Rachel (Friends). The movie was successful in showing a realistic view of boredom and unhappiness in Justine's life, except that she wore complete perfect makeup when in bed with her husband. For Aniston to be truly brave and unvain, she should've been makeup free when going to sleep.  However this is the best acting job I have seen Aniston in and she was convincing as Justine. "},{"Title":"Far Exceeded My Expectations","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This really was a good movie.  When I rented the DVD with my girlfriend, I thought I was in for a typical chick flick, assuming that is the type of projects Aniston usually takes on.  I never really took Jennifer Aniston serious as an actress, but this film completely changed my mind.  Aniston was brilliant, and the story was engaging and funny.  I hope Aniston continues taking chances on such films and such roles; if she does, she may have the most talent in her immediate family.  Do yourself a favor and see The Good Girl! "},{"Title":"predictable crappy life","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  boring, a chick has nothing to live for and has an affair.  it does no good. nothing unpredictable happens.  acting is ok but so what? its like watching real life at a k-mart.if you like this kind of movie see the one about the barber.  "},{"Title":"Bad girl's apathy and low moral compass wrecks havoc to those she encounters","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ***MILD SPOILERS*** Told it was the best film of last summer, I couldn't believe what I saw when I rented it last night. A poorly written, boring story of a bored convenience store worker who has an affair which results in her lover's death. While I thought Aniston had some funny lines, this film was not meant to be funny. It was sad and depressing. None of the people in the film were admirable in any way. Who are we supposed to root for? I was very surprised this film was even made and wondered why Aniston picked this drippy movie as her first film. The character actually tries to murder her lover, causes his death, tries to have him committed. She sleeps with her husband's creepy best friend. Tricks her husband into believing their baby is his. Ennui aside, why watch a film like this? Thank Goodness I only paid .49 cents to rent this film. "},{"Title":"excruciatingly boring, with a bad message","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"     This movie is almost impossible to sit through.  It has some decent moments, but it sucks and drags as a whole.  Almost all of the good stuff comes from John Reilly, and he doesn't appear that much.  Tim Blake Nelson is hideous and boring here, Jennifer Aniston is dumb and boring here, and Jake Gyllenhal is screwed up and boring here.    Plus, the whole thing seems to be subtly taking a shot at Texas.  Look around at some of the best talent in the business that is from this state, people.  That dog just won't hunt.  We didn't ask you to make this stupid movie, and I assure you we aren't going to support it. By the way, we know that almost everyone who doesn't live here is secretly--or openly--envious.  That doesn't escape us.****Spoiler****The message seems to be, this guy is different, so he is better off dead. ****End of Spoiler****Really, Jennifer, is this the only part you could get to take your career in a new direction? "},{"Title":"Another Bad Movie","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is in second place behind The Age of Innocence as the worst movie!  What happened to the movie that all the loser critics raved about. I think the best parts must have been left on the cutting room floor!! If this is someone's version of REAL life, they need to quit sniffing glue. The store scenes were dry and boring.  Did someone actually write a script for this movie???So far Matthew Perry's movies have been the best of all the Friends Cast.If you want to rent this, make sure it's a $1.99 rental. "},{"Title":"A Great Disappointment","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This attempt at black comedy or social satire falls on its face because of a really bad screenplay and some pretty bad acting and directing as well. The characters come off as cartoon figures, unrealistic and flat. I was greatly disappointed by the film and couldn't wait for it to end.  "},{"Title":"Boring story about boredom","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Hollywood film that wants to be indie, but ends up as neither. Plot and theme in themselves are cliche as can be (ordinary dead- end lifes, adultery).  The film needs strong characters and goodcraftsmanship to make it come alive - it has neither.  Well, at leastthe director is honest enough to refrain from pouring on the usualgratuitous sex and violence to try spicing it up.The two men especially are the two poles that hold up the tent forthe heroine to do her trapeze act - and they are totally flat.The Gen-X punkette/comic relief is wasted - she was socompletely disconnected from the rest of the picture that she mightas well do her scenes from inside a fishtank.Oh, and did I mention the totally gratuitous Texas-bashing?  Howwould the story be any different if it were set in Westchester Countyor North Hollywood?  Geez!Don't waste your money on this one - stick with Ghostworld andAmerican Beauty. "}{"Title":"Candide Americain?","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps not; but the message I took away from this movie was much the same as I got from Voltaire's book - Life may not be great, but it's what we've got; so get on with it.Of course it comes at it from a completely different perspective; and for a 21st century American audience, Holden Caulfield is probably more accessible than Leibnitz; but the theme is similar Passion is overpublicised and has a sell by date; friendship and children are timeless.Structurally, I thought the drabness was a bit overplayed and the action could have moved faster but, all in all, I enjoyed it; and I particularly enjoyed seeing Jennifer Aniston in a movie that allowed her to exercise some acting chops.And the rest of the cast were uniformly good too, with particular kudos to John C. Reilly as JA's husband and John Carroll Lynch as the store manager.My suspicion is that it was a flop because (a) its message was one nobody really wants to hear, and (b) JA wasn't her usual perky self.But you know what? We all have to grow up sometime. Which is kind of what the movie's all about... "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Good Girl was a movie I just happened on. After watching it, I took Jennier Aniston completely seriously as an actress. This movie goes beyond what I had expected from it. There are a few reviews that claim she was evil and despicable by doing what she did - but I find her to be realistic. She wanted to escape her monotonous life, wanted to make something, and wanted to dream. Holden represented this unhinged dream. She hated everything in her life, and so did he. But the two, unfortunately for both, had different limits. His passion was boundless, with large ideas that he could likely never achieve. Her passion was a dream, and became far too real as she began to live it out. I found every single choice made by her in the film to be a realistic one. I believe I see myself in her character a lot, and that might be why I love the movie so much. She was willing to sacrifice a lot to hold onto her dream while she could, but when things became too real, she backed out, realizing she prefers the comfort of the monotony over the 'wilderness' that was Holden. Loved it! "},{"Title":"Hard decisions... and blackberries","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mostly memorable for Jennifer Aniston's lead performance, 'The Good Girl' offers the Golden Globe actress perhaps her finest acting hour, cast here as an unhappily married store clerk who sees life passing her by. The promise of something new, exciting and different comes in the form of a much younger coworker who fancies her, but is there really a possible 'happily ever after' scenario for them? And does she really love him or simply what he represents with his championing of 'The Catcher in the Rye' and ramblings about defying social norms? Their affair eventually leads to a fork in the road in which Aniston is forced to make a choice and her decision, while perplexing at first, seems simply inevitable in retrospect. The film is well acted by not only Aniston, but also a stellar supporting cast including Jake Gyllenhaal, Zooey Deschanel, 'Zodiac''s John Carroll Lynch, John C. Reilly and Tim Blake Nelson, and yet, the film does not quite have the same effect upon revision. The script relies heavily on elements of surprise for impact and none of the twists (other than Aniston's choice at end) have that much power once one knows they are coming. The philosophical voice over narration also seems to spell about a bit too much, especially concerning Nelson's character, upon revision. Aniston's internal strife resonates either way though, and her down-to-earth performance ensures that the film is engaging the whole through. 'The Good Girl' might not be a flawless film, however, if nothing else it will make you think twice before eating blackberries again! "},{"Title":"great role against type for Aniston","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Justine Last (Jennifer Aniston) is a 30 years old worker at a discount store and tired of her life. Her husband Phil (John C. Reilly) is always smoking weed with his friend Bubba (Tim Blake Nelson). Co-worker Gwen Jackson (Deborah Rush) is her best friend. She starts an affair with young co-worker Holden Worther (Jake Gyllenhaal). Religious Corny (Mike White), manager Jack Field (John Carroll Lynch) and Cheryl (Zooey Deschanel) are the other workers.This is most notable for Jennifer Aniston breaking away from her good girl character from Friends. It's a much needed role against type and she's amazing at it. Gyllenhaal overacts a little but it's fine for his role. Justine is a great morally murky character. "},{"Title":"Better than I was expecting but I wouldn't label it a comedy","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Well this ended up being better than I was expecting as it wasn't the usual Jennifer Aniston romantic comedy (which all tend to blend together). Aniston is still another version of Rachael Green just more bored and depressed here. She does put on a great southern accent though, and outdoes herself in the wardrobe department, donning ugly sweaters and unflattering mom jeans throughout.The movie is plugged as a comedy but honestly its fairly depressing, just kinda miserable and cheerless throughout following 'Justine' a frustrated 30 year old wife and grocery store cashier who is bored, depressed, stuck in a dead end job and married to a stoner (John C. Reilly). Her life changes when she begins an affair with a co-worker, (Jake Gyllenhaal). The story didn't at all go where I was expecting it to, entering some very dark areas.Gyllenhaal does a great job here, he is young, intense and crazy. I also enjoyed John C. Reilly, as the husband, he's always the nice guy and is here too. Zooey Deschanel's character was very funny and probably the only ray of light in this. Lots of decent acting from sub characters though including John Carroll Lynch as the manager of the Retail Rodeo grocery store -which is where much of this movie takes place, the boredom and mundaneness was well represented there.A bit of a surprise hit for me. 7/5/15 "},{"Title":"Worth seeing but difficult to really like","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Anniston stars as Justine in The Good Girl, though she is far from being good in this film. Justine is bored with the monotony and lack of direction in her life. She is especially bored with her husband, Phil (John C. Reilly)--a nice but vacuous guy who'd rather smoke pot and drink beer than anything else. So does she go to her husband about her feelings of inadequacy? Nope. Instead she begins an affair with a co-worker--a disaffected goth-like guy named Holden (Jake Gyllenhaal). Of course this all ends up in HUGE complications--and what exactly these are you'll have to learn for yourself if you see this movie.This film about dissatisfaction is well made but also very different. There is no nice object lesson in the film nor are the characters particularly nice folks you could are about when their lives go out of control. It also seems to indicate that when you are in trouble, the best course of action is to lie your butt off! Additionally, horrible things happen to nice people and jerks sometimes land on their feet just fine! Obviously, this film is not one you'll want to show the kids due to these lessons...as well as the sexual behavior. If you love Jennifer Anniston and dark humor (though this isn't exactly a comedy), then the film is clearly for you. Others might find it hard to really care about the film or the characters--making it an odd but skippable curio. "},{"Title":"Just One of Those Movies","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" About a year and a half ago, around the same time that my love for movies turned into an addiction, I fell in love with IMDb and simultaneously decided that I was going to watch every Jake Gyllenhaal movie made (I happened to love him also). So when I sat down to watch this movie I really had no idea what to expect at all. What I learned over the next 90 minutes was the following 1. Jake Gyllenhaal is not the focal point in this story 2. Jennifer Aniston can be a hell of a good actress when she applies herself and 3. Sometimes good monologue is not enough to save a film. The Good Girl has all the makings of a good movie. A solid cast, an experienced director, and a gifted writer. Yet something goes awfully wrong in the movie. It aims for a sort of nonchalant humor and while it is at times funny, more often than not it is painfully boring. You might end up walking away wondering 'Why, why did I see that?' Or you might find yourself appreciating the dry bits of humor and Aniston's character's reflections on her life, or lack there of. But the way that I like to examine the viewer value of a film is to ask yourself what you took away from it. And unfortunately, just like in the movie itself, nothing much changed from start to finish except an unsatisfied emptiness that had developed in the pit of my stomach by the time the credits had arrived to say, It's Over. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Aniston Provides Excellent Performance","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Miguel Arteta and writer Mike White turn an eye toward suburban boredom with the quirky comedy The Good Girl.It stars Jennifer Aniston, Jake Gyllenhaal,John C. Reilly,Tim Blake Nelson,Zooey Deschanel and Mike White.Justine is a woman who is feeling constrained by her life. Her husband, Phil is a house painter who spends the majority of his time smoking marijuana with his friend Bubba. Longing for something more in her life, Justine becomes involved with a younger co-worker named Tom but because of his fascination with The Catcher in the Rye, he likes to be called Holden. Her new sense of freedom and release are threatened when a co- worker dies, and when Bubba learns of her infidelity.This is a warmly satisfying film about dissatisfied people seeking to escape from the personal prison of their mundane lives in soulless suburbia.It is obviously a sad, superior film played out on the back roads of life.Jennifer Aniston provides an excellent performance as she is able to expose her acting talents as she plays Justine which is a fully realized character of surprising nuance and depth.Overall,this is a great comedy is a moving and astute look at the passions of two troubled souls in a small town. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Aniston's best film","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am not a huge Jennifer Aniston fan, but she does great work in The Good Girl. Without a word of dialogue, Ms. Aniston as Justine Last communicates the despair of a woman trapped in a boring marriage, employed at a dead-end job at a Walmart-like store in a nothing small town.For a time, Justine rebels against her life Of Quiet Desperation and starts a reckless affair with Jake Gyllenhaal's character Holden Worther.Justine is on the verge of escape,but in the end chooses stability over rebellion, because she is after all The Good Girl. "},{"Title":"Somewhat engaging film but forgettable","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a married woman who is in an unhappy job and unhappy marriage. She meets a young man from work, and her life turns into an emotional turmoil.The Good Girl has a good plot that tells a woman's struggle between real life and fantasy. Jennifer Aniston is convincing as a woman who is torn between the two options. She acts well and brings her unhappy life and difficult dilemma into life. John C. Reilly is also good as a uncaring husband. Though he may love his wife, he is not good at showing it. Despite the seemingly engaging plot, the delivery of the story is not executed well. There are many scenes which leaves me unsatisfied, as if the scenes are truncated in the middle. Minor characters are also very poorly developed. They exist only for the sake of existing, and they add nothing to the story. A lot of them such as Zooey Deschanel's character can be cut out altogether without affecting the plot. In short, The Good Girl is a somewhat engaging film but I am very likely to forget about it in a few month's time. "}{"Title":"Jennifer Anistons brilliant performance.","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm sure allot of people can empathise with this film, as I'm sure all of us have felt trapped and fed up with the way our lives are going at some point or another.Jennifer Aniston plays Justine, and in my opinion gives a brilliant performance as we not only empathise but feel sorry for her as her Husband spends every night in front of the TV with his friend getting stoned. This made me understand why she started an affair with Holden - also wonderfully played by Jake Gyllenhaal. Holden comes off as a dark and disturbed character who is also fed up with the way his life is going, even though he comes off this way he is still a very likable character. All of the characters in this film seem to be frustrated and trapped in some way and that's where i think all of us can relate to the film in one way or another.Its hard to tell whether the film is a drama or a comedy. The film is very deep giving the plot of the story yet there are a few touches of humour within the film.One of Jennifer Aniston's best pieces of work and i recommend this film to a mature audience. "},{"Title":"Good Girls Don't (... but Jennifer Aniston Does!)","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Attractive thirtysomething Jennifer Aniston (as Justine Last) works in her Texas town's Retail Rodeo department store. Lumpy couch potato husband John C. Reilly (as Phil Last) is a house painter, pot smoker, and beer guzzler. Ms. Aniston is bored with her boring life. People don't get her. That changes when handsome twentysomething Jake Gyllenhaal (as Tom Holden Worther) begins working at the Retail Rodeo. Hunky Mr. Gyllenhaal dresses down, and shoots Aniston those moody, loner looks. He's reading Catcher in the Rye, after dropping out of college (normally, you read Catcher in the Rye before college). Aniston and Gyllenhaal begin an affair, which leads to disastrous results...Miguel Arteta's direction, and Aniston's focused performance, keep Mike White's story brisk. Aniston's life is definitely NOT boring, during the film's running time. Writer White also plays one of Aniston's co-workers at the Retail Rodeo - a dead-on, amazing characterization, as the Bible study guy security guard. The entire supporting cast is terrific. Keep your ears pricked for Zooey Deschanel (as Cheryl)'s pointed lines. Although, The Good Girl works, as a comedy-drama, you may not care for where the story leads the characters...The easiest alteration (without being too specific) would have been for Aniston to be shown yearning for a baby in some early scenes; this would give the film an obvious overall meaning, while retaining subtleties. I would have had Gyllenhaal and White suffer different consequences than those shown on screen; what happens to Deborah Rush (as Gwen Jackson) was enough, emotionally. The Holden conclusion could have been a fantasy. The Corny attack, coupled with a (forgivable) smack in the face (by Phil), portends a violent future for Aniston. So, the dramatic level of the story has overkill.******* The Good Girl (2002) Miguel Arteta ~ Jennifer Aniston, Jake Gyllenhaal, John C. Reilly "},{"Title":"Good, But...","Date":"23 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be very strange. I don't mean in the narrative, the style, or even the story in particular. I found the death of a certain character towards the beginning to be strange, although, to be fair, it does level out the death of another character towards the end. I also wonder whether to laugh at Holden/Tom's hysterics, or to be seriously disturbed by some of what he says. Confusion on how certain aspects of this movie are supposed to be taken, I found that I liked it. I loved the clever dialogue, coming mostly from Zooey Deschanel, although one of my favorite lines comes from the store's security guard when wished a Happy Halloween, he says I'm not a pagan. The acting is all good. I would have preferred more scenes with Deschanel. I would have liked to see some of the sadness shown in Justine and Holden to be hinted at in everyone else who worked at the store; not necessarily conscious unhappiness, but something simply buried within, something not yet realized. Still, what there is is mostly good. What keeps it from being great is some of the subject matter, whether you are supposed to laugh or be disturbed, and whether or not you actually can laugh after certain scenes. I recommend it. I just recommend that you should be aware of the rapid changes in tone and subject in the film. "},{"Title":"She's Not that Good...","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In one year alone, John C. Reilly played three cuckolded husbands. In CHICAGO he made the sad role of Amos Hart, the man who Roxie Hart famously cheated on and due to some unsavory incidents, became a celebrity. In THE HOURS, he was married to Laura Brown who was reading Virginia Woolf's groundbreaking novella Mrs. Dalloway and who discovered some secret things about herself, things his character, Dan Brown, was unaware of until Laura ran deserted him. And in this movie, THE GOOD GIRL, he found himself again on the receiving end, again caught in a predicament that became too messy for its own good. Justine Last (Jennifer Aniston) is caught in a life she doesn't want, but to which she has acclimated herself to in the Texas town where she lives with her husband Phil (John C. Reilly). She works at a dead-end job in a WalMart-like department store and moves from day to day in a daze. She can't understand the sameness of her situation and why Phil would prefer to hang out with his tick of a friend, Bubba (Tim Blake Nelson), who is always there. The arrival of a new employee, Holden Worther, a kid who keeps to himself, however, changes her life in more ways than one. While initially hostile to each other, she and he strike up a friendship that soon becomes a lot more than that. This is one of the many complications that ensue the story of the ironically titled THE GOOD GIRL, where Aniston's character is anything but. Initially, she is quite sympathetic in her grey character, but when she decides to leave her friend Gwen (Deborah Rush) to die in a hospital because she can't wait to enjoy a little more vapid time with Holden in a seedy motel, her own selfishness comes through. Of course, she does realize that there is little to no future in this affair she is having... but Holden, already an unhinged character, doesn't think so and he sets out to prove it to her. Her need to set things straight gets her in deeper and deeper waters, and at one point, she wonders if murder might be a solution.THE GOOD GIRL is quite a surprise in that like Steven Soderbergh's BUBBLE, it takes a simple situation and has it slowly build up to a point where before anyone can guess where it's going, it's already careening out of control. Placing it in a small town setting enhances the scenario of tension and projected intimacy between its characters. Because in a small town everyone knows each other, there is the constant danger of disclosure, scorn and its aftermath. Justine knows what she's gotten herself into but can't act if not to protect her own marriage. What she becomes aware of is that people in a small town have a mentality where their acquaintance comes with hidden agendas and projected desires, and in no other character can this be better pegged onto like Bubba. As sleazy and dirty as he is, he summarizes his own vicarious enjoyment of seeing the Lasts crumble as a marriage that he has placed in this imagined pedestal he's a friend (if you can call him that), but he also covets. He would want to be the one to have Justine and quietly seethes. Becoming aware of her whereabouts puts him in a heightened position of control, and he enacts all of his desires accordingly, blackmailing Justine while letting her know she can't ever tell Phil.Jennifer Aniston is far from her Rachel character in Friends as Justine. Deglamorized, speaking in a weary monotone, frumpy, walking in a graceless shuffle, she is ennui personified. Jake Gylenhaal is the type of guy anyone with a little intelligence would run towards, and then from he mixes his unnaturally beautiful looks and haunting green eyes with just the right dose of mental imbalance to create an especially intense character. John C. Reilly doesn't have much to do here, but he does has one strong scene that involves restrained violence. Zooey Deschanel has some pat but sharp scenes as a loopy co-worker with a penchant for loudness. All in all this is a quiet little movie that evolves in its own way and has several cards up its sleeve. "},{"Title":"Nicely underplayed and darkly humorous tale of a small town wife","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From the pleasingly ironic title to the spot-on central performances, this film tips a small-town life upside down and inspects, with a sardonic eye, the bleak tumbling contents. It reminds me a little of a Mike Leigh film transposed to America. The whole film's tone is very dark and dead-pan, blackly &#150; bleakly &#150; humorous, and notable for being Jennifer Aniston's great escape from the enduring hell of the doomed Friends cast. She's surprisingly good as Justine, the bored wife of the title, kicking at the bars of her cage, finding out that the door may be just turn out to be another cage. Jake Gyllenhaal is surely going to be one of the standout actors of his generation. He does another convincing job here as volatile Holden, in what is essentially a role that merely drives the plot forwards for our 'heroine'. John C Reilly is excellent in a thankless, low-key role as the doped-up unimaginative hubby. Senor Tuna, anyone? Everybody's trying to escape.This is no chick flick, and will probably only be enjoyed by those with a pretty dark or dry sense of humour. While Justine may not always be likable, she is certainly very fallible, very human. You'd have to be fairly saintly not to feel some compassion for her mounting predicaments, even while laughing, or feeling increasing detachment or even revulsion as you watch the steps she takes to overcome them. Aniston and Gylenhaal generate very feeling chemistry in their scenes together; but the tender moments give way to an increasingly sad and literal struggle for Justine to keep her head above water. There's no ultimate triumph, only a vivid sense of how far a human being is prepared to go to survive. Subtle direction, nice underplaying by the cast and a well realised sense of place, all in all a very likable, left-of-field film. "},{"Title":"It's a character actor's Hall of Fame with Jen as the curator","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let's see---we've got Norm from FARGO (John Carroll Lynch), Reed Rothchild from BOOGIE NIGHTS (John C. Reilly), Ned Schneebly from SCHOOL OF ROCK (Mike White), Delmar from O BROTHER (Tim Blake Nelson), William Miller's sister from ALMOST FAMOUS (Zooey Deschanel), and Michelle's mother but really Willow's mom (Deborah Rush) from American WEDDING. Oh, and it's nice to see the former bass player from X still getting work, but he seems to get fewer and fewer lines in movies as he gets older. Add a decent script by White, throw in pretty good performances by leads Jennifer Aniston and DONNIE DARKO himself (Jake Gyllenhaal), and you've got yourself a pretty decent hour-and-a-half movie.I laughed out loud a few times (the sperm-donor scene and Bubba trying to settle down his pooch when he gets his five minutes on top of Justine come to mind). But I really didn't know whether to be happy Justine pretty much got a free pass for all of her philandering and abetting (not to mention the aborted poisoning attempt), or feel sorry for her having what looks like a life of misery awaiting at the Retail Rodeo. You'll have to make your own call on that. "},{"Title":"Definitely NOT a good girl, nor a comedy of any kind.","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought I only hated the male mid-life crisis films like, American Beauty and About Schmidt, but no, it turns out that I am an equal opportunity hater of the life sucks then you die genre. This was not a comedy in any form. Did anyone laugh while watching this film? I have read the Catcher in the Rye and knew I was in trouble when that was the first literary reference in the film. This was not going to be an uplifting story. It was full of angst and drama, but definitely no comedy. The one possibility of comedy was killed off in the first hour of the film. The story was complex and deep. Many layers, not all were fully explored. Possible SPOILERS What kind of person cheats on her husband, starts an affair with a clearly disturbed young man, has sex with her husband's best friend (am I the only one that thought these two were having an affair of their own) to cover up her affair, BUT pays for the motel for her trysts with her husband's credit card! When she grows tired of the disturbed young man and his angst, she tells on him to his detached parents who try to ship him off to a psychiatric facility, when that fails, she tries to off him. And if that's not enough when she feels regret and stops him from possibly dying she turns him into authorities instead of running off with him and triggers the ultimate response from him. If I was more of a cynic, I would say that on some level she knew her husband couldn't give her a child and she went looking for someone who could, because when all is said and done this woman stays in the same lousy situation, with a husband who beats her (even though it is for cheating on him) only now she draws a new innocent life into her personal hell hole. Definitely NOT a good girl which I do realize was the irony in the whole story, but as far as I can see it was more than just a little gratuitous. Jennifer Aniston did give a good performance, but who cares. This was another depressing story about depressing, hopeless lives. Not at all entertaining. "},{"Title":"Technically wonderful, Story - unengaging.","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie due to Jake Gyllenhall and his excellent resume of movies. A great actor who is practically brilliant in every thing he does. I wasn't disappointed at the result although I couldn't appeal myself to the movie.The story is basically uninvolving and quite odd. I couldn't relate to anyone there and the comical elements are black and dark enough to get too much of grey matter wondering about the social circumstances.On the whole it lacks any warm or relatable emotion. The characters are all overall tragedies and are presented as such. Is this real life? The direction to present this is evident and excellently done so. Which makes me wonder what the Director and Writer was intending.The whole element and reasoning could be in the title. The Good Girl. Someone attempting to fix everything that is sworn to become broken. So does she remain good? In a climate where self interest and collective interest is at logger heads do you remain good?Who is she trying to please.Overall I couldn't admire the film as I didn't really admire the story. Many would align themselves with the technical qualities or even appreciate it all on an artistic basis. This leads me to wonder whether the Director failed or was he painting a hopeless visual effect throughout.Ultimately the acting, the direction, the whole technical aspects of a very short film are there and worth commending. While the story is very much unproductive and no real ending is brought about.Overall, is it really her husbands baby?7 rounded down from .5  "},{"Title":"Haven't our standards of what a good girl is changed just a touch?","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I guess, upon close scrutiny, small town good girls of classic films of the past weren't quite so good, either. Didn't all the trouble start when Dorothy brought her wacky dog to Miss Gulch's yard? Even in backwoods farm country, a woman shouldn't have to worry about being bitten by a stray animal, in her own home. Thinking about it, I don't know why the intriguing new Broadway musical, WICKED doesn't touch on this point.In any case, the GOOD GIRL in this rather interesting little film (and don't read the rest of this if you haven't seen it) cheats on her loyal husband, lies and tries to have her lover put away when she no longer wants him, has sex with her husband's best friend, abandons her own best friend at the hospital, allows her bible studying co-worker to get beaten up for something he had nothing to do with, sets her poor, distraught and confused young boyfriend up to do serious prison time, virtually causes her lover's suicide, and then lives happily ever after by convincing her husband that he's the father of her dead lover's baby. And yet, how could Jennifer Aniston portray anyone who isn't, at heart, a good girl? Her acting's great, by the way. You'll see a side that you didn't know she was capable of showing. I just wish I was given a better understanding of what, besides monotony, made this character so cold and callous. A three minute scene with her parents, or one or two comments about them, might have added quite a bit of insight.Honestly, this is a good film, but is this really a good girl? "},{"Title":"Goethe Classic Updated","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  So they decided to remake The Sorrows of Young Werther from Charlotte's point of view.  An interesting concept, very well executed by everyone involved.  This is not a feel-good movie and there aren't any car chases. It's a little sad but it feels very real.  Well, it's a classic plot after all! "}{"Title":"The Good Girl, the great movie.","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a great movie regardless of the angle you look at it from.The movie deals with a period of time in a person's life which I myself believe that we all have gone through from time to time, a period when we feel like everything around us is going in the wrong direction, a period when we feel like we don't belong here, like we shouldn't be where we are and we start asking ourselves, what went wrong, this isn't what I have planned for, this isn't what I had in mind, how could this have happened to me. It's that period when we begin to feel anger and hate towards the people around us, especially the close ones,And we start to wonder about what our lives could have been and should have been, and through all this one side thinking, all this seeing the whole world only through our little rounded eyes, we completely forget about what is important, we forget about all the things that we have and others don't because no matter how little and stupid things that we might have, there will be always someone out there who will be willing to give everything to have a piece of what we've got. But what's more important, we forget about the people who love and care about us.Anyone who is reading now, will probably think that this movie is dull and stupid, but it isn't, if you watch this movie, you'll find something or a lot of things that's somehow similar or related to something that have happened to you.On the other hand, the performance of Jennifer Aniston really struck me as lighting, I mean I though that she can only play the role of that spoiled girl `Rachel' in Friends, but she proved me and anyone else who thought the same that we're wrong and stupid, she plays her role like she actually lives a boring and useless life, she even walks in the movie like she doesn't care about anything around her, I think that some of the great directors and writers out there should sit around and think about giving JA a good role that will take her straight to the Oscars because believe me she will someday as long as she keeps on doing a great job like she did with this movie.All and all this is a great movie, it won't put a smile on your face at the end, but it certainly will make you think deeply and seriously about your life as it is and not as it should be, or should have been. "},{"Title":"Kudos","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a typical indie movie - substantial plot, good cast and superb location. I mean, how many times have we seen LA so this little Texan town was a nice change, especially since I love stories like these set in these typical American midwestern towns. You've seen and heard the story enough but with interesting twists and outcomes. Nothing spectacular but thought provoking enough.I give kudos to Jennifer Aniston who really de-glamed herself for this role. She made a really good effort and it shows and she really deserves all the acclaim she got for this movie. I don't think we can ignore her efforts and how hard she's trying to prove that she is worthy of praise and she is an actress, not just a TV and movie star cum movie star spouse. Brad Pitt should be proud.The wonderful John C. Reilly is no good looker but a bundle of talents. He and JA look really odd together as husband and wife but I guess that's the irony of it. You don't like him and how he treats JA as his wife - you even cheer for her affair with Jake Gyllenhall's character. As the movie goes along, you realise he's no brainer but he's not malicious and really does love his wife. It would be too much to ask to let him play the lead or hero but he will be around for a long time to come.I've been a fan of Jake Gyllenhall since I saw him in 'Moonlight Mile'. His role in this movie is not too much different; that of a tortured sole in need of salvation and found in the arms of a beautiful woman. I really hope he plays a different character next time but maybe this is his forte. Perhaps, due to his excellent acting, I felt like slapping him in the face and telling him to just lighten up and stop being so depressed! He, or rather his character, was really pathetic.   "},{"Title":"Meant to be a satire or teach a lesson?","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I began to watch The Good Girl I thought that I would like.  The humour was a little dark and offbeat.  It seemed like it was going to be a clever satire about the trials and tribulations of an unhappy, bible thumping southern wife.  I was mistaken, but not entirely.  I found this movie to be very degrading to women and the focus on her neglecting her own happiness irritated me.  She is fully aware that she hates her job, her home life and pretty much everything around.until Holden comes into the picture.  He makes her happy, open, and joyful.  He breathes life into her that she has never known before.I can understand why she feels a moral obligation to her husband, but at the same time, she seems to contradict herself constantly.  She will sneak around and cheat on him, but she won't leave him for fear of breaking his heart.  Even if it means sacrificing her own happiness. I don't like how they portrayed Holden state of mind.  It wasn't completely apparent whether they were trying to portray him as being mentally ill or if he was acting out of desperation, fighting in the name of true love. As the movie came to an end I felt an intense anger build within me.  I don't understand one bit how she could choose her c****y job, loser husband and sad life, over running away with Holden and starting anew.  Why would she turn him in and then not feel any real remorse over him killing himself!?Even though I am tempted to give it a 2, I guess I would give this movie a 5, but only because it was able to invoke such emotion from within me.  "},{"Title":"Comedy or Melodrama","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those films I like in theory much more than practice. The characters are deftly if lightly drawn, from Jennifer Aniston as a retail clerk watching life pass her by to John O'Reilly as a house painter gliding through life on reefer smoke, and the plot dashes forward from one madcap scene to another to an unexpected but satisfying conclusion. But I could not decide, while watching, whether the film wanted to be a comedy or melodrama. I certainly didn't laugh very often, nor did I feel an intense connection to any of the characters. I liked them all, found them amusing and wanted them to do well in life, but I didn't take the characters any more seriously than they took themselves, which was not seriously at all. But then, most lives hover between comedy and melodrama (mine does) so the film is true to life in this way.  "},{"Title":"Well done Jennifer","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just watched The Good Girl and About Schmidt on the same night, and The Good Girl wins no problem!  Well, written, well-paced, perfectly scored, and very well acted by Jennifer.  Well recommended for a cosy night in.  "},{"Title":"Dislikable characters, but I liked it any way","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After watching the Good Girl, I now know why Jennifer Aniston was getting a lot of praise. I'm surprised she didn't get an Oscar nomination. She was very good in this because the character is nothing like her character from Friends, and she was very convincing as the bored wife in a small town who hates her job and is depressed by her stoner husband. But, I have to say her accent was not very good. Why do these actors who have never lived in the south think everyone sounds like some slow hick.    This movie is a lot more entertaining than you think just from a quick synopsis of the plot.  Justine starts an affair with a young co-worker who becomes obsessed with her and turns out being mentally disturbed.  The decision she makes at the end about turning left or turning right was just well written and directed.  And the movie does have light laughs with the blackberries when Justing decides to buy some for Holden.  And the fact her husband is always stoned with his buddy, Bubba, watching TV. But, the part where Bubba blackmails Justine into sleeping with him was just creepy because her husband is his best friend. I just didn't get that part because I don't think the character would have done that.FINAL VERDICT  I recommend this. Don't be fooled because it doesn't have a bunch of explosions and gun fights. It is very good and a lot more entertaining than most films. "},{"Title":"Not a Bad Effort for Anniston","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Justine, ten-years married to her high school sweetheart, is stuck in a rut. She lives with her housepainter, stoner husband in their small hometown in Texas where she works as a clerk at the Retail Rodeo (a stand-in for Wal-Mart). Husband Phil is just fine with his life (who spends non-working hours stoned) but it's suffocating Justine. Her reaction to the situation is to begin a relationship with an 18-year old co-worker. She's initially attracted to him because he too is depressed about his hopeless existence. What she doesn't know is that he is also a deeply troubled young man. She finds that out soon enough as his part of the relationship becomes overly possessive, and the secret relationship begins to become public.Jennifer Anniston plays Justine and proves that she possesses greater acting depth than we've seen in Friends. John C. Reilly as her husband and Tim Blake Nelson as his best friend really nail their characters. The weak link acting-wise is Jake Gyllenhaal as the troubled love interest whose performance seems one-dimensional. As his is a key character, this drags on the movie, but the others keep it afloat.The Good Girl is a pretty-good movie. It was not good enough to garner award scrutiny, but is worth the price of a rental. It'll be interesting to see if Ms. Anniston continues to take non-comedic roles in movies such as this. I hope so.  "},{"Title":"Them working class people talk real slow","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  And, uh, they ain't all that, uh, bright either.What a beautiful film. A lot of times I have the unfortunate experience of going to the movies and actually having my smug, conventional middle-class view of the world somehow challenged by what I see up there on screen. Oh, the uneasiness never lasts for all that long but just the fact that it sometimes does happen makes me want to swear off these 'moving pictures' forever.Thankfully, there was no risk of that with The Good Girl. All of the working class characters in the film can barely string a couple of sentences together and even when they do, it's usually a banal platitude or a shopworn cliche. Better yet, the one uppity prole who dares to read a book in the film gets his comeuppance at the end and I cannot think a better lesson to teach the working class of America.No, this film pretty much confirmed everything that I already suspected. People in the middle class are there because they're, well, smarter. Thank you Mike White and thank you for your excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Difficult to explain but good","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie really started off slow.  Almost to slow.  Now I'm not usually one to say that a movie is slow(heck I loved Donnie Darko and that one took a while to get going), but this one really started of slow.  There were several characters who started to develop only to have it stop.  For instance; Gwen.  What was the point in killing off her character?  She obviously knew what was going on between Justine(Aniston) and Holden(Gyllenhaal), then of course you had the 'other' strange girl come over and she knew what was going on,  any way.Anistion shied away from the normal 'safe' roles she usualy plays.  A huge example would have to be her sex scene(the one in the motel).  Gyllenhaal gives an okay performance as a 'disturbed' 22 y/o.  He has been doing several movies now that keep him sort of in that transition fase between 'teen' actor and 'break out' actor.  This was not his transiton film(Moonlight Mile was).I'll give it a good recomendaiton to family and friends but probably wouldn't buy it my self. "},{"Title":"Passafist Reviews The Good Girl","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes a film can have a performance in it that is so good, and yet in the end you find yourself asking,  `What's the Point?'  That's the way I felt sitting through Michael Arteta's (Star Maps) THE GOOD GIRL, a film with one great character and many unrealized ones.Jennifer Aniston (Picture Perfect) plays Justine, a clerk at a local Wal-Mart type store somewhere in west bumblefreak Texas.  It's a small town where everybody knows your name, and more than likely everybody knows what your up too.  When Justine begins to have an affair with a local boy named Holden (Jake Gyllenhal, Donnie Darko) Justine's life begins to unravel.THE GOOD GIRL is a good movie.  It has some heart and it has some really good laughs.  It is also has a nice small town feel to it.  Everything has that lower middle class waffle house look, and of course in any other film I'd expect a satirical look at this world, where all the characters are too big for their britches, but there is enough authenticity here that gives the film a strong visual feel.Jennifer Aniston is wonderful as Justine.  It's miles away from anything she's ever done before.  This A-List Hollywood actress gets frumpy, without looking out of place.  Every one of her character arcs is full and realized and in the end it's a gut wrenching performance without her having to go over the top.There is a tendency in Hollywood films to play every horrible revelation in a melodramatic fashion.  This film is full of death, birth, love, and humiliation and everything is understated. This works for the film when they concern the lead character. Those beats are powerful and strong. It's when the subplots of the story branch off into the bizzaro world of the minor characters that I felt the movie lost its credibility.   A character dies in the film on a note that felt fake and we soon learn that it was designed to emphasize a joke at the very end of the movie, that isn't very funny.  I also didn't appreciated the, I won't tell your husband sex scene that also branched off into a world of stupidity.    Much of the problems with those scenes are that while Justine's character is fully realized none of the supporting cast seems to be.  Ghyllenhal's Holden has two modes, over-stated and understated and they never quite gel.  While he does a good job with his character his moods are motivated not by true character but by plot developments.  I wish the screenplay by Mike White (Chuck and Buck) had played with the `Catcher and the Rye' character they kept alluding too.  But alas he felt half-realized and that's a shame.Also John C. Rielly (Chicago) and Tim Blake Nelson's (Oh Brother Where Art Thou) Bubba and Phil are also half realized.  Two characters whom you wanted so much more from than sperm problems and silly infatuations.  I really wanted to know more how these guys ticked, but alas most of what they gave back was underwhelming.My final beef with the film is it's unbearably slow, and the end is kind of a let down.  There's a perfect moment where Justine is at a crossroads it's a really great climax, and when she makes that final decision and the film goes on for 15 more minutes.  Why?  To try to tie thins up. I wished they had left them dangling.Yes I have may problems with the Good Girl but I still think it's a good film, if anything to prove Jennifer Aniston could have a career past FRIENDS.  Let hope she keeps making films like these.  But she probably won't.***1/2 (Out of 5) "}{"Title":"Good performances, average writing","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While not without its flaws, this film does have many favorable points that overshadow those flaws. Its biggest asset is the acting from the leads on down to the smaller roles, there is not a single performance in the film that comes off as forced or ungenuine. Aniston's quiet desperation is a perfect foil for both Gyllenhaal's intense bipolarism and Reilly's clueless self-satisfaction; Nelson, whose character, Bubba, starts out seeming like a leering, sexist pig, allows the viewer to see Bubba's hidden depths, as a man who has spent his whole life watching his best friend get all of the things he's always wanted for himself--and quietly resents him for it; Zooey Deschanel provides the laughs as Cheryl, a fellow Retail Rodeo clerk who alleviates her boredom and dissatisfaction by tormenting her customers and boss with her sarcastic wit; and as the doomed Gwen, whose death provides the movie with one of its most pivotal moments, Deborah Rush exudes a cheeriness and optimism that endears her to the viewer, even as it gets on the nerves of the other characters in the film. Only film writer Mike White, who appears as security guard / Nazarene bible study leader Corny, hits a few wrong notes, playing his character as a stereotypical annoying bible-thumper who believes that even the biggest disasters are God's will and should be celebrated. One gets the feeling that he is trying to parody the stereotype, but if so, he falls well short of the goal. The smugness and self-righteousness of the character is enough to make the viewer cheer when he receives his rough (if somewhat undeserved) comeuppance in the end. In terms of writing and direction, the film is average. Usually, really good films do one of two things they either provide the viewer with an entertaining escape from the cares of their everyday lives, or they offer wisdom or some new observation about life. This film does neither. It is unrelenting in its depressive feel; even the glimmers of humor sprinkled throughout are derived from the characters' depression and loneliness. While it is good at conveying the story of one woman's attempt at breaking through the barriers of her life, it presents her, in the end, with a choice that is just as confining as the life she wants to escape she can either doom her character to a non-existence as mother and wife and retail clerk, or she can doom her character to a non-existence as mother and lover and fugitive from the law. Either way, she no longer retains her status as The Good Girl, because if she does stay, the news of her affair with her co-worker will haunt her forever; indeed, you get the feeling, in the end, that the only person in whose eyes she'll be elevated is the sarcastic Cheryl. The futility of life has been presented in other films before; the difference being, in this film, the viewer has actually been led to care deeply for this character, and wants to see her end up with something more. The fact that she doesn't--that she CAN'T--makes the viewer feel more than a little cheated. Despite this flaw, however, the script is heartfelt, and the characters (with the above-noted exception of Corny) so real that you feel like you know them intimately. Arteta's direction and pacing never lets the story slow down or become mired in its own quagmire of self-importance. Perhaps, if this film hadn't been touted as a comedy, then it wouldn't have been such a letdown to watch it and see it for what it really is a well-acted romantic drama about people headed for their own personal dead ends. "},{"Title":"Good acting can't save poor screenplay","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main problem with this movie is the screenplay . . . the almost non-existent character development makes it difficult to empathize with anyone, resulting in a rather ho-hum, uninvolving movie. The actors do the best with what they're given, but the screenplay is too horrid to be saved by the cast. For an example of a similar type of drama that really works because of a superb screenplay and excellent acting, watch You Can Count On Me starring Laura Linney, Mark Ruffalo and Matthew Broderick. "},{"Title":"Surprised by this film....","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I take it in turns choosing rented movies. Her choice this week was The Good Girl. (I sloped away from the DVD shop woefully expecting some crappy Romcom) I was surprised that it was far from a comedy or vaguely romantic. I believe alot of people could relate to the story of forgotten aspirations, stuck in a downward monotonous cycle or everyday life and repetitiveness. I remember turning the TV off after the movie and thinking how depressed i felt. Top marks for the film making but i wouldn't recommend this for light viewing.Roll on next week, my choice is Gangs of New York (Back to guns and violence) "},{"Title":"very interesting movie... funny yet touching","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie was less of a comedy than i expected.  the plot was really good... except the ending!  it would have been perfect if Justine just chose to go with Holden when he was waiting for her to come to the hotel by 12 noon.  she even closed her eyes and looked into the future... and was saying how the unknown highway was beautiful.  but then she goes and turns in the guy that loves her!  Sheesh.  i guess if she chose holden, then she wouldn't be The Good Girl anymore.  well they could have changed the name of the movie!  like to Country hicks find an escape.  -Pwell i guess the point was that holden was a disturbed young man (even in all his stories, the boy dies)... so it was almost expected that he ends up killing himself.  and in the end Justine's baby was Holden's so in a way he lives on.  some of the scenes were so intense that it sent chills down my spine.  or maybe it's just Jake's great acting.  )  Overall the movie was very good, just the right length... the bad ending made me give it a lower rating.  i'd recommend it to everyone.  i've never liked Aniston, but she did a good job in this movie.  Sorry for all the spoilers.  i usually just write about a movie after viewing it, so that i can look back on it in the future and actually remember something about the movies i've seen.   "},{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mike White's The Good Girl is a brilliant Independent film about a discount store clerk in Texas who is married to a loser and has an affair with a younger co-worker. The plot seems familiar, but the performances (from Jennifer Anniston, Jake Gyllenhaal, Zooey Deshanel, and John C. Reilly) and the script make it worth while for anyone who loves movies. I was skeptical at first, considering Jennifer Anniston only as Rachel Green, but she turned in a wonderful performance that, in my opinion, should have been nominated for the Academy Award. Other snubs from this movie are Best Supporting Actor (Jake Gyllenhaal) and Best Original Screenplay (Mike White). Over all, The Good Girl gets a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"comedy? I think not!","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has a good cast, Jake Gyllenhaal is a good talent (best seen in Donnie Darko), he plays the 'strange wierdo' well. However Jake, John Reilly and Jennifer Aniston are not enough to save this sad, pathetic film. There are two funny parts in the film, this does not qualify it as a comedy! The plot is not original which does not always matter but this is not even interesting! The film is predictable and the only reason I watched it to the end was in a desperate hope that I was wrong and it would astound me. I remained bored! I submitted to a piece of critical acclaim and a pretty girl when choosing what film to watch, don't make the same mistake.   "},{"Title":"Not a very good girl","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed Jennifer Aniston's performance in this film as much as anyone else. But her character was not anyone you could really like. Overcome by small-town ennui, she finds her salvation in a slutty affair. She constantly makes bad decisions which will obviously cause pain to many others. Justine is not an evil girl, but she is a bad one. The rest of the no-name cast did fairly well, too. The actor with the strange Welsh name, who played Holden/Tom, was intensely annoying, but I believe that's what his role called for. Grade B- "},{"Title":"Eh....","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER I thought this movie was okay.  I loved the beginning and adored the premise of being trapped in a dead-end everything and depressed.  The witty dark humor lines made me chuckle and I felt for the characters.  But the end is what bugged me.  I was enjoying Holden's character until they made him so crazy.  We all knew he was weird but they made him so insane.  Also, that has got to be one of the most depressing endings I have ever seen. Justine ended up the same way she started except she had a baby.  I give this movie 5/10 because of Jennifer Aniston's wonderful acting and the good beginning. Other than that this movie will have no effect on me.  "},{"Title":"A Worthwhile Life After Friends","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is often difficult to watch films with talent who are better known for other roles. A television role makes that even harder for the viewer. After watching Jennifer Aniston in many like-minded average roles, here she goes pushing the boundaries of her talent. The Good Girl is not for everyone, due to its independent nature, but due to its top-billed name talent, many will feel the urge to pick it up off the video shelf. For any discriminating viewer this would be a wise choice. The film is well-made on many levels and is reminiscent of additional pleasant drama film experiences. It has Sling Blade pacing, modeled after the characters most likely, and some of the same themes, as something like A Walk on the Moon, American Beauty or several others. Interestly, though, this film is predictable. This would normally be a drawback, but I found it merely proof of how endearing the characters and situations were. I found myself predicting events or even pieces of dialogue, yet was pleased that I was right. Thanks to the performance of the now more than ever free from the constraints of Friends Ms. Aniston and the supporting players, we have another intelligent drama to sink our teeth into. "},{"Title":"Did I actually stay awake?","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did not fall asleep during this movie, not because of all the action or interesting characters, but because the plot was so weird that I had to keep myself awake to really see what would happen next.Everyone in the movie is just so blahh and really gives you the feeling of being no-where and wanting to escape.  If this movie did not have Jennifer Aniston in it then it would have been a horrible movie.  She is so attractive that at least you can look at her and make it through the movie.  o) "}{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *CONTAIN'S SMALL SPOILERS* This movie is very good, but depressing in multiple parts.  Justine Last (Jennifer Aniston) is a small town girl working at the retail rodeo.  She is depressed by her life and her pot smoking husband, Phil (John C. Riley.) She notices a young man working in the store, who likes to be called Holden (Jake Gyllenhal) because of Holden in Catcher in the Rye.  She ends up having an affair with Holden, sneaking around, and eventually getting pregnant.  This is very well written and Jennifer Aniston does a wonderful job of portraying a character so different from her role of Rachel on Friends.  I suppose I am favoring her in a way, because I think she is the greatest, but it is really a great movie, even though it is depressing in many areas. "},{"Title":"'Rye' humor and gloom","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  Director Miguel Arteta has a mostly TV background and it shows from a technical aspect.  However, his teaming with writer Michael White (Orange County and he plays Corny, the bible studying security guard in this movie) make for some decent filmmaking.  Jennifer Aniston is still trying to make the jump from her worn out role on Friends to big screen star.  She has had some good ones (this role and Office Space) and a big miss (Rock Star).  With Bruce Almighty due out soon, this could be the turning point for her film career.  The amazing John C. Riley, who I believe was in every movie made in 2002, plays the role of decent guy husband who just doesn't seem to get his wife's stuck-in-the-rut mood.  Tim Blake Nelson (O Brother Where Art Thou Minority Report) turns in a nice role as Bubba, John C. Riley's partner, best friend, and wife coveter.  Make no mistake, the star of this one is Jake Gyllenhaal (brilliant in Donnie Darko and look for him as a kid in City Slickers).  Jake explodes on the screen as Holden (his assumed name from Catcher in the Rye - the theme for all disenchanted youngsters).  Not sure what the future holds for Gyllenhaal (brother of the fantastic Maggie from Secretary).  His unique look and sullen manner may make adult casting quite difficult.  Catch this one because it is a little gem.  Not much hype, but a wonderful story with believable performances capturing the pain of everyday life. "},{"Title":"Good acting, depressing film","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie over the weekend, and was impressed with the acting by Jennifer Aniston, Jake Gyllenhal, and the rest of the cast.  I found the characters and the story believable enough, but the movie was just so damn depressing.  I feel like I need to watch something really funny to counteract this movie. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmmmmmm...","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS.Just a few notes1.) The title is ironic folks.  Jennifer's character does bad things and it hurts a lot of people who, incidently, aren't so nice themselves.2.) It was much too self-aware to be a good black comedy.  The voice overs were too derivative of Raising Arizona (magniloqunet words in a heavy southern accent).3.) It was too hard to sympathize with either Anniston's character or Holden.  The later was too annoying (even to the point where I began to enjoy the writer's obvious attempt to reveal him as the horrible writer that he really was--rather than root for him) and the former was unable to garner the sympathy needed to cheer for her to break free of her mundane life. Maybe it's just that most of us, in fact, lead mundane lives ourselves, and realize that such existances make the world go round, and thus get tired of the constant criticism of it.  (Imagine if everyone that conducted the day-to-day business of society decided to be special)4.) There were a few funny moments the other female clerk with her wry, irreverant commentary that is slipped in without warning or pause, the remark by the store manager after Holden's death that he was a thief and a distrubed young man and that what we should learn form all this is not to be a theif or be disturbed, and the part where the dog rips the sheet away from Bubba ( I laughed out loud at that). "},{"Title":"Too much hype because of Jennifer Aniston","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Overall this movie wasn't all that good. It bugs me that it received so much hype all because Jennifer Aniston was in it. Local television news covered the premiere. If Parker Posey played Justine the only recognition this movie would get would be at the Independent Spirit Awards. Maybe independent features have become to media oriented. It's pretty sad. "},{"Title":"Safe Script Chosen For A Mousy Debutante 'Actress'.","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We are to regard it as intentional to the film that everything is compressed, flattened and banal in this town, Justine herself being the prime example. In actuality a script was chosen for Jennifer's first outing that would not require anything bigger than life from her.  A safe first venture.And she better keep on with scripts of the kind as I doubt this mouse of an actress will ever successfully portray anything other than a mouse of a girl.  "},{"Title":"The Good movie","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about a woman. Thirty years old, she is full of vivacity, energy, life in a world that is bleak, dismal and crushing. She works in a dead end job and a lifelessly fluorescent store, is married to a man who paints houses by day and gets stoned by night, and has only one friend, who irritates the living daylights out of her. She is headed towards depression, divorce, and damnation until she meets a kindred spirit who has vivacity enough to match hers. This movie is not a comedy, but is rather one of the most real dramas about decisions, depression, and life that has ever been brought to film. Many won't like this movie for its brutal bluntness and cold demeanor, but for those who can appreciate the horror of dying with lives unlived, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"The Mediocre Girl (Contains Small Spoilers)","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is what's called an actor's movie. That is to say that it's great for the actors involved, who get astoundingly good scenes to work with, and they all do outstanding jobs with what they have. But there are four major problems with the film that prevent it from being anywhere near as good as people claim.The first is that Jennifer Aniston's character, Justine, completely lacks any kind of motivation in getting from scene to scene. Her performance is excellent, but the movie seems to give her only one motivation for doing some of the things she does it's in the script. I can be thankful that this is a breakout theatrical role for her, but this should have been a lot better.The second is the lack of accountability that any of the characters have. Nobody is held responsible by the end of the movie, and it gets to the point where we see Justine for what she really is, and we may find her despicable for it. At the end, I knew I was supposed to be happy for her and like her, but for the life of me I just couldn't figure out why.The third is that the comedy aspect of the movie is woefully misplaced. The movie is so ineptly written that almost none of the punchlines are at least played for punchlines; the movie seems to be so in love with how clever it is that it's sitting there, snickering to itself, while the rest of us are going I'm supposed to laugh here, right? Doubly problematic is that some of the characters are too complex for the kinds of jokes being made at their expense. Many of the gags seem in poor taste when they arrive, and we just don't laugh. As someone who found Very Bad Things, The Rules of Attraction and it's kin American Psycho absolutely hilarious, it speaks volumes that I just can't laugh at how bad these situations are.Finally, in depicting a boring world populated with boring people, the movie does an admirable job being as boring as possible. And there's your paradox how do you show something's boring without making it boring?See it once just for the sake of seeing it, but don't expect anything as mindblowing as people claim it is. "},{"Title":"Aniston, Reilly and Deschanel Are the Only Things to Recommend Here","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It doesn't seem to be a coincidence that Holden Worther (Jake Gyllenhaal) effectively sees himself as an incarnation of Holden Caulfield from J.D. Salinger's Catcher in the Rye, while being utterly incapable of writing a single original idea.  Screenwriter Mike White apparently has much the same problem, relying instead upon well-worn caricatures -- bubbas, evangelical Christians, etc. -- and attempts at creating an atmosphere that are borrowed directly from much better films, like The Last Picture Show or Paris, Texas.Two of the critical supporting performances aren't any better.  Gyllenhaal in particular is annoying and one-note, giving absolutely no indication as to why his character is so disaffected (simple shots of his unspeaking parents sitting on the couch is both cliched and inadequate).  Instead, he comes off as nothing more than a whining, narcissistic, self-pitying loser.  Indeed, its a wonder that Aniston's character doesn't cold cock him and Tim Blake Nelson (who is equally ineffective as a creepy hypocrite named -- surprise, surprise -- Bubba) half way through the film.The only real merits of the film lie in good performances from Aniston, playing against type (although hardly Oscar-worthy), Reilly (doing wonders with a criminally underwritten part), and Zooey Deschanel (who could teach Gyllenhaal how to play a disaffected youth without being whiny and utterly unsympathetic).  If you like any of these three actors, you might want to catch this film.  Otherwise, stay away at all costs. "},{"Title":"Good performances by all","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was an excellent movie, well written and well acted.  It describes the problems we all face with questioning our existence and whether we are getting out of life what we can as well as what our legacy might be.  Jennifer Anniston shows she has real talent, not just the Friends nonsense.  Having seen this movie, I'm surprised she's staying for another season of Friends.  I guess it's the money. "}{"Title":"engaging, thought-provoking","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title of this movie kind of sounds like a cheesey horror flick doesn't it? This is the movie that has been touted as the film that proves Jennifer Aniston can act. Duh, I always knew she could act. The whole cast of Friends have to be good actors to be that consistently funny.We are introduced to Justine, poor Jennifer Aniston, looking at the world through her doleful gaze. She has a dead end job in the Retail Rodeo, a scaled down Texan Walmart or Kmart, and has to go home to loser husband Phil (John C. Reilly, the quintessential loser husband these days). One day Justine gazes into the sad eyes of the new cashier Holden, a pretentious literati played by Jake Glyenhall, and they soon hook up in the belief that they are the only ones that truly understand each other.The story moves along at a purposefully slow pace, attempting to capture the dreariness Justine and the rest of the Retail Rodeo's crew feel about their unfulfilling lives in a backward community. The rest of the crew is actually an interesting assemblage of personalities-the hyper and uppity head of cosmetics who doesn't have anything to be happy about but smiles through the day anyway, the Bible Study advocating security guard, the goth-type teenager that insults customers over the P.A. system without losing a beat. The film gives audiences an unexpected payoff in the end that leaves one wondering what happened, but nevertheless wishing the characters the best.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good and genuinely low key","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a very strong all-round effort (although I wouldn't go as far as to say it was brilliant), with Jennifer Aniston finally shrugging off Rachel, to move to second place in the Friends On The Big Screen chart - behind Lisa Kudrow, obviously, whose performance in The Opposite Of Sex sets the bar very high.  I tip my hat to Aniston here, as this isn't a pseudo-indie film which some high-profile actors use to get some street cred; I'm not sure who financed it (and maybe it was a big studio), but it was certainly indie in spirit, as can be gleaned by the look of the film, its subject matter and by looking at the cast list Mike White (Mr Chuck & Buck), Zooey Deschanel, the guy who played Fances McDormand's husband in Fargo, etc.Anyway, the whole cast of The Good Girl did good work here - I especially enjoyed Zoey Deschannel as the attitudinous Cheryl.  She provided my favourite line, the slightly indistinct F*** you very much to a customer, repeated as Thank you very much - great stuff! "},{"Title":"Excellant Drama, Excellant Comedy","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"     This movie is one that really shows the abilities of Jennifer Aniston and Jake Gylanhaal.  This movie was awesome.  It is one of my favorites and as soon as I saw it, I went out and bought the DVD.  It is one of the few films that are able to be both a drama and a comedy.  It is one that is touching and sad enough to make you want to cry but then you will be rolling on the floor laughing.  It is a serious, realistic movie that knows how to be hilarious but not go over the top.  It makes you laugh at everyday things.  I love the way that it looks, too.  The colors are awesome.  It takes place in Texas but it does not over due it on the acting or dialects and stuff.  Jennifer was great, also.  I can tell that she tried hard to really get into her character.  This was a film and a part that really meant something to her, not just another chance to use her fame from Friends to score big bucks at the box office.  I think that you should really check this movie out.  It is one that I really think you will enjoy.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Quality Rating B+","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Discount store employee stuck in a dead end job and marriage finds one last chance for happiness in the arms of a younger, but unbalanced co-worker. Aniston turns in a performance of brilliant simplicity and the films captures it's atmosphere and enviroment dead on. However, the ending is a bit too much. "},{"Title":"A great film, and a dirty trick","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved The Good Girl. I thought it was one of the best of the year.  But I get this added bonusSee, I work in a video store, and I love renting it to unsuspecting chick flick enthusiasts, expecting a mindless nights drivel, and then I get the delight of having them come back shocked and upset because oh it was nothing like i expected.  she's not a good girl, and it wasn't anything like 'picture perfect' starring her and kevin bacon.no, no one expects for one second that it will be a human story, with characters, and genuine wit and insight, but it's great to see the confusion in their eyes.   "},{"Title":"Quirky, odd, and wonderful.","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Girl is one of those quirky odd little stories that make indie films so special and uniquely entertaining, like Lawn Dogs or You Can Count On Me. Quirky and odd, but, at the same time, so real and so honest. Jennifer Aniston does a splendid job but so does everyone else in the cast. In fact, I wish the movie had been longer because I wanted to know more about the other characters, which is another way of saying the actors did a good job of fleshing out their parts. The Good Girl is a drama with some funny moments...as life also presents some funny moments....but it is not a comedy. Miguel Arteta does a splendid job by allowing the story to unfold without forcing the comedy angle. Good job! "},{"Title":"It's A Head Scratcher!!!","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston...Excellent!  John C. Reilly...Excellent!  Movie...Mind numbingly boring!!!  I think Jake Gyllenhaal needs to find a more suitable role, this is the first movie I have seen of his and I am sure it was a step up from BubbleBoy, but my god...what was the point. (Spoilers)Please explain to me the point of Gwen dying, The woman who entered the picture near the end (was she Bubba's girlfriend?) Was the baby a boy or a girl? Talk about confusion...I adore Jennifer Aniston and think that she is an excellent actress, but this movie did nothing for her.I am not one to give advice, but if I can prevent one person from having to waste 2 hours of their life sitting through this drab and dreary waste of film, I will...WATCH WITH CAUTION. 0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"well-acted black comedy","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slight, somewhat obvious story, redeemed by good performances and a sly sense of humor.  If Jennifer Aniston's acting here isn't a revelation, it's only because the role isn't a showy one.  She's beautifully understated as Justine, and every gesture contributes to her portrait of a not-very-interesting character bewildered by how not-very-interesting her life has become.  She's a real actress, all right.  Everybody else is good too, especially John C. Reilly and Jake Gyllenhaal in key roles; it's really a cast with no weak links.Mike White's script is a far cry from `Chuck and Buck.'  As cultural analysis (and as drama), it's about as profound as a Lifetime Original Movie.  The characters are quite broad, the plot is more than a little predictable, and the ending is terribly pat.  But the movie also has a blackly comic edge that only gets sharper as Justine's self-created predicament spirals out of control.  This, and the lovely acting, make it definitely worth a watch.  7.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good, not Great","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How many movies can John C. Reilly be in this year?  He is ubiquitous these days, which is good, because he's always a pleasure to watch and this film is no exception.  Jennifer Aniston's performance is, of course, the one most talked about because she is not Rachel Green in this film (as she is in most every other film she appears).  Here, she is blase and subdued, but not necessarily interesting or compelling.  It's hard to categorize this film, but I guess it belongs more in the black comedy family than in drama.  I was unmoved by the dramatic aspects of this, but there is a fair amount of wry humor that makes the movie worth seeing.  Jennifer is such a treat for the eyes that I could watch her doing gardening videos, but even if you're not a fan, the movie is quirky and dry enough to be entertaining.  Worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"not a comedy","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS The Good Girl is not a comedy, not even blackly, but it is a realistic, finely crafted film far from the standard Hollywood formula one might expect.  It is not only not a comedy, but it is quite tragic as the story organically develops from a woman of limited intelligence and future, getting involved with a young magnetic co-worker, jeopardizing her rather boring married life.  The kid played by the charismatic Jake Gyllenhaal calls himself Holden, after Caulfield, and seems like just the dark knight to carry Justine away from her dumbs**t husband and dumbs**t Texas town, but his personality is slowly revealed and developed from immature to unbalanced.  The ending is as satisfying as it is disturbing.I suppose it's a good thing that the studio/distributor trumpets this film as a comedy featuring a big TV comedy star and thereby draw people into this realistic drama that wouldn't ordinarily be interested in such a dark, claustrophobic and almost nightmarish world that ultimately becomes a feminist tale of desire, need, and hard choices.  A fine, three-dimensional performance from Jennifer Aniston worthy I think of an Oscar nomination. "}{"Title":"Well done aniston!","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Small town melodrama, with Jennifer Aniston giving her best performance so far. This movie is filled with acute sadness and a quiet desperation that life never changes, that is compelling and sympathetic. There's also some well-placed dark humour. At times haunting, the best scene is when Aniston's character says (to paraphrase) I know you hate this world, I do too... "},{"Title":"well.........","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  if you are looking for a drama or comedy movie. then, you should choose another one. i don't know how to begin to describe this movie. this movie is about a girl who is bored with her life and later cheat on her husband with other guy. however, the problems come up and she gets into many troubles. the story sounds okay, doesn't it? but there is one problem. it is that i don't care about the main actress. thought the whole movie, i didn't feel anything at all except feeling bad for her husband. i mean if you want us to get excited or interested about the movie,  COME ON...... at least you have to make us care about the characters but this movie didn't do it. i like the actors(JA, jake and reilly), their acting were good but i just don't like this movie. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The Good Girl a good film about a not so good girl","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston really showed me something in this film.  I wondered how she could win Golden Globes or Emmys for her performance as Rachel in Friends.  She starts to show her acting chops in this film though.  Her accent, her walk, her look of gloom about her life, were all very convincing.Jake Gyllenhal (sp?) was very good as the unstable Holden.  John C. Reilly is always good.  The film took a couple of odd twists and turns, but was a solid 7/10. "},{"Title":"Rather dull","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think the only reason people are inclined to like this movie so much is because it's independent.  Just because it's independent doesn't necessarily make it good.I almost turned the movie off after the first half because I was bored to death.  But I really wanted to like this movie, because the acting so far was good and it seemed to have a certain amount of depth to it.  But it was pretty boring...and on top of that, besides Phil -- the stoner husband -- all of the characters were downright unlikable.  When the protagonist is just so unlikable and you want to slap her, it's kind of hard to watch the movie.I felt uncomfortable throughout the duration of the movie because I felt like I should have been laughing but I wasn't.  I turned the movie off feeling angry and unsatisfied.  Justine (portrayed well by Aniston) treated her husband like crap, and I felt like the audience was supposed to pity her...but I didn't.  She kept painting herself into corners, and I didn't like her at all.  And seeing Delmar from O Brother Where Art Thou (as Bubba) naked has permanently scarred me.I give this movie a 5/10.  I'd recommend it for Reilly's performance...but they didn't show enough of him.  And I'd recommend it to die-hard Aniston fans so they could see her in a role departing from her Rachel.  But other than that, definitely skip it.   "},{"Title":"Funny, isn't it?","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Sunday Times once commented about the lack of versatility in the cast of Friends. How right they have been proved over the years (with the possible exception of Lisa Kudrow). When watching Band Of Brothers, you may have found it hard to believe that David Schwimmer's character was much more than Ross in a war uniform. Lost In Space could easily have been renamed Joey In Space. Well, prepare to be surprised, for the Jennifer Aniston that you see in The Good Girl bears absolutely no resemblance to Rachel. Not only that, but Aniston gives a very human performance, undoubtedly the best of her career so far.Justine Last (Aniston) is a married but repressed 30-something checkout girl looking for something new. She thinks she has found it in the form of deranged wannabe author Holden (Jake Gyllenhaal). But what can this strange kid offer her that her husband Phil (John C. Reilly) and her group of friends at the store can't? Watch this film and you may just find the answer.The Good Girl is subtle, unpredictable and often very funny, taking sly Simpsons-style observations at nuclear family life whilst exploring its central characters. It may be very much a breakthrough for Aniston, but some of the supporting cast have their successful moments too. Zooey Deschanel (looking and acting very much like Thora Birch at her best) steals every one of her scenes as Justine's co-worker Cheryl. As Holden, Jake Gyllenhaal plays to the strengths he discovered as an actor in the excellent Donnie Darko (playing a disturbed and clever young man) while in addition giving his character a rougher and less mature edge. The film tends to rely on Tim Blake Nelson (O Brother, Where Art Thou?) and Mike White (who is also the film's writer) to provide the funniest moments, with Nelson showing that his character is a bit more than a caricature.I don't know if The Good Girl will generate much widespread interest - its release has been a little too low-key for that. But it is one of the hidden treasures of the year. If Justine might not necessarily be `good', then the film definitely is. "},{"Title":"Cold","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The more i think about this movie the worse it gets.  Hollywood loves to feel superior to flyover country.  Hello!  You can't make a heartfelt movie if you hate the people.  And this had no sense of place unless it was some kind of watered down Walmart Land.Jennifer is ok, but i kept thinking how much better the movie would have been with the young Holly Hunter.  You had to CARE about this girl to care about the movie.  She just comes off as cold rather than depressed. (Just one little mistake in a host of mistakes  Jennifer  should have been packed in make-up like the funny Zooey Dischanel , not plastered in pancake in some kind of misguided attempt to make her look plain... Look Jennifer might be America's sweetheart, but she's plenty plain enough and this depressed girl working at a make-up counter would've been packing the make-up on)  I knew the film was in deep trouble when Bubba (Tim Blake Nelson) stole every scene he was in.I did not care what one other character was up to.Go see About Schmidt if you want to see a rather depressing movie that has a real genuine sense of place.  Go see the interesting failure The Salton Sea.... another real sense of place.  This movie is cold and contemptuous of its characters... How can we care if the movie does not love them?Ask Holly Hunter for some funny scripts, Jennifer.   "},{"Title":"pleasant surprise","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say, I went into this one a little biased, not being familiar with Jennifer Aniston on anything other than friends. I didn't know she could do anything else. I like movies I can relate to on some level, get inside the head, and feel what they might be feeling. I spent half the movie doing just that. But there were some gaps that didn't make sense. I don't understand how Phil could be so oblivious, even though he was who he was. I've met people who are ignorant, but not that far out of it. And the marriage seemed a mismatch, unless Justine had always taken what she could get, in which case I might be able to understand. Overall, there was a sense of common humanity for the every day Joe, and I enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"Better than warm milk","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The term movie can only be applied to this in the most generalised way. Not a great deal happens at first, then nothing much for a while and then it peters out. Since JA is only a step up from a soap actress I can`t really pick fault .... the acting was adequate considering the storyline but it is difficult to care about the outcome when you don`t care about the characters - especially with a subject like this. Not a comedy, not a drama, not a social commentary but elements of all, albeit badly combined. Not in any way an interest grabber but not terrible. "},{"Title":"Aniston takes her acting seriously","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston turns in a very respectable performance in her self-analytical role as small town shop assistant in a seemingly dead-end marriage, dabbling adulterously with another shop assistant who turns out to be not only played by the same actor as the lead in Donnie Darko but who has an almost identical brooding, slightly unhinged character. A good script and reasonably soul-searching performances are let down by rather pedestrian directing. The movie plays out too much like a short story and the valiant efforts of Jennifer Aniston are insufficient to give the film any memorable depth. Nevertheless it's an enjoyable watch and at no point is the movie's reach beyond its grasp. Nice. "},{"Title":"Quirky and not for everyone","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Girl hates her life. Boy hates his life. Lives intersect. Hilarity, then tragedy, ensue. Mike White borrows a lot from the quirkiness of Wonder Boys, and this movie often plays out like a trailer trash Peyton Place. But in its finer moments, it can border on poignant and thoughtful. Jennifer Aniston does a great job of playing down her intelligence and beauty, and made a smart move to play against type (After all, that got Halle an Oscar). The acting is excellent and the direction strong. This is the kind of movie that doesn't get made by the big studios, and is a good example of why indie filmmaking must continue, if we are to have any viewing options outside of J.Lo romantic comedies and Vin Diesel Blastbusters. "}{"Title":"Well-Balanced","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An indie dream team cast (including John C. Reilly, Tim Blake Nelson, Jake Gyllenhaal and Zooey Deschanel) supports a first-rate Jennifer Aniston as a desperate small-town Texas wife who takes up an affair with an affected youth (Gyllenhaal) with whom she works to disastrous results. Aniston totally immerses herself in her role and everything from her stiff gait to her short, deadpan vocal inflections perfectly conveys her suppressed rage and fears of a monotonous life. Mike White's tight screenplay (barely a word seems superfluous) is balanced by Miguel Arteta's soft, casual yet observant direction; but both carefully tread a fine line between condoning and condemning their characters' behaviors. Though there's an occasional potshot at the redneck lifestyle (it's probably to be expected), overall there's a feel of genuine affection for everyone involved that, with the understandable exception of Reilly's cuckolded husband, never descends into pity--for better or worse, everyone is forced to live with the consequences of their actions. Intelligent and satisfying.   "},{"Title":"A misunderstood film / worth further examination","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  People who berate this film and not digging deep enough to to see its true meaning. Aniston gives a wonderfully performance in her role as themoral drifter, Justine Last. Her behavior is irresponsible and herchoice are haphazard but her intentions are genuine. She wants to escapeher boring life but like all potential escapees, she thinks that she canuse her old negative behavior to spark the fire for her new beginnings.She eventually escapes in the most unlikely way. This film cannot becommented on by judging the characters harshly. Beneath the sorryfacades of these peoples lives lies the heart and soul of anybody whohas tried to better themselves without first finding out what wouldtruly be "},{"Title":"Pleasant pace for an independent film.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this was not an independent film, I would not have liked it. Perhaps I would have not tolerated the slow pace THE GOOD GIRL moves at and overlooked the various characters. But Jennifer Anniston offers a more varied role than what we usually see her in (FRIENDS) and Gyllenhaal and Reilly make exceptional performances as two of the men in Justine's life. Our movie here wields dry satire like a toy but THE GOOD GIRL suffers mostly from its own indifference in how involved the audience should be during the movie.Justine's miserable life is about to get overhauled when she meets and becomes attracted to someone more depressed than her.Should we care about the various characters when tragedies occur? We may be required to think about Justine's situation and perhaps put a perspective around the simple question what would we do in her situation? Anniston's performance is worth taking note, as is everyone else's mind you and THE GOOD GIRL, aside from the boring nature surrounding these type of movies, is a good rent. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie...","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   January 11, 2003 I just saw this movie today and I loved it. It was great to see Aniston in something other than Friends. She played the role really well and I'm surprised she didn't get nominated for a Golden Globe. The movie was really simple but it was really good. Jake Gylenhall again does great, I can't wait to see him in Moonlight Mile. 8/10    "},{"Title":"Not exactly a comedy, but very funny take on small-town life.","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some SPOILERS at the very end of this review.First I want to say I really like The Good Girl. It focuses on Justine (Jennifer Anniston) who works at Retail Rodeo, hates her job, has a toad of a house-painter husband Phil who, with his best buddy Bubba, smokes pot and gets high after work while staining the couch with not-quite-dry paint, and the local haute cuisine is Senor Tuna restaurant.  With that as a quick summary it should be obvious that the story will delve into some very funny situations, which it does. Although filmed in California, a big Texas state flag on the wall and talk of the Dallas Cowboys makes it clear where the story takes place.One reason I like the film so much is that it has a genuine feel to it. Real life can alternate from the very funny to the very tragic and back to the very funny all in one day. Real people don't talk like a David Mamet script, nor do they always make the right decision when faced with a crisis. Justine is that kind of real character. She brings her husband to bible study but, when she sees the motel clerk there quickly tells Phil, We have to go right now.  We forgot our bibles at home.  While she thinks she and the young clerk are having a discrete, secret affair, she eventually finds out that almost everyone knows about it, except her simple, trusting husband. She didn't think of the security camera in the storeroom. Or that Bubba would follow them to the motel. Does it make logical sense that Justine would fall into an affair, although reluctantly, with a mentally unstable 22-year-old clerk?  No, it doesn't. But none of Justine's existence makes sense at that point. She is trapped in a small town, in a job she hates, with a nice man for a husband who doesn't have a clue that Justine may need some attention. When she complains at one point that the TV reception is bad, he promptly gets a new antenna and fixes it, proudly asking, Did you notice that the TV is fixed?It would be wrong to say The Good Girl condones adultry. Justine didn't even want to let Holden kiss her at first, pulling away and saying I'm married, I have a husband.  Her giving in is a result of her depression, her feeling her dead-end job and her toad of a husband closing in on her. But once she crosses the line, she and the young boy are like eager rabbits.  Emotionally she wanted the relationship to continue, but her logical side knew there could be no future for them, even if she left Phil.  I suspect the whole story isn't too far from what often happens in real life.SPOILERS -- At the story's climax Justine does the right thing (good girl, film's title) by telling police where they could find Holden, who was waiting for her with the $20,000 he stole from the store's safe and his parents. Cornered, he shot himself. Justine ends up pregnant, Phil's sperm test shows him to be unable to have children, he never finds out about Holden. In the last scene it shows Justine and Phil with their baby, happy. Phil never was depicted as a bad husband, just an oblivious one. We can assume their married life turned out better, and Holden's role was a lasting one.The DVD picture, in widescreen, is very good. The 5.1 surround is mainly front sound, except for rain one time in the rears. The deleted scenes and outtakes were mildly interesting.  I didn't listen to the commentary tracks. "},{"Title":"White trash version of singles...","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though I think Jeniffer Aniston did a great job in this movie and i thought it was a gripping, realistic portrait of small town America\Canada, I thought this movie was really depressing. This movie does have a genuine and unique perspective not often seen in contemporary films. How many other movies focus on the  inner workings and relationships at Wal-Mart ?On the other hand, it was a depressing and a negative portrayal of small towns across America. Maybe that was the intended effect ? I don't know. To make a long story short, one brainless country girl ruins the lives of her husband and two other guys, because she couldn't keep her legs crossed. Nothing more, nothing less. That's the story, as I see it.The character played by Jack Gyllenhaall was laughable. I can't see how any girl anywhere could have ever been attracted to this guy. He seemed 10x more brainless then Anistons character and at least 10 years younger. Was that the intended effect ? Who knows ? Who cares ? All I know is I wanted someone to beat this guy up the whole movie, just because he was such a loser !Anyway, I think this movie is worth seeing if youre in the mood for it. Just don't take your girlfriend or you'll never wind up never trusting her again ! "},{"Title":"Under 100 minutes---worth $7.00? Bull***t!","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  On the DVD deleted scenes commentary by director, Miguel Arteta, he says. I think I owe it to the movie to keep it short as possible. Then deleted scene after deleted scene he continues, I really hated to cut this scene. or This is one of the best scenes in the film. I don't know why we cut it. The last nine or ten films I've watched on DVD with included DVD's I keep hearing remarks such as the above by director after director on their commentaries.  I may be one of many or maybe I'm the only one who feels this way, but I have a rule of thumb before I go to the movie house to see a film. I check the running time first. If it' under 100 minutes, I wait for it on video because I know I'm going to see a fuller version for a lot less money.  Charging seven bucks for a cut-down movie is like going to a restaurant, ordering a full meal, but the chef decides it's better for us if he cuts down on the portions of food and still charges us full price.It's true, some, if not all, of the best scenes from The Good Girl were deleted. Does 94 minutes warrant the full price of a ticket. Do directors and editors think that our attention span is so short, that they can't include the ten or so minutes that they have cut? It infuriates me. Take for example, the super DVD edition of Lord of the Rings (I), the director added some 30 minutes in the Director's Cut version and everyone who has sat through it says that it's exciting and never should have been edited.  I realize that for the theatre owner's sake, it's best to show shorter films for more turnover and more profit...but a 94 minute Independent Film? How many people were turned away? How many showings sold completely out? None, if you look at the box office receipts.  I wish somebody somewhere would listen to the audiences sometimes. It is we who make them rich or suffer financial losses. The producer didn't make seven dollars off me, he didn't even make $3.99 at BlockBuster. I paid less than a buck at Netflix and saw the film WITH the cutouts.The film? It was great after I had seen what was deleted! Their performances were way above par even though I'm not a Jennifer Aniston fan. I've never like the way she hasn't learned to speak with her upper capped teeth. I'm always distracted by her impediment.  Her face and emotions are wonderful. Her acting is great. I only wish she'd go to speech therapist and overcome this handicap.  Was she trying to balance her looks and smile with her husband's?  Enough criticism about her because I don't want to deter anyone from seeing a very fine film...just don't wait for it on cable...or catch it at a theatre. Rent the DVD and see what the director didn't have the courage to show us...the real and COMPLETE version.  As prices at the box office continue to rise in order to pay the enormous $20 million superstar salaries...give us at least 100 minutes of the movie. Who knows? It might be a bigger hit! "},{"Title":"A depressing comedy?","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think I've ever been so amused and depressed by the same movie before.  So much was made of Aniston's performance, and she is good, but she is just one player in a well cast film.  In fact, she may have the easiest role in the film, as she is required to play most scenes devoid of expression or emotion.  It is the situations that surround her that make the movie so funny, and much credit must be given to the supporting cast for making these situations seem so believable.  But it is Aniston's sad character, sick of her surroundings and life, yet unwilling to change it, that makes for a depressing story.  Even though there are plenty of laughs while watching the film, it will not leave you with a warm and fuzzy feeling when it's done. "},{"Title":"Is this a comedy?","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   I really don't understand how can ''The Good Girl'' be considered a comedy. I think it is one of the most powerful dramas of the last times, next to ''In the Bedroom'', ''You Can Count on Me'' and, perhaps, ''American Beauty''. It is very pessimist. Jennifer Aniston gives an excellent acting, without the features of her Rachel Green (''Friends''). But the best things in the film are the actors John C. Reilly (who is always good) and Jake Gyllenhaal.Under the boring aesthetics (typical of Independent films), there's a story about solitude, despair, indifference, and premature maturity. Above all these things, there's a little of social satire too (the living out of big urban centers). This intimist film is slow, cruel and true on its context. There's no comedy in it. "},{"Title":"Comedy?","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I sat down to watch this movie hoping for a good comedy since it had been rated so good, i was in for surprise, to me this did not seem like a comedy, there wasn't any real funny story being told, I'd have to say it would more be in the Romance/Drama genre. Nice movie and all, but not exactly what I was hoping for. "}{"Title":"Depressing and strange, but good  (***)","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   Jennifer Aniston stars as Justine, a 30 year-old retail store clerk in middle-of-nowhere Texas who has begun to view her dull, ordinary life as a prison sentence.A glimmer of hope for some excitement in seen in Holden, a young, strange co-worker (a moving Jake Gyllenhaal).The two begin a passionate affair, but soon things go bad and there are several unexpected consequences for Holden, Justine, and her decent but dull husband Phil (John C. Reilly).The Good Girl is not quite the light comedy/drama that the trailers suggest. Though it is quite funny (and even light) from time to time, it's quite a dark little movie. It has a heroine who is sometimes difficult to like (and who does something alarming in the last third of the film that nearly erased all sympathy I had for her), it has story developments that seem to be deliberately disappointing, and despite the comedic tone it has, it's quite a depressing movie.This is why I like it, though. It's a difficult movie and extremely unpredictable, as opposed to most movies that give you exactly what you want and expect.Besides, the movie is worth seeing just for Aniston's and Gyllenhaal's performances, as well as an hilarious supporting turn by Zooey Deschanel as a passive-aggressive store announcer.  "},{"Title":"J.An can act!","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS...Seeming TV lightweight Jennifer Aniston had done nothing to disprove this image with inane comedies such as Picture Perfect, but with her role as Justine in Miguel Arteta's The Good Girl, she really shows her mettle and comes out looking like a real actress.  This film is often mildly amusing and quite emotionally powerful, thanks to Mike White's (Chuck and Buck, Orange County) solid screenplay.  Unfortunately, Arteta's camera spends way to much time lingering on the bored and boring denizens of Justine's employer, Retail Rodeo.  Zooey Deschanel (or something like that)is sort of funny, as is White's bible thumping role, but tons of screen time is spent focusing on these characters doing nothing particularly interesting or funny.  It's as if there is a big joke with these characters that was left out.        Jake Gyllenhaal is decent but often unintelligible as a Catcher in the Rye inspired dude named Holden Worther.  Supporting turns by John C. Reilly and Tim Blake Nelson are really the funniest parts in the film.  The story is good, but a fairly tired and really the film is only notable for Aniston's performance.        The final decision Justine makes, going home to John C. and leaving a possible escape with Holden reminded me of a short story by Albert Camus in which an Arab prisoner is given the choice of going to prison or taking the road to an uncertain freedom.  He chooses prison, because a life on the lam without structure is simply too complicated and uncertain.  This principle seemed to embody Justine's choice as well.    The ending seems to indicate that it is Phil's (John C.) baby, but it is  still uncertain to me.  Did Justine just get lucky?  Or is Phil going to have some interesting questions to ask down the road?     "},{"Title":"Pathetic People - Overrated Art Film","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why should we care about the protagonist?  She's incredibly stupid, has no talent, no intellectual interests, no friends, no concern for anyone around her, & no insight into her life.  This is a pretentious movie made by some urbanite that's supposed to lampoon small-town life b/c there are homely people in it (though not Jennifer Aniston), & thereby be an art film.  Jennifer Aniston is supposedly displaying her acting talent b/c she's not acting pert.  In fact she wears the same clueless bored expression throughout the film, quite one-note.If this woman had run off to a city or anywhere she'd be the same dull, clueless person with the same 85 IQ.  Watching her was simply frustrating. "},{"Title":"3 stars (out of 4)","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Justine Last (Jennifer Aniston) works in a store called the Retail Rodeo, in a small town somewhere in Texas. It seems to be a *down*scale K-Mart with few customers and generally dysfunctional employees. Gwen works with Justine in cosmetics and seems overly perky but is possibly the most normal of the bunch. Cheryl (Zooey Deschanel from Almost Famous as well as the little-seen Manic) gives the attention K-Mart shoppers announcements, except her announcements tend to contain profanities, insult the customers, and/or degrade the products being announced. Corny (Mike White, who also wrote the script) is the evangelical security guard. Jack Field (John Carroll Lynch from Fargo) is the store manager. And Holden (the suddenly omnipresent Jake Gyllenhaal) is the new checkout guy who doesn't talk to anyone, eats lunch by himself, and is always reading The Catcher in the Rye.Justine is dying of boredom and feels trapped in her job. She also feels trapped in her seven year marriage to Phil (John C. Reilly from Magnolia), who is a house painter. We mostly see Phil sitting on the sofa drinking beer, smoking pot, and watching television with his friend and fellow painter Bubba (Tim Blake Nelson from O Brother, Where Art Thou?).So when Justine starts talking to Holden, she doesn't really understand what he is talking about, but she gets that he is *very* different from the other people she knows. And Holden also finds Justine different from other women because she is interested in him, which he takes to mean that she gets him. And so there is an attraction, despite her marriage and their age difference (she's 30 and he is 22).I'm not sure if this film has a point, other than to avoid living in a small town and getting married too young. And maybe to change Jennifer Aniston's image, which it does quite effectively. The film is depressing despite its occasional humor, and there are no characters you can really like. But despite that, I felt that the rich set of characters (especially Holden, Justine, Phil, and Bubba) made the journey worth taking.You'll probably have to take this journey on home video, since I waited until this film was about to disappear from theaters (10/3/2002). It should lose little on the smaller screen.  "},{"Title":"Wow! Rachel can act!","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mike White must be an interesting guy. After writing for Dawson's Creek and the highly underrated and long lamented Freaks & Geeks, and writing the flotsam that was Dead Man On Campus, he managed to jump into indie film cult status with Chuck & Buck, capitalized on that with Orange County (with a peak-of-his-visibility Jack Black), and now makes The Good Girl, a film that seems like it should be a very tiny, under-the-radar sort of independent picture.One problem with that. The Good Girl features Friend Jennifer Aniston, after their most successful season in years. It was impossible for this film to fly under the radar. And it's a good thing too, because this is easily the best film of Aniston's career.The part is perfect for Aniston. Having seen the star power and charisma she can use in a part like Rachel Green, to see her bring it down and play embittered and apathetical Justine Last is a revelation. She embodies the part of the wife, trapped in a loveless marraige, a useless job, and a meaningless existence, she shows a physical lack of energy and hope, yet has a glimmer in her eye that shows she's ready to escape.That escape comes in the form of Holden Worther (Bubble Boy Jake Gyllenhaal), a twenty year-old depressive writer who has decided to pattern himself after Catcher In the Rye's Holden Caulfield. He writes stories of people put upon by society that are eventually brought down by it. Justine sees that she can escape society with this young man, and they begin an affair.Her husband, Phil (John C. Reilly, America's best undiscovered actor), does nothing but smoke pot with business partner Bubba (Oh Brother, Where Art Thou's Tim Blake Nelson, playing essentially the same part). Justine has no reason to love him apart from the fact that they're married. But in today's modern times, that doesn't mean much, especially when it's discovered that they can't have children because of his vice.I'm sure an understanding of The Catcher In the Rye would lend a greater understanding for the story of The Good Girl, but it's not necessary. The Good Girl is essentially a film that says that you can find meaning in your life, regardless of your circumstance. Sometimes you have to go through hell to find it, but it's there.It's an ironically titled picture. During the second act, you'll find yourself thinking, She's anything but good. But by the third act's resolution, you'll change your mind. Because circumstance and the hopelessness of her surroundings drove her to her actions, not an innate characteristic of her personality. Aniston sells this really well; by not overplaying her character, she shows the difference between these two sides.By the end, The Good Girl shows the true emotions behind it. It's ultimately uplifting, but it'll feel like you're being dragged behind a car wreck for a while.  "},{"Title":"Not As Hot as You'd Think","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes.  THE GOOD GIRL looks like the perfect independent film.  But, it doesn't deliver like you think it would.  Trust me.  I thought it was funny and I loved Jake Gyllenhall and I give much kudos to Jenn Anniston taking on such a role, but, in the end, I wanted something more.  Furthermore, I couldn't stand Zooey Deschanel's character one bit.  Just annoying.    "},{"Title":"well done.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of these user comments are so absurdly crude I wonder what made these people see this movie in the first place.  Contrary to what many seem to believe I don't think this movie is condescending or depressing.  I have never lived in Texas, and I certainly am not married to a house painter. However what Aniston's character experiences emotionally is so universal I had no trouble understanding her dilemma.  Despite the fact that we may inhabit different socioeconomic spaces, our emotional landscapes do not differ much.  What this film did for me is to bring me into an unfamiliar world,and letting me see that we are more alike than different.  "},{"Title":"A real story about real people","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aniston shows that she can play a character with depth. There are few flaws in this movie, even the slow pace in the later half has the (intended?) affect of forcing viewers to assimilate the nature and drudgery of life's messy details.  There is no sweet ending here - one is left to wonder just when and how will Aniston's character resolve the ennui that fills her small life. Hope Aniston will continue to find other fulfilling roles. "},{"Title":"Moody Texas Desperation","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a surprising film, and definitely not a comedy, despite that classification by IMDB. This has a feeling similar to American Beauty - some cynical laughs, but the overall focus is the struggle to overcome meaninglessness. Much of the movie is shot in a huge and usually empty Retail Rodeo mall store - what better setting for a bit of existential angst. Much fuss will be made over Jennifer Aniston doing something other than television, but this is a pretty undemanding role done in a monotone style, with very little risk-taking or stretch. It seems like a cautious step for her to begin a shift to the big screen, which is understandable, and she does a workmanlike job. Jake Gyllenhaal will be the one to walk away with a Supporting Actor award for his scene-stealing role as the appealing but unstable younger lover. While she stays in anxious melancholy, he covers extended emotional territory of joy, despair, anguish, trust, hope, anger, as his character gradually reveals himself. See it not for Jennifer but for Jake. "},{"Title":"To be reality or not to be, that is the problem.","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Girl is not a bad movie, it's just not very great either. The highlights of the movie are the scenes in the Retail Rodeo, where Justine (Jennifer Aniston) works. Between Cheryl (played by Zooey Deschanel) and the songs the Manager sends out and the overall feel of being forced to spend long amounts of time in a stripped down bargain bin, the scenes are realistic, enjoyable, and really make the movie.Jennifer Aniston can act, and she can strip herself down, and she never faltered in this movie. John C. Reilly gave another one of his solid supporting roles that made everybody else look great while making him look unnoticeably fantastic. Jake Gyllenhaal is harder to critique though. If you're becoming one of the many Jake Gyllenhaal fans, of course you're going to enjoy him in this because this is his character- he is the disillusioned youngster who has the talent to be anything but the tragic fate of being too troubled to do anything about it. But, he did it better in Donnie Darko than he did as Holden Wurther, however it's a good enough performance so that you watch it and sometimes maybe you even buy it.There are minor problems though, and most of them stem out of the movie's need to be a beautiful yet tragic piece about the alienation of small town folk. This may be a script spoiler, but there are certain repetitions of phrases; put upon being the most noticeable that continually force you to realize that the movie is trying to be beautiful when the movie really shouldn't be trying to be.It is in the moments where the movie attempts to be painstakingly real or painstakingly beautiful where the movie falters the most. However, if you liked You Can Count on Me, The Ice Storm or any other movie about alienation and the small town identity and what people do to overcome that, you're going to find this movie definitely at par... you're just not going to find anything more than that.  "}{"Title":"If I had more than 2 thumbs, they would be up too!","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Girl was one the best movies that I've seen this year.  It has everything comedy, love, passion, good characters, a great script and wonderful actors. Jennifer Aniston was BRILLIANT.  I thought that she was at her best in this movie and I was damn proud of her. 2 VERY big thumbs up to the cast and crew of this movie.  You all did a wonderful job!!! "},{"Title":"Be careful of what you wish for.","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Justine is 30, and working at the Retail Rodeo, married to house painter with no ambition.  She is in a deep funk as she realizes her life isn't what she had once hoped it would be.  She sees her job and her husband as anchors that are trapping her.  Anxious to step out of her dull life, she begins an affair with a younger man at her work.  At first he seems interesting, intelligent and maybe someone to challenge her, unlike her husband.  At first their romance is satisfying for her.  But, she begins to feel the pressure of hiding an affair, and soon learns that the interesting person she was having the affair with, isn't quit so interesting, has a great deal of his own problems.I kind of cringed watching Justine make decisions which she hoped to make her life more satisfying, but eventually just lead her into a worse situation than she started with.  I liked how the movie let you feel great sympathy for Justine's character in the beginning.  You could feel that she almost needed to make the choices she made.  As her situation worsened, you  begain to see a different side of her original situation.  Her husband was a good person, he was devoted and was probably doing the best he could to be a good husband.It is kind of a dark story, and not everyone.  I typically enjoy movies that are more uplifting, and happy.  But, this movie seemed pretty real, and wasn't quite as dark as some.  There are a few good chuckles in the movie also.    "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a little better than I expected it to be.  The best things about it are its droll sense of humor and its ambiguity.  The tone of the film seems almost indifferent, yet we are still able to relate to/ sympathize with the characters.  Even the minor characters are well developed.  Tim Blake Nielson's character for example he plays a looser house painter who sees his co-worker and best friend (the always funny John C. Reilley) as his idol since he lives in a bigger house and has an attractive wife, things Nielson could never hope for, until that is he finds a way to stab Reilley in the back, which he does without a moments hesitation, since he really doesn't like his best friend at all- he loathes him.  The dialogue is intelligent and the characters are well-written.  There does seem to be a slight problem with the films pacing or tone or something- at times it feels a bit too stifled and self-conscious.  It is nevertheless a good film all around, and an entertaining one at that.  Certainly one of the best released so far this year.  It's getting a lot of buzz for a possible Oscar nod for Jennifer, but I kind of doubt it.  Not because she isn't good, but my guess is that it won't be a showy enough role for Oscar voters.  "},{"Title":"Makes you think and feel","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes our reactions to a movie tell us more about our own fantasies than Freud could conceive. How petulantly dissatisfied we are when our fictional characters don't act the way we think they should. How could that character make such bad decisions, be so cowardly and weak, lie to him or herself--and to others--so thoroughly and to such a fantastic degree? We righteously sit back and say, I see everything so clearly! I have such good taste. I make all the right decisions. I would never behave that way. I would never fall into that trap. I would never come up with such a wild rationalization to torture someone I love. I would hide that evidence, close those blinds, lock that door...  Right. Keep telling yourself that.Initially, this little movie seems to have the deceptive sweet and sour flavor of a romantic comedy, but it delivers more of the sour to those who want their fictional characters flawless as well as beautiful--or comical as well as homely. But that desire is cowardly as well as cliché.The flaws the characters in The Good Girl exhibit are painfully human, and only those blessed with compassion and kindness can look upon the agonizing manifestation of these flaws and appreciate the depth, humanity, realness, and compassion the actors bring to the roles they play. You can open yourself to heartbreak as well as horror when Bubba pleads for Justine to save him. You can cringe at Holden's pretentiousness when he tells Justine that Tom is his slave name. The Good Girl can, if you let it, give you the rare chance to love human frailty.This movie is startlingly real, depressingly real, comically real. That is not to say it is not flawed. Occasionally, it drags. Its ending is curt and somewhat contrived. But the cast is brilliant, funny, pathetic, and charming. Likewise, the writing and directing that evoke such strong performances deserve kudos. (They evoke boring suburban Texas wonderfully.) It is small, intimate, and lovingly made. It's clearly for those of you who still think and feel at the theater.  "},{"Title":"The Adulterous Loser","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's hard to like a movie in which there are no likable characters.  When their unwise and unfortunate choices lead them to increasing unpleasantness the result is a story which is quite unentertaining.  Justine, the Girl of the title, famously played by Jennifer Anniston, is a 30-year old clerk in a low-rent discount store.  The misfits employed there are apparently present to provide some comic relief, but they instead represent the banal stereotypes found populating only such thinly written screenplays. Justine's loser husband and his leering friend are presented to punctuate her loveless and hopeless situation in life.  There is nothing to suggest, however, that she would have ever amounted to anything else.Justine has been married to the porcine pothead housepainter for seven years.  Why?  What did she expect having done so?  What was different back then that made her give up college rather than risk losing him? (That might even have been interesting).  Trying to play against the Rachel type, Anniston does a reasonable job, but the Texas accent isn't really there, and despite trying to be unglamorous, she still is far too pretty an actress for the role.The crux of the movie is the affair she commences with a 22 year-old cashier/stock boy who begins working at the store.  Calling himself Holden for the Holden Caufield character in The Catcher in the Rye, there at first seems to be a glimmer of intellectual promise (both for the character, and the film in general).  Both quickly fade.  Holden (whose real name is Tom) is creepy loser whose alcohol and drug problems forced him to leave college.  He is unshaven and unkempt.  Why would Justine be interested in him?  Holden is pleased that he has met a girl who gets him (as in understands him) but we don't see how or why this momentous event has occured.  Her trysts with him are not believable.  He is a creepy loser scrawling suicidal stories and working as a bag boy in a dead-end store. This does not seem like a reasonable alternative to her unambitous but good hearted husband.The consequences of her liasions with Holden lead to sorrow, further misfortune, and the destruction of at least one life.  (Some people call this a comedy?).  There might have been a good story somewhere in that town, in that store, or in those characters, but this movie can't seem to find one anywhere.  If you find your entertainment by observing the wretched live out their miserable lives, then go to K-Mart yourself and see them.  They might just be there waiting to watch you. "},{"Title":"a quirky comedy","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fans of Jennifer Aniston will be happy to discover that her convincing portrayal as Rachel on Friends is not a fluke she really can act.In The Good Girl, she plays Justine, a 30-year old woman in a small Texas town, drifting along in a nowhere marriage and a dead-end job. Out of boredom, she gets involved with a fellow employee, a young writer with his own set of unresolved issues.The cast is great, even managing to maintain their Texas drawl with no slip-ups.  The film takes you along with it from the first shot of the Rodeo Retail Outlet right down to the closing credits.    "},{"Title":"Fresh indie film","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was hearing a lot of mixed responses from friends before I went to see this one, but I personally really enjoyed it.  It is definitely Miguel Arteta's best film and of course Jennifer Aniston's best performance. It's the first time she's been given anything to chew one and she's real and believeable - a good example of how the role (s) often make the actor. People get typecast and assumptions are made on their limitations as an actor, then you give them a role with some dimension and suddenly everyone is shocked they can act!    "},{"Title":"Great Career Move","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The tone of this movie reminded me a bit of American Beauty, and I really enjoyed it.  As far as Jennifer Aniston is concerned, I think this was the best career move she could have made.  With Friends coming to an end, it's no secret she would like to have a film career, and this role allows people to see her range and talent.  I highly recommend it ) "},{"Title":"Makes you think","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've read some of the comments by others about how Jennifer Aniston looked too glamorous or was too pretty for the character she played.  Being from a small Texas town myself, I'm not sure why her looks would be an issue. Small towns do have pretty girls and they do have problems just like everyone else.  I guess in order for some to see her in this role as a downtrodden store clerk, she needed to be ugly.With that said, I have to say that this movie really made me think.  It made me think about the life I almost chose for myself and thankful that I didn't.  I wouldn't call this a great movie but it was a good movie with a great cast.  Although I wouldn't call this a funny movie there were some really funny parts. I didn't sympathize with Justine at all.  I love Jennifer Aniston and I think she did a great job as Justine but I couldn't understand Justine's decisions.  The one character I did feel sympathy for was her husband.  He was just clueless.  I think they both escaped their marriage in different ways.  The marriage lacked any kind of communication on either part.Anyway, the main reason I went to see this movie because I'm a huge Jennifer Aniston fan and I wanted to see her play a character totally different than Rachel, and she does. "},{"Title":"An Honest and Enjoyable Film","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a girl, Justine Last (Jennifer Aniston) says as The Good Girl opens, you see the world as a giant candy store filled with sweet candy and such&#133;as you get older it becomes a prison. A 30-year old cashier and cosmetics clerk at the Retail Rodeo department store in rural Texas, Justine, like many other working people, goes through her daily routine in a job lacking meaning. The Good Girl, the second collaboration between director Miguel Arteta and writer Mike White, chronicles her increasing depression as she comes to recognize the dead end that her life has become, and, ultimately, her attempt at liberation.  Arteta captures the dull texture of Justine's life in the various images of Retail Rodeo. The Rodeo, with its cold white floors, slow sliding exit doors, and zombie-like customers, provides a vivid metaphor for Justine's sterile inner-life. It is populated with workers who are fed up, and each deals with their situation in variously comic ways. Corny (co-writer Mike White), a born-again Christian security guard, installs camera's in hidden areas, allowing him a way to pass the days and a greater omniscience than perhaps his job requires. Gwen (Deborah Rush), a peppy busybody and probably Justine's closest friend at work, encourages her to stay active and essentially ignore her feelings of unhappiness. Sullen cashier, Cheryl (Zooey Deschanel), earns some of the biggest laughs in the movie, loading her loudspeaker customer-service announcements with sexual innuendo and veiled insults at the customers. After handing a customer her receipt, she mutters, F*ck you very much, causing the woman to do a double take. Increasingly frustrated with her job, Justine's malaise is deepened by her inability to relate to her slow-witted house painter husband Phil (John C. Rielly). Throughout the film, Phil does little more than sit on the sofa, watch TV, and smoke pot with his work buddy, Bubba (Tim Blake Nelson). When, stoned, they wonder at the possibility of a paint that could change the molecular structure of the house, Justine can only sit silently in dismay.Slowly she develops a friendship with a quiet, sad-eyed cashier at work, played wonderfully by Jake Gyllenhaal. He calls himself Holden, after his hero, Holden Caulfield, from the novel The Catcher in the Rye. Like the author of that novel, J.D Salinger, Holden dreams of making his fame as a writer before escaping to the life of a recluse. They begin having lunch together and soon their friendship blossoms into a passionate affair. It seems that they are bonded by unhappiness, a mutual distaste for the world that pits them both as outsiders. I was looking at you in the store and I liked how you kept to yourself, Justine tells him. I saw in your eyes that you hate the world. I hate it too. Though Holden feels that he has finally found someone who gets him, it soon becomes clear that he doesn't quite have his head on straight and becomes increasingly morose. As the affair continues, Justine's guilt increases and she begins to feel suffocated under Holden's obsessive behavior. Like inmates in a prison, Holden and Jennifer make plans to escape. However, their relationship is soon discovered and Justine is forced to make a life-defining decision. The Good Girl is not afraid to show the American workplace as less than idyllic. Though it resembles other suburban angst movies like American Beauty, the film is rescued from cliche and plot contrivance by an offbeat sense of humor and compelling characters. It deals honestly with the 'stuckness' that many perfectly well adjusted adults experience in their lives. To its credit, the film is not content to simply reveal the desire for escape, but ultimately questions whether that desire might be as much an illusion as the presumed bliss of a nuclear family. In this sense, The Good Girl, is most clearly not a hopeful film. However, it is an honest film, an immensely enjoyable film, and finally, an important film.   "}{"Title":"Harmless, but hardly moving, only mildly funny","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  No chemistry between Justine and Holden.  He was unbelievable and hardly seemed like a serious, brooding, disturbed writer.  He was just weird.Jennifer Aniston did a reasonable job, assuming she wanted to portray the lead character as an emotionally dulled, largely disinterested person. Her alienation from her life was unbelievable.In the first 20 minutes, the movie did a pretty good job of sucking you in, but then it just fell flat. "},{"Title":"This is a very humane, gently satiric and deeply funny dark comedy.","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Between the title character, a young woman bored and disappointed in her life for good reasons, and the arrested adolescent with whom she decides to have a brief affair, the gently satiric details of the story build slowly but ever so engagingly. The humor is natural and never far away, always in delicate balance with the pathos and tackiness of American working class lives in parallel ruts--lives that we might not care about but for the human authenticity revealed by the brilliant screenplay, deft acting, and sure direction. To say it is dark comedy does not do justice to the delicate fabric of this fine film, because it concludes free of formulaic taint or any feel of falseness. It is a work of subtle and gentle art about the ordinary, tragicomic lives of ordinary people. Mike White, the writer, who also plays Corny the security guard (and who played Buck in Buck and Chuck) appears to deserve equal credit with an able director and fine ensemble of actors. See this film. "},{"Title":"If you hate indie movies...","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... maybe then (although I couldn't swear it) you'll enjoy what I find best described as a pathetic parody of one. Let me see, what is it again that I've heard some narrow-minded opponents of  independent film-making say about it ? Boring movies about boring lives, boring situations in boring places; characters with nothing more to offer than despair and/or depression and with whom, as a result, you just cannot empathize at all; suicidal teenagers; unhappy hence naturally adulterous wives of alcoholic or otherwise addicted husbands; harmless and not-so-harmless morons... Hey, you know, what ? This movie has it all !!! Which I wouldn't mind if, say, it was a conscious exercise in parody or actually had something to say about film-making, but I really don't think that is the point here it's just an independent movie made by someone who actually believes (and enjoys ??? go figure) that they're all about what I listed above ! The single redeeming feature of this movie is Jake Gyllenhaal whose part as an angst-ridden teenager is almost as enjoyable as the one he had in Donnie Darko; as for Jennifer Aniston, she isn't bad (actually, I usually like her) but definitely won't save the movie. My conclusion is if you like Jennifer Aniston, just go (re-)watch some Friends; if you like Jake Gyllenhaal, just go (re-)watch the excellent Donnie Darko - a movie where teenage angst was put to good cinematic use as opposed to being just one ingredient in an insipid, indigest indie-flavored mush. "},{"Title":"The Good and Bad Girl","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm still not sure whether or not I like The Good Girl.  I think the movie was well cast.  Jennifer Aniston was convincing as Justine.  I definitely could identify with her character in many ways, especially in the beginning. Who isn't familiar with that feeling of being trapped and realizing one day that a lot of life has just passed you by?  It's that middle-middle life crisis when you're still trying to figure out what you want to do when you should've figured it out a few years ago.  That's a compelling and interesting story!  I guess what bothered me the most was that the movie was fairly predictable when it shouldn't have been.  I thought the story would have been much better had the screenplay left room for surprise.  There were a few surprises. ***SPOILERS BEGIN*** I definitely wasn't expecting Gwen to die so suddenly (which was both ironic and morbidly funny).  I was equally disturbingly astonished that Justine would actually be so desperate as to have sex with Bubba.  Nevertheless, writer Mike White, for whatever reason, wanted to make it painfully clear where this story was going.  After Justine practically spells out that she is more than fertile and tells Phil that his drug habit is probably affecting their chance of having a child, who didn't know that Justine was going to become pregnant by Holden?  Who didn't see the cashier at the motel swiping the credit card and figure out that eventually the bill was going to come?  How could you not figure out that Holden would kill himself after he made SO MANY remarks about how he wanted to die? ***SPOILERS END*** The story, overall, was good.  I just wish the movie had been a little bit more subtle.  I think that would have made the movie good. "},{"Title":"The Bad Girl With No Exciting Appeal","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This contains slight spoilers.I went to see this movie the day it came out. I was surely disapointed. There was a lack of excitement. However the thing I found most appealing was how most people can relate, and how real to life the plot was. I found the character Cheryl hilarious. I felt bad for Holden and *SPOILERS* I wish he hadn't died. "},{"Title":"Not my favorite film of the year.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I rode home in the taxi after watching this movie, I noticed two things. First, that I wasn't sure I liked it.  Second, was that things seemed to be a little brighter than I remember.  Almost as if there were more street lights than the night before, or perhaps the headlights on the cars were brighter.  Whatever the case, by the time I got home, I still hadn't decided whether or not I liked this movie.I did like Jennifer Aniston's performance. Of that I'm positive.  As Justine, she portrays a woman torn between her head, heart, and her soul with an elegance and depth that viewers of Friends never get to see.  I was impressed with her ability to stretch so far from what some might see as her `customary' character.  Without the makeup and fancy clothes, you see Justine, as she's meant to be seen - simple, trapped, looking for escape, with a twinge of mischief in her eyes.  And it's worth mentioning that Aniston seems more comfortable in this role than in any other I've seen.By no means a `new' type of character; Aniston brings a freshness and grace to the screen for what may have otherwise been the death knoll for this movie.  There are other semi-notable performances, John Reilly as Justine's husband Phil, and Tim Blake Nelson as Bubba offer viewers a pleasant relief from the main story line, that of Justine and her affair, Holden (Jake Gyllenhaal).  Gyllenhaal's performance is to say the least, sophomoric, flat and rather difficult to sit through.The story line is predictable, leaving little to the viewer's imaginations, but there are a few poignant moments, and if you really want to know what they are, I will tell you.  But I don't want to spoil it for those that may see the movie.Having thought about it some more, I have decided that I did am not all that wild about this movie.  I'm glad I saw it, but would not recommend it in the theatres.  Wait until it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"A moving film with a provocative  finish.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those who wish to leave a movie wondering what they would do in the characters' shoes, this movie is a must see.  Would you turn left or right? What sort of epiphany would it take to make that sort of decision, and would it be a good one? Living with the consequences of one's actions is a major theme to this movie.  A lot is left for the viewer's interpretation, as well.  In one light, the affair appears to be absolutely justifiable until Phil endears himself by fixing the TV.  The awkward moment in the doctor's bathroom is bizarrely tender and perhaps a turning point for Justine's guilt.  What is the importance of being gotten. Is it as important as being faithful, honest, and trust-worthy?  Is the high reached when having a playful, dirty secret enough to cushion the blow of reality when it comes crashing down?  What makes people make decisions?  What kind of strength does it take to live with them?  The fear of judgment pushes everyone in one direction or another.  When some are judged negatively, they wish to retreat from it and seek solace.  Who could blame them though, because afterall, aren't the on-lookers and teeth-suckers the ones who are at fault for placing unsolicited criticism on a regular person who had lapses in good choices?  Don't see this movie if you want to feel warm and fuzzy when it's over.  See this movie if you like to wonder what would happen if you made different decisions in your life.  See this movie if you want to be moved and challenged.  See this movie to understand what the hell I'm talking about in this commentary. "},{"Title":"A comedy?","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   This film seems unable make up its mind whether it is black comedy or not. If the main character were treated as someone truly unhinged rather than mildly depressed by her circumstances, but who eventually awakens,(like the main character in Nurse Betty) it might have worked. Some awful things happen to some of the characters but I felt nothing for them, this includes that of the star. There is a hollowness at the  heart of her portrayal as if she cannot imagine  what her character should feel.  "},{"Title":"A comedy?","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   This film seems unable make up its mind whether it is black comedy or not. If the main character were treated as someone truly unhinged rather than mildly depressed by her circumstances, but who eventually awakens,(like the main character in Nurse Betty) it might have worked. Some awful things happen to some of the characters but I felt nothing for them, this includes that of the star. There is a hollowness at the  heart of her portrayal as if she cannot imagine  what her character should feel.  "},{"Title":"Jennifer is too pretty for this movie","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The was a pretty good movie.  Clearly, the high rating from the young male category is explained by the gratuitous sex scene.  My only complaint about this film was that the lead actress was far too glam to be convincing in this part.  She should have had worse hair/makeup. Otherwise, she did a fairly passable acting job, not the best in this film though, by no means.  The remaining cast did excellent jobs posing as hayseed loosers.  Most notable has to be John Carroll Lynch and Tim Blake.  I think that Time Blake will never be able to play any other kinds of roles, after Oh Brother and this film, he is the archetypical redneck bubba.  So familiar to all of us who have lived in such little pitiful towns were all these characters.  Many Thanks to Mike White for this nice story. "}{"Title":"Worth Seeing","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Girl is a dark comedy that throws some painful reality in our faces and doesn't pretend to offer easy answers. Will Justine leave Phil and run off with Holden? Is there another way out of her humdrum existence? What really matters in 21st century suburbia anyway? Is it really necessary to give up your dreams as you get older? Seeing how these issues are settled makes the film well worth a viewing, as long as you don't expect a garden variety romantic comedy. This is definitely not that.  "},{"Title":"Out of the rough, comes a gem","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sampling from the top ten grossing movies this week;Signs =(Horrible script, terrible acting) XXX =(Slam it in your face action) Austin Powers in Goldmember =(Crude, gross, toilet humor)Does anyone have any taste left? All I have is a bad taste in my mouth!Along comes The Good Girl, a quiet movie that grips you and pulls you in with its realistic portrayal of a woman's desperation to break out of her mundane existence. Bravo!!This tour de force is headed by Jennifer Aniston who bravely goes were few leading ladies would (no makeup, show the lines in your face) She does a wonderful job as a sales associate from Retail Rodeo, a woman at 30 who is married to a man she no longer loves, working at a job she hates, when she meets a brooding young writer with the spark of life she is looking for. She sees in him the lost innocence of her youth and her wasted years. This vision, however does not last for long as reality sets in.Reality is the key to this film's power. The grainy film stock, the tawdry set design of the store and her small Texas house, the unflattering lighting and lack of makeup on Aniston. All this brings us uncomfortably close to the reality depicted within.The script (Mike White) is taut and never fake (see Signs), the direction (Miguel Arteta) is transparent and supports the material well. It is obvious these guys have worked together before and I hope they collaborate again soon!Please see this movie instead of the usual Hollywood junk, you will be thankful! "},{"Title":"Gray Girl in Gray Dress Against Gray Wall on Gray Day","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm no fan of Friends or of Aniston, but if you know the working class you know her character here. In comparison, Ashley Judd's 1993 Ruby seems almost too broad performance, too much a star turn, though that film stays closer to the plausible, with none of The Good Girl's farce,. I expect to forget Aniston's Justine before too long, or at least that it was Aniston who played Justine.(I can't forget Judd's Ruby.)But this is praise. I remember the milieu that shapes Bovary's fate, better than I do Emma herself. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Aniston at Her Best","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much when I went to go see The Good Girl. But Jennifer Aniston really surprised me with her outstanding performance. This film shows she is a very versatile actresses. I really felt for her character as she was making important decisions about her life. Also, the story is guaranteed to make you think. It seems many of the characters want more out of their life, but don't know how to get it living in this small town. All in all, this movie really held my interest. "},{"Title":"a breath of fresh air","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" God bless Mike White.Bless him for his simple yet refreshingly original scripts. This one doesn't cut as deep as Chuck and Buck, but it's plenty good enough. It's got a similar mix of comedy (in light and dark varieties) and drama. You'll laugh, you'll gasp, you'll squirm. (Isn't that what movies are all about?) The title character's predicament is certainly nothing new, but it's handled with a heightened level of reality and sensitivity rarely seen in past attempts to tell this type of story. And White has truly unique ways to achieve a sense of resolution at the end of his movies.Jennifer Aniston miraculously makes us forget her TV persona in a matter of minutes with her accomplished performance, and she manages to hold on to the viewer's sympathy no matter what her character does. The rest of the cast does quite well too, all of them surely encouraged by the naturalistic tendencies of White's script and Miguel Arteta's direction. Jake Gyllenhaal gives his cliché (if no less true-to-life) character genuine depth, John C. Reilly ensures his character has three dimensions, White does a funny, creepy turn as a security guard, and Zooey Deschanel provides solid sarcastic comic relief. Please, Mike White, continue to write movies. "},{"Title":"good enough","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film would have been good with any actress, and while I think Jennifer Aniston did a good job, I don't see this as a breakout role for her. The film did well in depicting the glum downtrodden world of working in a store like Retail Rodeo (as a former K-Martian, it brought back a lot of memories I was trying to suppress.) Aniston's character, Justine Teeny Last (her name just says it all), is supposed to be depressed, in a funk, but Aniston's eyebrows are a little too groomed and her skin a little too tan and clear for a small-town girl who has given up on life. She basically looks like Rachel wearing flannel. The other characters around her are sufficiently pasty and ordinary, and look like they should be depressed even when they aren't. But I guess Aniston's agent wouldn't hear of them uglifying his/her client.The storyline is good -- Justin meets Holden, a 22-year-old cashier who believes he is the main character of Catcher in the Rye and sees him as her last best chance. She is 30 and has been married for 7 years to Phil, a pothead painter who messes up her house with his best friend  Bubba. She is trying to get pregnant by him but it's not happening. She meets Holden and starts an affair and seems a little more alive. Holden, meanwhile, seems a little more crazy.What is amazing is how all these men seem proprietal about Teeny, especially her body. Phil, Holden, Bubba, even the security guard at Retail Rodeo who keeps bugging her to come to Bible study (who says she'll have many nights of fire and brimstone -- just kidding.) What's equally amazing is how one poor decision spirals into other poor decisions and irretrievable regret.    "},{"Title":"A Good, Small Movie","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw `The Good Girl' on Sunday. I ended up liking it more than I initially thought I would after the first half hour. It's a good, small, quiet film. Viewers won't have to worry that special effects will distract them from the film's message, which I understood to be about people's selfishness that comes from a narrow focus on our own problems, as well as about the commonality of humanity, in that we all deal with many of the same issues. However, I was a bit distracted by Jennifer Aniston's change in gait and stance, which I read was accomplished through use of weights hanging from her arms. And her facial expressions and diction at first seemed almost a caricature of what a Southerner should look and sound like. John C. Reilly, who plays her husband, gave a more convincing performance.  His natural-sounding Texan accent gives no hint that the actor was actually born in Chicago.  Mr. Reilly is a great character actor, one that in my eyes stole the show from Ms. Aniston, notwithstanding her decent performance as an unhappy wife trapped in a stagnant marriage and town.  Towards the end of the film, I felt that the actress had eased into the role and had convinced me that there were strong emotions brewing below the surface.  I thought that the best part of the performances from the two leads and their co-star, Tim Blake (who played the stereotypical good ol' boy, Bubba), came at the end of their sorry tale.  The audience I was part of seemed touched by the poignant ending.  All in all, `The Good Girl' satisfies the desire for a good story without all the explosions and SFX magic that are part of so many films these days. "},{"Title":"Very Good movie","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very good dark comedy about how you reconcile the lost dreams of youth with the life you've created for yourself. Unlike a lot of women's movies, it's very true to life and had an ending that seemed realistic. Very well acted and filmed. "},{"Title":"A movie is about people you know, well perhaps not personally, but you pass them every day in your upwardly mobile ascension.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER---SPOILER---SPOILERThe Good Girl is a drama of small town confinement.  Justin Jennifer Aniston is a prisoner of her existence and serving two life sentences.  She's 12 years into a clerking career at the local discount super store, the Retail Rodeo, and married 7 years to Phil John C. Reilly a house painter.  Phil smells paint fumes by day and keeps the buzz going at night by smoking weed.  Justin becomes infatuated with coworker Holden Jake Gyllenhaal 10 years her junior ----a college dropout, an aspiring J. D. Sallinger, and a minor alcoholic who's seen `the outside'.  Justin shares more than her frustrations with Holden, who sees her as his future.  One problem with small towns is that someone always knows your business.  Justin must thus pay another pound of flesh to keep her secret, but she's undone by a pregnancy test just when the jailbreak is about to happen.  What's a good girl to do, make a break for it, or stay and hope for early parole with good behavior?The Good Girl is about people you know, well perhaps not personally, but you pass them every day in your upwardly mobile ascension.  This film gives them names, lives and personal problems.  Although the story is as common as dirt, it will have appeal to all moviegoers.  It's a perfectly constructed tale and will surely draw you into the lives of the main characters.  The films strength may also be it's undoing.  In a sense, this is `reality cinema', not just mindless Hollywood `entertainment' for the masses, but a real story.  If that were not enough, the filmmakers are actually able to make their point in the standard 90-minutes, a rarity at modern cinema. The Good Girl is a little independent film that opened on just four4 screens nationwide, but it's sure to be coming your way.  The previews---as good as they are---are deceiving.  This is more than another coming out film for a star of the TV sitcom Friends.  It defines Jennifer Aniston' stature as a serious actress with a long and bright future.  Her unlikely pairing with character actor John C. Reilly is exactly what the director ordered, and it works to perfection.    "},{"Title":"Unfortunately a miss","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This could have been a gripping movie about a human tragedy induced by alienation in modern life. Unfortunately it misses due to some careless editing and bad casting. Justine's highfaluting philosophically inclined narration is totally out of character for that bored high school graduate salesgirl. Jennifer Aniston who plays Justine can convey frustration and pleasure and little else. One is reminded of Dorothy Parker's barb She ran the whole gamut of the emotions from A to B. One cannot help but wonder what an actress like the wonderful Renee Zellweger might have done with this rich part. The only thing pathetic about the tragic central Holden character (a plum part) is Jake Gyllenhaal's performance. By contrast John C. Reilly gives a moving, carefully shaded performance as the husband, as do Mike White and Tim Blake Nelson in supporting roles. It is a pity because this movie had the makings of greatness. "}{"Title":"A movie is about people you know, well perhaps not personally, but you pass them every day in your upwardly mobile ascension.","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER---SPOILER---SPOILERThe Good Girl is a drama of small town confinement.  Justin Jennifer Aniston is a prisoner of her existence and serving two life sentences.  She's 12 years into a clerking career at the local discount super store, the Retail Rodeo, and married 7 years to Phil John C. Reilly a house painter.  Phil smells paint fumes by day and keeps the buzz going at night by smoking weed.  Justin becomes infatuated with coworker Holden Jake Gyllenhaal 10 years her junior ----a college dropout, an aspiring J. D. Sallinger, and a minor alcoholic who's seen `the outside'.  Justin shares more than her frustrations with Holden, who sees her as his future.  One problem with small towns is that someone always knows your business.  Justin must thus pay another pound of flesh to keep her secret, but she's undone by a pregnancy test just when the jailbreak is about to happen.  What's a good girl to do, make a break for it, or stay and hope for early parole with good behavior?The Good Girl is about people you know, well perhaps not personally, but you pass them every day in your upwardly mobile ascension.  This film gives them names, lives and personal problems.  Although the story is as common as dirt, it will have appeal to all moviegoers.  It's a perfectly constructed tale and will surely draw you into the lives of the main characters.  The films strength may also be it's undoing.  In a sense, this is `reality cinema', not just mindless Hollywood `entertainment' for the masses, but a real story.  If that were not enough, the filmmakers are actually able to make their point in the standard 90-minutes, a rarity at modern cinema. The Good Girl is a little independent film that opened on just four4 screens nationwide, but it's sure to be coming your way.  The previews---as good as they are---are deceiving.  This is more than another coming out film for a star of the TV sitcom Friends.  It defines Jennifer Aniston' stature as a serious actress with a long and bright future.  Her unlikely pairing with character actor John C. Reilly is exactly what the director ordered, and it works to perfection.    "},{"Title":"Not Boring, But Not Exciting Either...","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you'd like to watch a 30 year old schlep work in a discount department store, in the middle of nowhere, than watch this movie. It's not really much of a stretch for an actress to play a role that's opposite of the one we're used to seeing her in, especially when the role doesn't really ask much of her. What is so hard about not wearing makeup, pulling your hair back, & wearing ill-fitting Wal-mart clothing while reading your lines with a deadpan expression & slight accent? Her performance is low key. Does that mean it's great? Nope. Just different. Not really a big deal as far as I could see. She's married to a pot smoking, pot-bellied, lazy, homely mess. She meets a brooding hottie at her mundane job. Most people would jump at the chance to jump this cutie's bones & add a little excitement to their depressing life! No big surprise there. The complications that arise from the affair are very predictable...**SPOILER** The absolutely most HILARIOUS scene in the movie is when her co-worker Gwen croaks after eating bad berries. After the manager says a few words about her over the loudspeaker he plays the tune I'll Be Seeing You in tribute to her. He tells the employees if some of them need time off to reflect/mourn her passing they can leave. The next scene shows them all running out of the store for a day off. It's such a hoot, I start laughing out loud everytime I think about it!!! "},{"Title":"I recommend it","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film held my interest.  The plot had some complexity and unexpected turns.  It addressed the subject of adultery and possible consequences. Anniston was excellent, looking quite plain and unglamorous A person I spoke to on the way out thought that it was depressing. So be warned of this   I did not think so..  "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished typing an 11 paragraph review, then deleted it for the following concise description.  Lame.This movie, allegedly some sort of hard look at reality, pulls its punches at every turn.  The worst things that happen in this town are an affair and some pot smoking.  When something big finally does happen, the perpetrator of the act is cinematically punished.This is nothing more than moralizing crap wrapped in the guise of art house film making.You want to see a movie about consequences see a real movie; Requiem for a Dream, Looking for Mr. Goodbar, Trainspotting.  IF you want to be bored and get an occasional chuckle, spend your ten bucks on Jake Gyllenhall pouting and eating berries.  "},{"Title":"Wow Jennifer","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Who would have known, that such a talent sleeps in a friends actress...This movie is touching, fluent and very good acted...I really hope that it will be released in Europe (Austria) very soon  "},{"Title":"How Good Was She?","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Director Miguel Arteta shaped a star vehicle for Jennifer Aniston in The Good Girl, a film that strays far enough away from conventionality to be engrossing while leaving key questions unanswered.I'm in that uncultured minority that haven't seen Ms. Aniston on TV but I have seen her in several good but not great films where she plays, usually, an urban woman looking for romance.In The Good Girl she's Justine Last, a bored Texas housewife married to Phil, John C. Reilly, who's stoned when he isn't drunk. She plays her actual age at the time of filming, thirty.  Phil's lifelong faithful companion, Tim Blake Nelson, is known to us only as Bubba.  Hubby and friend try to stay focused on a never switched-off TV.  For some reason Justine can't manage to engage either in meaningful conversation.Justine works in a small town Texas caricature of a Wal-Mart where the encroachment of seediness can almost be smelled in the theater.  The employees and customers seem, at first, to be borrowed from a sitcom set.But bored Justine, who has been trying to have a baby with her unlovable lout of a husband, is attracted to Holden, the self-adopted substitute for his real name (guess what novel he's addicted to).  Holden is a teenager or maybe in his early twenties. He works with Justine.  Not exactly management trainee material is this guy. Either way it soon becomes clear his emotional I.Q. is lower than his alarmingly disturbing mental state.It's not a spoiler to report that Holden and Justine wind up in bed.  And at that point the behavior of the principal characters becomes more complex. Just what does Justine really want?  The conventional way to portray a young woman stuck in a miserable marriage with a dead-end sales clerk job in a town that would be a great site for rehabilitating criminals by making them live there is to show, subtly at first, her great hidden talents and high intelligence.  These qualities should surface slowly as she recognizes she ought to be in law school, working in a Manhattan ad agency, or flying an F-14 off the deck of a carrier.Arteta's vision, superbly realized by Aniston, is that we're left wondering if this woman should - or COULD - have a more satisfactory life than she has in her town.  Justine is no repressed blossom needing nurture by a passing professor whose car has broken down nor does she become attracted to learning and career opportunities from TV.  Or anything. As Justine navigates an increasingly complex personal maze it becomes a fair question whether she's good or just an unhappy person with hazy dreams and an unawareness of how much can go wrong.  And how responsible she might be for engineering chaos.The resolution isn't what many will expect - or like. One character, Cheryl, played by Zooey Deschanel (can you see THAT name above the title?) should have been written out of the script.  She's a fellow employee of Justine but her antics in the story are so over the top they eventually detract from the plot.I hope Jennifer Aniston is on a roll to do serious drama.  She's very, very good.8/10. "},{"Title":"The Great Girl","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I walked into this movie mainly because Jennifer was in it. And I probably wouldn't have gone if she wasn't, but I am so glad that I did. Aniston plays Justine, who works at a store called the Retail Rodeo which she described in an interview with Jay Leno as a store that is not quite a Wal-Mart not quite a Target. Justine is married to a plot smoking house painter named Phil, played by John C. Reilly. Her and Phil are trying to have a baby but can't cause one of them isn't fertile. She isn't happy with her life and ends up making a lot of bad choices, one of the bad choice for example is having an affair with a 22 year old who calls himself Holden (after his favorite book The Catcher In The Rye) who also works at the Retail Rodeo played by Jake Gyllenhaal. This movie was so great and Aniston was great in it steering clear of the whole Rachel persona. What I thought Jennifer brought to this film was her charm, you see your suppose to hate her, but you somehow love her. I would recommend this movie who anyone who wants to see a movie with a point and an outstanding cast. I can already here her acceptance speech at next years Oscars. "},{"Title":"The more I think about it the better it gets.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This tale of a minor tragic episode in the life of a young married woman has some jokes in it, but I can't feel too bad about laughing.  It's got to be better than crying.  I agree with all those who talk about how wonderfully Jennifer Anniston plays the part.  Any awards she gets for it she fully deservesThe overall message, which is not stuffed down your throat, is pretty grim - step out of line and you'll be stepped on, and worse, the other line doesn't go anywhere anyway.  The best to be hoped for is what you've already got. The film impressed me very much. "},{"Title":"Lost Among Friends","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before seeing The Good Girl, I had read several reviews that raved about it as being among the year's best films. And I had been looking forward to it long before that. I was a little disappointed in the movie; it could have been a Thelma and Louise; instead, it mainly just stayed a Thelma. You will want to be Jennifer Aniston when you see stubble-faced, red-lipped Jake Gyllenhaal (Donnie Darko) kissing her as much as he does. That much is true.The best comment I could make is that I laughed much harder at the episode of Seinfeld I saw yesterday (the one where Kramer offers bus tours of The Real J. Peterman's life) than I did at The Good Girl. Admittedly, the film has a quirky tone, which I guess means that it's striving to be a little funny, but not too funny. Jennifer Aniston does an okay job of playing a depressive, though Rachel does slip through about a dozen times. Jake Gyllenhaal, well, his smoldering good looks and nerdiness-cum-insanity will have you wanting to drink yourself into oblivion right along with him. The bit players - the store security guard, clerks, and the husband's best friend - steal the show for the most part, taking their small roles and running with them.Probably with different filmmakers at the helm, this script could have been a better movie. The pacing is a little off, the ending needed a rewrite, and some scenes with great comic potential (like when Aniston's Justine gives Holden those blackberries in the car, to name one example) don't get the laughs they should. A film like this needs the funny parts to be cathartic, because if they aren't, the depressing subject matter carries too much weight, and can suffocate everything else.Directorial laziness is evident at times, as parts of this film are none-too-subtle borrowings from other films, some thefts from American Beauty being among the more obvious. "},{"Title":"A Very Thoughtful Film","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Girl, starring Jennifer Anniston, is a quiet film, but nonetheless, it kept me interested throughout.  It takes place in a small, boring Texas town, in which nothing much ever happens.  Justine, who works at the Retail Rodeo, leads a life of desperate boredom.  She ends up having an affair with a fellow worker, not because she is dying for sex, or because she is a bad person, but merely because her life is so damn boring.  Once she enters the affair, she must start piling lie after lie together in order to keep the affair a secret.  To the very end, she still keeps lying, even when the affair has been discovered.  I guess the lying was just ingrained by then. Many unintended consequences result, with tragic results all around.By far the best thing about this movie is Anniston's portrayal of Justine. Although I never forgot that I was watching Jennifer Anniston, never did I feel that I was watching Rachel from Friends.  That is because Anniston gets rid of all of her Rachel mannerisms (hair flipping, hands flying, etc.) to portray Justine.  She shows how sometimes the best acting can be low key, instead of relying on hysterics.  I hope this performance is remembered come awards time. "}{"Title":"A depressing mess","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry to say that this is one of the worst, most depressing films I have ever seen in my life. I thanked the Lord above when it was over (yeah, I could have walked out but I couldn't properly comment on it if I didn't see the entire movie - kind of like those idiots who try to ban books that they never have read). It tried to be a black comedy, it tried to be quirky, it tried to be funny. It failed at all attempts. The movie focuses around the depressing life of Justine who commits adultery then continues to make bad decision after bad decision until the lousy ending of this predictable story. Nothing changes for the main character - you don't even like her - or anyone in this entire story. Who knows, maybe that's what the writer was going for.In my opinion the only way someone could enjoy this movie is watching it so they can see that there life isn't as bad as Justine's - which is pretty sad in and of itself. A waste of talents. Don't even bother to rent it when it's on video in November. It leaves a bad taste in your mouth. "},{"Title":"you can do better","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was disheartening. It takes a very condescending view of everyone it depicts, and the audience is left with no one, really, to pull for. Most of the actors are perfectly fine, but their talents are largely wasted.There's no heart to this film. It tries at once to humorously skewer Middle America but also to touch the audience with the pathos of these sad, unfulfilled lives. That's a tricky line to tread, and this movie doesn't come close to succeeding. It comes off instead as both mean-spirited and namby-pamby. "},{"Title":"JUST LONG ENOUGH","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I do not watch much kids TV and have never seen Jennifer Anniston in any film or on TV.  I think she did an adequate job in this movie, but it was not much of a story line.  Overall the acting by the whole cast was good, and that is as much as I can say about this weak film.  90 minutes was just about all I could take of this movie. "},{"Title":"What a depressing film!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this last night for my birthday and felt so depressed afterwards (not a good birthday selection)! While I admit Jennifer Aniston does a nice turn in a serious role, this film should not be billed as a comedy. There are some funny parts, and I did laugh out loud, but it is basically a look into how *deeply* people can injure each other based on their own selfish desires. It is cast of wounded people trying to make some sense of the world, or find some joy. For the most part, they fail.  "},{"Title":"The GREAT Girl","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I came into this movie after reading all the reviews with high expectations and was treated to a film even better than expected. What a cast! And I never thought I would say this Jennifer Aniston deserves an Oscar. If you're married, this movie will make your guts churn. Jennifer does a wonderful job conveying every internal nuance with the simplest turn of the mouth or minute furrow of her brow.This is a dark, dark comedy that perfectly mimmicks the sloppiness of real life.  "},{"Title":"Morally Bankrupt and moderately entertaining","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first thing that I thought as I left the theatre is that writer Mike White (Chuck and Buck) has really crafted an individual voice for the movies he writes. They are dark, conflicted and perfectly balanced on the fringe of reality. The story takes place in the midst of a marriage about to completely fall apart. That is as happy as the story gets. John C. Reilly is amazing, surprise surprise, as a pot smoking painter with little to no ambition. His wife, played by Jennifer Aniston, is caught in a dead end job as she experiences a mid-life crisis. I have heard Oscar buzz for her portayal of Justine, but I just didn't see it. She did a great job to avoid the Rachel curse, but she pretty much just did her job. It reminded me a lot of Tom Hanks' performance in The Road To Perdition. The script called for a lot of the emotion to come out in subtle glances and I just didn't get the emotional advancement that I think was intended. Overall, it lead to provocative discussion, but mostly about what the viewer would have done different. Charlie "},{"Title":"Solid intimate drama with no lead actress","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are two reasons to talk about this movie (1) the movie itself, and (2) Jennifer Aniston's shot at being an actress(1) the movie is good. It deals with a 30-year old woman, Justine, married to a unexciting husband and living in a mid-sized Texas town. No significant friends or family around to provide relief to this isolated couple with no children. At no time the movie falls into simplistic ways, never giving easy answers, never judging the characters, just showing them as they are and where they are coming from. You will feel for even the worst of them. Depth is provided by an amazing supporting cast Mike White and Tim Blake Nelson are amazing and Jake Gyllenhaal is possibly a star on the rise.Direction is sober but efficient and gives enough comical relief to carry you throughout the whole thing without losing interest or feeling too depressed. It is not a sad movie, despite the subject.(2) Jennifer Aniston cannot act at this level. That is the main problem, she does a decent job in this movie, but her part is too important for her. She is supposed to carry the whole story on her shoulders and she is obviously limited by a lack of screen presence and charisma. An actress like Robin Wright Penn could do it, Julianne Moore could do it... She cannot.Obviously, Aniston got a much bigger part in this movie than what she sould have had due to her Rachel fame, and not to her acting skills. She is good at doing Rachel. She might even learn to play difficult parts like this one in the future. But today, she is not ready and it shows on screen as the comparison with her supporting cast is cruelly not in her favor. She looks like a young actress trying to copy say... Nathalie Baye in Venus Beauté Institus.Then again, it was a considerable challenge for Aniston, who does, again, a fair, decent job... but not quite the real thing.7/10 for the movie - 5/10 for Jennifer Aniston "},{"Title":"Arteta and White craft a warmer, more accessible satire this time.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In `The Good Girl' Miguel Arteta and his writing collaborator for `Chuck and Buck,' Mike White, have forged a real winner.  `Chuck and Buck' grew out of a single idea carried too far  a homely gay man seeks out an old friend whom he played around with sexually as a boy, but who's now straight, successful, and good-looking.  The embarrassment of this situation was relentlessly pursued.  The main character and the only one seen in depth was Buck, played by Mike White himself, a man of modest acting skills who's goofy looking in real life and can appear strange and downright creepy on camera.  It was as if White dared the audience to identify with him or even to put up with him.`The Good Girl' is worlds away from this because it has not only a palpable milieu but engaging characters who are simple-minded and limited but still sympathetic. White has largely switched from ideas to people and forged something that genre-wise is more complex. He's still taking a geeky view of life as something you never quite know whether to laugh or cry or spit at, but he's got a better story and better actors, and Arteta as a director may have learned a thing or two as well.  His first effort, `Star Maps,' seemed downright amateurish.  `Chuck and Buck' just didn't come off. `The Good Girl' works because we're allowed to laugh a lot without losing our interest in the people or finding them the least bit repulsive or inauthentic.In `The Good Girl' a rural East Texas Emma Bovary named Justine Last, married to stoner housepainter Phil, has a wild secret affair with her cohort at Retail Rodeo, Holden, a downbeat and desperate would-be writer who's ten years younger.  Instead of meeting Emma's end, Justine winds up going back to Phil, and Holden goes up in smoke.  Justine has chosen to be a `good girl.'  Phil is played by veteran John C. Reilly -- who was in `American Graffitti' and `Magnolia' -- with a true-blue simplicity and conviction that make you feel there's hope for him.  Reilly and the others evoke a trailer park kind of poor white world that recalls Paul Le Mat's Melvin in Jonathan Demme's classic `Melvin and Howard.'Holden (`Tom's my slave name,' he tells Justine when she comes to his room) is another doomed self-absorbed youth role, more disheveled this time, for the talented Jake Gyllenhaal.  This time he's adopted a little shrunken countrified voice that makes him seem more than slightly foolish, and his wild behavior shows us he's just a dangerous child, but his big hangdog brooding eyes and pouty lips aren't altogether silly because he's too hunky and handsome for that.  When he and Justine first get it on in bed it seems pretty exciting, but borderline violent.  This is a perfect role for Jake, who shone in `Donnie Darko' and has just been seen in a similar but smaller role in Nicole Holofcener's `Lovely and Amazing.'Jennifer Anniston (of `Friends' fame) as Justine has a numb, stoical restraint that makes her the linchpin of the piece. She may not be very bright, but she is brave. Tim Blake Nelson as Bubba, Phil's painting and smoking partner, tunes up the comedy by his twangy delivery of oneliners in the early scenes.  Everyone's a bit deadpan at first and this builds our sense of how boring their lives are but also makes the dialogue funnier. Nelson (one of the principals of `O Brother Where Art Thou?') particularly has the ability to skate with unfailing accuracy along the thin edge between redneck caricature and sympathetic portrait.Like Laura Linney's Sammy in `You Can Count on Me,' Justine realizes she's being crazy and tries to no particular effect to use religion as a corrective.  Unlike Sammy she is childless and there's a suspicion that Phil's heavy drug use has lowered his sperm count.  This leads to trouble when Justine gets pregnant.  As the plot thickens White's writing continues to skirt the line between seriousness and play.  We have a guilty giggle when Justine dumps her seriously ill coworker Gwen (Deborah Rush) at Emergency and rushes off for a tryst with Holden at the motel.  Bubba gets more deeply involved and this is both comic and sadly touching.The embarrassment of `Chuck and Buck' has turned largely to sympathetic laughter. You could call this character-driven satire, but it takes a film noir twist, and the satire blends with romance and the comic book redneck geekiness carries a moral message.  It can turn mushy at the end and accept what it mocked just as Abrams and Broder's `Pumpkin' does.The Kmart-esque Retail Rodeo itself is a palpable presence with its big over-lit space and announcements to the team.  The Rodeo storeroom is where Justine and Holden have their riskiest couplings.  White has a relatively minor role this time as a Bible-thumping security guard.  (Since he's the son of a fundamentalist Christian preacher in real life, this little role has personal resonance.) The store becomes a stage as we keep coming back to it to watch Zooey Descharnel's Cheryl do clownish facial makeovers on elderly women, hear John Carroll Lynch as Jack Field, Your Store Manager, make lugubrious announcements on the PA system, or witness Justine and Holden ogling each other or humping in the storeroom.  After each of two deaths Jack Field makes a formal announcement on the PA system followed by an appropriate tune  `This one's for you.' The Retail Rodeo scenes would be terrifying if they weren't so comic and sad.  The town is called Wasteland, Texas.  Isn't that hilarious?The plot has some real momentum as the affair gets more exposed and Holden turns into a criminal.  It's not that there are a lot of surprises, but fate takes its course too fast to bore anyone and misdeeds lead to inevitable consequences.  Arteta and White may just be playing around, but they're playing with good raw materials this time.  "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This black comedic look of the working lives of a bunch of Texas residents at a local low budget Wal-Mart rip off (The Retail Rodeo) is quite entertaining.  But what keeps it from degrading into the obvious stupidity of the characters and the situation, is that everyone in the film is very charming.Aniston and the other actors performances while over the top and off the deep end, create a sense of more than anything, a connection with the audience.  As stupid as these people are (and dam funny at times) you can't help but like them.To a clueless clerk, a chain smoking pot head house painting husband, a loner kid who calls his given family name his slave name.., and a born again security guard who remarks to Anniston after she says she would rather have her evenings to herself than bible study, replies mockingly, well I guess you can also spend your afterlife in internal damnation as well but its your life.. Plenty of qwerkyness and laughs to enjoyRating 7.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A little story of little people caught in a nowhere existence","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In `The Good Girl,' Jennifer Anniston plays a clerk at the Retail Rodeo in a remote part of Texas; her life is as second-rate as the makeup she sells and the preaching the manager pushes over the public address system, like a farewell song to a deceased employee-`I'll be Seeing You in All the Old familiar Places.'  Her husband is a big, slobby, brain-fried house painter (played deftly by the likeable John C. Reilly), her coworker died from bad blackberries, a younger man seduces her, and her TV doesn't work right. She rightfully hates her life.I am fascinated by the television-addicted working class, at least as depicted in films, because I can't believe anyone could watch that much TV or drink that much beer.  Apparently they do, and in so doing they get my full sympathy for any boredom-cracking activity like being an adulterer or stealing from the owner. For Reilly and his trailer-trash buddy, Bubba (played perfectly by John Carroll Lynch), drinking and toking on the couch in front of the TV is a life worth living.Even the working class must pay their dues (the upper classes call it `tragedy'), and Anniston does an admirable job of showing how banal that punishment is.  Each day in the Rodeo is a Dantean ring of hell, each act of defiance is inarticulate, and the actress is not about to overact to get the point across.  In fact, the acting is the film's strength each character's secret anguish is never revealed but pasted on a smile or a glance. Playing the opposite of her privileged TV character, Anniston shows a range that should dispel any doubts about her inability to morph into a film star.Director Miguel Arteta and writer Mike White (both from `Chuck and Buck') tell a little story of little people caught in a nowhere existence. Just don't expect dialogue to lift it to your level of understanding because the fate of the cowboys and cowgirls at this `rodeo' is as inscrutable as it is depressing.  `The Good Girl' and Anniston do a remarkable job of depicting the lost life, briefly raised from boredom, and quickly tossed back into the ring for another battering round with a careless destiny. "}{"Title":"Empty","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another in the recent spate of films that are content to display characters in odd settings and walking through plots that have no originality.  If it were not for Jennifer Anniston, The Good Girl would pass through the art film circuit nearly unnoticed.  The characters are funny, but in a pathetic way that causes embarrassed twitters from the audience.  The plot is thin and drags, even in a movie that was only 90 minutes long.The unoriginal themes are similar to those presented in Lovely & Amazing and The Serpent's Kiss.  All three movies attempt to slide by on cinematic style without bothering with niceties such as character development.  The characters were not sympathetic and lacked any insight into their actions, and were unable to communicate with each other.  Watching The Good Girl was like peeping through the curtains to watch the neighbors in their bedroom - I could see the actions of the people, but had no idea what the activity meant. "},{"Title":"Just depressing","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was uncomfortable to watch. Everyone seemed to be miserable. It was funny at times, and the acting was superb, but it was not overall a pleasant experience. A movie doesn't have to be fun and entertaining if it makes you think or you can appreciate it as art, but this movie fills neither purpose. What's more, it's very grainy and amateurishly shot. I'm sure that was done for the purpose of art, but it just made the film visually as well as emotionally unappealing.Yes, Jennifer Aniston can act. Did I care about her character? Not particularly. What's missing here is some character redemption or positive outlook on life. Without it the movie is just depressing. Thank goodness it was only an hour and a half. And thank goodness I didn't have to pay to see it. "},{"Title":"The Good Movie","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After watching director Arteta's last two films, Star Maps and Chuck & Buck, I was surprised to find a film this gentle. The movie unfolds at a slow pace, but I didn't find it boring because the clever script finds just enough humor and drama to hold interest. The best way to describe it is as a character study. All the acting is first rate, especially Jennifer Aniston. This film is about what happens when a bored Texas housewife, played by Aniston, embarks on an affair with a young co-worker.Even though she is the good girl of the title, she lies, she cheats and she eventually hurts people. I think the title is appropriate because at times, she acts more like a girl than a woman. The film charts how she grows through her mistakes. It is exactly the kind of small scale character drama that major Hollywood studios have practically given up making. In a film like this, either you care about what is going on or you don't and I cared. Overall, it is a good movie.  "},{"Title":"The Good Girl makes the grade","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mike White and Miguel Arteta have crafted another completely unpredictable, subversive little gem of a movie, and while The Good Girl doesn't have the sheer perversity of Chuck & Buck, it's still exceedingly better than most of the relationship-driven films being produced these days. Stand-out performances from Jennifer Aniston, Jake Gyllenhaal, John C. Reilly, Mike White (the Buckster himself!). . . AND we get to see the great Tim Blake's Nelson.  Now THAT's entertainment.   "},{"Title":"Audience is treated like dirt.  We deserve better.","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very unoriginal script (and worse than usual version no less) that actually dumbs down a plot that was simplistic sixty years ago.  If you can't find at least six other films made with the same plot, and more entertaining, then you aren't looking.  This film doesn't even come up with a good sub-plot, a must for such a thin premise.  The director and writer have very little respect for their audience attempting to inject no moral, no lesson, no point, only excuses for their characters' moral ignorance!  They seem to be saying the audience is as dim witted (if not intellectually, then socially) as the characters in the film so why mess up the connection they enjoy.  Many of the audience have experienced the same events in the film, but certainly don't identify with the personal reasons for the events that are layed out in the film.  A small fan base will, but certainly most are smarter, by a long shot.  It feels good to blame our failures on others.  That's only natural.  In this film's case on the people Jennifer Aniston's character has dated...so considering she dates losers makes her a complete idiot for not being able to direct her own destiny a little bit better.  She doesn't even know she can direct her own destiny!  Eventually, most of us know that's not reality.  As soon as we walk out into the daylight from the theater we know we've been conned.  There has been a perverse allowance for this time of thing in dumb comedies since we can at the very least say that we are laughing at ourselves in a way.  And laughter is a good argument against any sense of reasoning.  But this is no comedy!  Jennifer Aniston's character blames her fate on others, not herself, and there is no attempt to state she is in charge of her own destiny and to blame for her own relationship failures.  A lesson well taught to the intended audience of young adults who welcome the argument that they are not to blame for anything in their lives.  In essence, the director and writer are telling the audience what they want to hear, not what they should hear, and certainly not the truth.  The director and writer are lying to their audience, and that makes for the worse type of film.  This decade is probably the worst in regards to good actresses.  There are no Meryl Streeps or Katharine Hepburns left and perhaps that's because today's crop of actresses grew up in the Hollywood community and not really having any experiences outside getting drunk at niteclubs or lounging naked at tropical beaches.  In Jennifer Aniston's performance, it shows.  There is just no weight of experience, acting or personal.  But then again there are very few good scripts and I have to also blame a severe lack of good writers in Hollywood, or perhaps there are and their scripts aren't being sold.  The Good Girl is a Good Example of what stinks in Hollywood.  Bad acting, bad script, and a director who writer who are slumming.  This movie opened against TRIPLE X...aka XXX (you know, like what Hillbillies used to write on Moonshine jugs because they couldn't write)...a stunt driven action film, the type of film Hollywood can still handle, probably because it doesn't depend on a script, just good stunts (most of which are just good animation).  We deserve better Hollywood. "},{"Title":"If not the movie, Aniston herself.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have always found myself criticizing Jennifer Aniston as a one-level actress.  I always seemed to find her Rachel in everything she did. Even though I made this judgment upon her, I was frustrated with her because I knew she could do more, a lot more.  With The Good Girl, Aniston proves to the audience that she is a versatile actor with potential for universal acclaim.  She has started down a road of new discovery and inner depth that made this movie worth every cent I invested into it.The movie, a tragedy in it's own right, is reminiscent of a car wreck waiting to happen.  You can see the inevitable but you deny yourself the truth about what is going to happen.  Not to mention your eyes are peeled to the scene of the accident wondering if the person involved is going to survive this piece of hell they have stumbled upon.The movie is given some light hearted feel through it's dry-humored commentary on middle America.  It's humor in it's simplicity but depressing in it's life style.All and all see this movie.  It's a beautiful study on location, status and character.  And see the role that will lead Aniston into movie making history. "},{"Title":"A very well done character-driven tragic comedy. Aniston shines!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Director Miguel Arteta (Check and Buck) eerily and accurately conveys the feeling of being trapped in a small Texas town. To the other town folk, there's nothing wrong with where they live. They're happy with the Retail Rodeo (an even more bland version of Wal-Mart) as their shopping Mecca, and enjoy coming home after work and just sitting around watching TV. It's what they know and it's just fine with them. They could not imagine living in a big city any more than we can imagine living in their town. You have to wonder, though, aren't there some people in Nowheresville that aren't satisfied with such a humdrum existence? Here there is. Similar to Sunshine State in theme but not feel, The Good Girl has a seemingly boring exterior, but is filled with exciting performances by Jennifer Aniston, Jake Gyllenhaal, Tim Blake Nelson, John C. Reilly, and Zooey Deschanel. The character-driven tragic comedy comes off as quite realistic. Despair, doubt, and desperation are the main themes here with little interest in the good in people. Aniston's character is not actually a good girl, but the lesser of the evils that you're supposed to side with. She does a great job at being someone who is, well, not that great. This is finally her chance to shine after too many seasons on TV and bad film choices. Her comic timing is impressive, as is her ability to play someone who is kind of frumpy and average in appearance. Her choices to change lead her to do things that are not too root for, yet they seem acceptable in a strange kind of way given the circumstances.  At just over 90 minutes, it still seems to drag in places, but that's part of the point. Arteta manages to pull you in and keep you there, but not in a suspenseful way. In fact, there's not a whole lot of action here. You become curious to see what actually happens to these poor souls, no matter how dull they seem. It almost comes off like a play, relying on the strength of the actors to carry the story. If anything were different in the cast or direction it might have fallen apart.  This one is worth going to check out if you're a fan of any of the actors in the film, as they all shine individually even in the ensemble setting. While it's sure to be trapped in arthouses despite the stellar cast, it's worth searching for especially compared with this summer's less-than-stellar releases.   "},{"Title":"Rare authentic storytelling","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Movies, as all stories, resonate for personal reasons.  Nonetheless, this is the best movie I've seen since American Beauty.  A little edgy, dangerous, sad, heartfelt, unpredictable, totally believable, totally rememberable. And oh yes, very, very funny.  Superior dialog, acting, everything.  If only -- IF ONLY -- fifteen such movies were made for $10 million each instead of one at $150 million for overpaid stars in overstuffed special effects dreck. The Good Girl is a gem. "},{"Title":"Wow . . . so movies CAN be literate and intelligent","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great film- it's impossible to discuss the actual plot elements with someone who hasn't actually seen it, so we'll stick to the general good points1) The actors Jennifer Anniston surprises with stunning depth and complexity.  This must have been the hardest role I've seen in years and she pulls it off like she's lived through it.  Gyllenhaal is good too, although his part is somewhat easier.  John C. Reilly, as always, is a pleasure to watch.2) The story So intelligent, well-written, and emotionally aware, it's almost scary.  We've been given a story and situation that everyone should recognize and relate to.  The kicker is this you won't be able to relate to it unless you are able to re-evaluate your own life and times when you've done the so-called right thing. Sound easy?3) The thematics At its heart, _The Good Girl_ is a morality play, pure and simple.  The beauty of it, though, is that it's a morality play which critiques Justine's (and our) preconceived notions about morality and what it is to be good or selfish.  The results, while they may displease some audience members and disturb others, are nothing short of amazing.4) Filming Subtle but powerful use of techniques like deep focus keep you interested but don't get obnoxious or condescending (á là _American Beauty_, _Traffic_, and _The Dreamlife of Angels_).Beautiful.  Give it a spin. "},{"Title":"Mike White is a genius.","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mike White is a genius, and all his movies should be watched by all. Damn funny actor too. He's my damn hero. I know that's pathetic.Jake is good in this too, as always.  The Good Girl was one of the best at Sundance this year. Yeah. Okay. See this movie. "}{"Title":"Oh great another brain dead movie","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I guess a shallow movie with an empty plot is the perfect role for Aniston though.  This must have been type casted.Hmm let's guess the plot here.  Aniston plays a perpetual loser magnet who hates and blames men, for her own lack of judgement and taste.  Oh my poor victim O !!! Anyway she finds some idiot who falls in love with her for her depth and brains. Of course it has nothing to do with her more marketable qualities O!!!Pfftt! yeah right!  Anyways they both fall haplessly in llluuuvvv with each other in some cliched Hollywood charming sort O' way and blah, blah, blah, forever and ever.The End "},{"Title":"Just a straight-up good film","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this next Miguel Arteta/Matt Greenfield/Mike White collaboration that i got to see during a special screening at wesleyan university in CT, we get to see a very different Jennifer Aniston. I have to say, I am not a fan of friends or Aniston (b/c of friends) but she is incredible in this film. It is totally different side of her and her acting abilities and is totally believable in the role. I predict it will be the film that will get her some better roles than that garbage tv show...Anyway, besides Aniston, there's a great supporting cast... and it is Arteta directing at his best and also proves that White is an excellent writer (and actor but his part is pretty small)... It's a good story too, so look out, and go see this film when it hits theatres. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Aniston proves she's an incredible actress.","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've always liked Jennifer Aniston but after this movie she's a superstar to me. She's complicated, compelling and my heart broke with hers. I don't know why this movie isn't getting into theaters?  See it as soon as possible. Deborah Rush is also perfect. "},{"Title":"Goody for sure!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the looks of it, it sounds like a magnificent film that will captivate and shock American audiences. Jennifer Aniston sounds very confident about the role she's playing, which is much different than the character she plays on friends. From the scenes I viewed it's very deep, complex type of film. She looks totally convincing in it. Very opposite (in the best way possible)than her role in Rock Star. It will be an enjoyment to view Aniston in something rather an than a joke.   "},{"Title":"One of Jen's best!","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Good Girl! This is an amazing movie! It's one of Jennifer Aniston's best movies so far! This was my first movie with Jake Gyllenhaal, he is okay but I don't like him very much....I don't know why.The story Justine is 30 years old. And she has her midlife crisis. Justine hates her life! She hates her job. She works at a supermarket Retail Rodeo. But her job is so boring! She also kinda doesn't like her husband. Phil, her husband, and Rubba, her husband's best friend, are painters. Phil drinks very much and because of that he is unfertile. Justine wants to have a baby, Phil too. Her life is crappy.........'til that special day. There is a new assistant in the supermarket, Holden. His real name is Tom but he doesn't really like this name because his parents call him with that name. He is 22 years old and lives at his parent's house. One day Justine and Holden kiss. Next day they go to a motel to sleep together. Nobody knows this....not even Phil. But one day, after they had had sex at the motel, Justine sees Bubba's car in front of the motel. When she comes home Bubba is there and tells her to come to his house after work. Next day she goes there and he tells her that he know about her and Holden. He wouldn't tell it Phil if she sleeps with him. She doesn't want Phil to know so she sleeps with Bubba. A few days later Justine gets pregnant. Bubba or Holden will be the father. She tells Phil that she is pregnant and she also tells him that he'll be the father. One day Holden steals 15,000 from the supermarket's safe to walk away with Justine. She already packed her stuff but then....then she becomes the good girl.....the brave girl.....The End! I don't wanna tell you the end...watch it yourself!It is a brilliant movie with excellent actors, amazing Jennifer Aniston and a very good story! Watch it, it is absolutely worth seeing!10 out of 10 stars for one of Jen's best movies so far! "},{"Title":"Aniston proves she can act well","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Justin (Jennifer Aniston), a married discount store clerk, has an affair with Holden, the emotionally stunted stock boy (Jake Gyllenhaal), in the low-key but engrossing and very good drama. John C. Reilly is good (as always) as the cuckolded pothead husband. But this movie is where Aniston shines, proving that she can do the job IF the scripts behind her. Sadly that hasn't been the case before or since thus far. Mike White did a great writing job, having me run the gambit of how I felt about the character of Justine. Over the course of the film, I alternately pitied, grew infuriated, disgusted with, and melancholy to her. That right there is the sign of a good writer, when he gets us to feel for a character and not just be ambivalent to them. Everyone was a well-rounded fully, realized person in this film. I would be remiss if I didn't make mention of Tim Blake Nelson who plays the husband's friend, I enjoyed his performance in Oh Broter, Where Art Thou more, but that's more of a high praise to that film than any indictment on this one, as he does do an admirable job.My Grade B+ DVD Extras On side A we get the film in widescreen; Commentary by Director Miquel Arteta and actor Mike White; scene specific commentary by Jennifer Aniston; 9 Deleted scenes with optional commentary by Arteta; and alternative ending montage. On side B we have fullscreen; and a gag reel (I have new clue why the powers that be decided to misc this double-sided) Eye Candy Jennifer Aniston is briefly topless, it's about frigging time Anti-Eye Candy Tim Blake Nelson does the full monty "},{"Title":"This movie was good, but it wasn't great. Wondering acting though...","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *Minor Spoilers*The Good Girl like it's title, was good, but to me it wasn't a great movie. It wasn't the best movie in the world. But it was still good. Just the kind of movie you would just watch on HBO or Cinemax or something. It had a mixture of humor and drama.Even thought the movie wasn't that great, the acting was good. Jake Gyllenhaal and Jennifer Aniston did amazing jobs. Although Jennifer sounded kind of crappy doing the southern voice, I'll give her credit for the acting though, but in general she's good actress and she's a beautiful woman. John C. Reilly and Tim Blake Nelson also did a great job so did everybody else.Honestly, the reason I wanted to see this movie was because I love Jake Gyllenhaal and I'm a big fan on Jennifer Aniston's. But the target audience for this film is probably more of adults and/or teenagers, especially if you're into the heart-throb, Jake Gyllenhaal, like me...lol. This movie has some strong sexuality (affairs, masturbation, brief full-frontal nudity of a man, a sexual encounter used for blackmail), some mild drug content, some unexcepted deaths, and one suicide. But this movie was still good. I recommend this film, you should watch it!! I give it a B-  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Performances Can't Save Dull, Unoriginal Film","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this film mainly because I'm a big fan of Jake Gyllenhaal and was quite impressed with his performance in Donnie Darko, and even his performance in October Sky. I'm glad to say that his performance was excellent as always, cementing in my mind the fact that Jake Gyllenhaal will go down in history someday as one of the truly great actors in film history. The surprise was in Jennifer Anniston who's performance on the hit TV show Friends has never been very impressive. She did an excellent job in this film and I was glad to see she has some range.The problem in the film is pointed out by Anniston's character herself at one point while lying in bed with Gyllenhaal I wish someone would write a story about me. Don't know who would read it, though. That's exactly it, nobody wants to hear this story.You know why? It's been done to death. From the first moments of this film, it becomes painfully obvious that this is another one of those trapped-in-a-dead-end-life-and-trying-desperately-to- find-a-way-out kind of movies. This had been done before, and done much better, in films like The Man Who Wasn't There or Clerks, not to mention the novel which this film blatantly references, Catcher in the Rye. So if you're going to do something like this again, you need to find something original and creative to do with it. This film does not. There are a few very funny moments, particularly with the character Cheryl, and at almost exactly the 1 hour mark of the film something happens which I thought would make for an interesting twist to the film, but it didn't pan out the way I thought it would.Afterwards, I figured out that this director had worked on such brilliant television series as Freaks and Geeks, Homicide and Six Feet Under. It's unfortunate that he was involved with such a mediocre piece of film. It's interesting to see it for Anniston and Gyllenhaal's performance, but don't force yourself to sit through the entire film. It does not pay off at the end.  "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was expecting more - maybe that was the problem. 'Rachel's most critically acclaimed outing, man it was dull. Bit quirky, maybe. But dull quirky. Shook the TV, no joy - drank more alcohol, bit better. The other flic, with her and Kevin Bacon - probably not 'critically acclaimed' but alot more watchable and entertaining (though still only a 5.4/10) than this wet Monday. Go out for a walk, phone a sibling, watch the trailer at the very most!!! "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT This movie was not only Jennifer's worst, but Jake's worst as well...pure crap!!  The characters are off...the plots dumb. Honestly would you care if someone you liked killed himself?  Would you try to poison them to get rid of them?   Horrible!! "}{"Title":"Boring and unrealistic","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure how I made it all the way through this movie.  I do know that I deserve some kind of award for making it to the end.Aniston's character (Justine) is completely unrealistic as well as wholly undeveloped.  It's unrealistic that this woman doesn't have a single friend in the movie.  She doesn't even have a sister or brother that lives in the area or a parent that she calls on the phone.  Nothing.  She only interacts with her husband (Phil), whom she finds revolting, and a few people at work, whom she barely acknowledges.  It's as if she's suffered amnesia and awoken to a life with which she is completely unfamiliar.Even small things like her husband and his stoner buddy hanging out on the couch seem forced.  She even has to yell at them for getting paint all over the couch, which is unrealistic because her hubby is clearly a painter who comes home with paint all over him every day -- does she make the same unemotional complaint everyday?The movie has a forced sense of humor and I don't relate to or connect with any of the characters.  The worst part of the movie is the character with whom Justine chooses to cheat on her husband.  The film represents him as some kind of misunderstood romantic, but he comes off as somewhat retarded. I'm not sure if it's a terrible acting job, or if the script/director asked for this portrayal, but it was painful to watch.In the end, the movie was a complete waste of my not so valuable time, which could have been better spent watching a rerun of some reality TV show.I'll give it a 3 out of 10, only because the PA scenes at the supermarket actually made me laugh out loud once. "},{"Title":"Not A Comedy","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After renting several disappointing movies recently I am starting to question the definition of comedy.  My expectation of sitting down to a movie billed as a comedy would be to actually laugh periodically through the film.  The Good Girl could by no means be honestly billed as a comedy. The movie was dark, depressing and pointless.  The acting in this movie was commendable but it was hard to care about any of the characters.  Were we supposed to feel sympathy toward Justine while she thoughtlessly went sleuthing around with no morals and no regard for other people's feelings? The core of the story is an old, worn out one that proves no points and builds up no one.  If Hollywood wants to go out on a limb and make a dark movie, that's fine, but bill it as such.  It's almost as though the film makers wanted to make a daring film, but felt the need to promote it to the masses as a cute little comedy.  Don't pick this one up if you are expecting any light humor. "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found the movie quite boring and extremely disappointing. Jennifer Aniston did try her best and probably this is one of her best performances. However the story just dragged along reaching nowhere that I wished that I had'nt watched it at all. The movie is no comedy, perhaps a drama, with a lot of lousy characters floating around with no zest for life. It goes in a very slow pace with nothing good happening to anybody. The good girl is no good, she kind of makes a vain attempt in trying to be so, but will probably never feel like that about herself and as for the people who end up watching the movie, they are definitely not going to feel good on seeing 'The good girl'. Unless you are a Jennifer Aniston fan or someone who has to watch all the movies, caution dont even think about it. "},{"Title":"did it go over my head? (spoilers contained)","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you want to know how I felt after I watched The Good Girl, think of someone who you don't care about, and then imagine having them stay at your house. I felt so disconnected from Justine that I was convinced the movie must have gone over my head. Maybe we really weren't supposed to care about Justine, because it certainly was not an involving, moving character study. Maybe it was meant as a satire? Well, if it was, it didn't work in that way either. If you still want to see this movie, stop reading NOW. I could see how maybe Justine was supposed to stand for the apathy and stupidity of society, or something like that. Maybe we were supposed to laugh at how much of a b**ch she is. And maybe after Justine ruins Holden's life(which wasn't much of a life anyway), and then tries to pretend he didn't exist, it's supposed to shock us and make us think about the cruel apathy of humanity, or something like that. If it was supposed to do that, it just didn't work. Miguel Arteta and Mike White (or is it just the director's fault?- I don't care to study the film hard enough to decide) just sweep us up into their characters' apathetic depression. Possibly, if Spike Jonze, or Alexander Payne, or perhaps Mike Nichols were involved with this film, they could have given it a sense of ironic detachment, and it might have worked as a very bleak comedy. But no, this film is not detached enough from its characters for us to laugh at them, and we don't care about them enough to laugh with them, either. It was interesting to see Jennifer Aniston be someone not like Rachel at all, but that didn't cut it for me. If you want to see a good, funny movie about a character with a dull life, and a star in an uncharacteristic role, see About Schmidt. "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have no comment, rented from PPV for $3.99, it's not worth watching even if it were free.This movie reflects none of Jennifer Aniston's true ability at acting.  This movie made my husband leave the room to take a shower within the first 10 minutes. "},{"Title":"Disappointed!","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have high hopes about this movie; mainly because of all the good reviews I read from newspapers.  The acting is all right.  Jennifer proves that she can handle serious drama role.  However, the story is very dull starting from the very beginning.  I keep telling myself the story might get better (but instead get a horrible view of Bubba's naked body).  As the story drag on, I find myself no longer care for what happen to the characters and skip the ending. "},{"Title":"Just terrific I want more independent movies like this one!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From a great script Miguel Arteta builds a very solid film about human relationship. This movie is based on the double morality of american people and the thin line between what is right and what is wrong. But each character in the movie has his own line (which, in most cases, does not match with the established by the people of this small-town). So, the script plays with all these subtle differences among each character's line between the good and the bad.Jennifer's performance deserves a special mention she has built her character in a very natural way, so that Justine has all the credibility that her character needs (thanks to Jennifer's expressive sight and her serenity in front of the camera). From my point of view a firm candidate to be an Oscar nominee as best actress in a leading role. "},{"Title":"Dark, Darker, Darkest","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I owe Aniston an apology. Contrary to popular perception, she CAN act as demonstrated brilliantly in this rich black comedy about unfulfilled expectations and depression.Her indifferent pathos when Bubba, her husbands best friend, is on top of her and about to come, is only one of many brilliant scenes in this movie.Every character is a parody here, and wherever usual cinema would take a right in the plot, this movie takes a left. Set in a dull boring supermarket, it is a slow, at times painfully slow movie. Yet it is the slowness that makes it even darker, since life can never match up to cinematic pace.Anistons choice in the end is what sets the movie apart and the fact that the choice wasnt really one also comes across really well. The plot is well thought out, and Aniston extricates herself from a very difficult decision.Holden's intense passion slowly unravels into maniacal mental decadence, and Bubbas Salvation in blackmailing Aniston to sleep with him is a stroke of genius.Other gems include the pothead painter husband, who paints houses all day with Bubba and makes statements like You know..sometimes..i wanna paint a house so that when you look at it from different angles, it shows different colours.. and in the end we all need to escape sometimes you know..In effect that summarizes the movie which is on the surfac about anistons attempt to escape from her life and her innate inability to do so. Romance is given an official and right royal burial here.The Public Announcement Girl who says F** you very much to the customer and Ladies please clean your dirty pipes over the PA system and the Bible study group guy who hopes aniston rots in hell, reflect how well the script satires religious groups and rebels at the same time. Add to this the pseudo good girl in this movie, (Aniston's partner in make up, ) dying, and this movie shows that it is determined to kill and destroy with great sarcastic pleasure, all hypocrisy in society, by being hypocritical in itself.The star by far, is Aniston..(maybe brad pitt is finally rubbing off on her)..and in the end..she is the good girl. With good being defined flexibly, by the prevelant mores. For better or for worse, she stays the  good girl.I hope this movie wins an oscar..though its probably not gonna happen what with all the big budget movies lined up...but i do hope it gets at least a nomination. "},{"Title":"Scaringly Realistic","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *spoilers*Talk about realism. This movie will make you think twice about having an affair.  I was totally enthralled in this movie. Temptation, contemplation, resignation, sin. Sin=death.  It was pretty heavy and painfully real.  Although, I can't speak from experience, this portrayal of infidelity will shake you up if being unfaithful had crossed your mind. Think twice.  Every actor does a great job. Especially, the young actor opposite Anniston. Wow. What a great dramatic actor. Jennifer A. stretches her wings and takes risks.  You see a vulnerability in her that you only see traces of on FRIENDS. I hope she seeks out more roles that allow her to grow. She has more to her than just a sharp wit.8/10 "},{"Title":"Aniston rules in this tragically funny drama","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, I love Jennifer Aniston.  She delivers a performance completely different from her Friends TV show character.  She does a great job with a Southern accent here, as she plays a less affluent counterpart to Diane Lane's wealthy character from Unfaithful.  This is a story about Aniston cheating on her pot-smoking, thick-headed  husband.  It is seemed like a comedy from the advertisements.   But it's really a drama.  The whole cast is good; but Aniston makes the movie.  8 stars from me.  "}{"Title":"Intelligent film, showing Aniston *is* a good actor","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kudos to Jennifer Aniston for taking this role - showing she's more than capable of transcending the Rachel role. I enjoyed this film for its humour, its quietness and its pathos. It reminded me a bit of the British kitchen-sink genre of the 1960s.The film had a lot to say about ordinary lives - where nothing exciting ever seems to happen, every day is the same, and people worry that they are wasting away their lives. Obviously, some cinema viewers don't like to be reminded of that, preferring movies about escapism. This film is precisely about why we can't always escape. And all of the characters in the film seem to be oriented to this. Whether it's vegetarianism and having a positive outlook, like poor doomed Gwen, or bible classes, like Corny, they're all looking for a way to make things better, to cope with it all. Zooey Deschanel (who gets all the best lines as the acerbic, drawling intercom announcer) has found her own coping strategy - ambiguously insulting the customers - it's a role that Parker Posey could have played about five years ago, and Deschanel makes the most of it.Not everyone will like this film. It doesn't do all the work for you. Things aren't wrapped up neatly. The characters are flawed - that's the point of it. And there are no explosions - even an exciting gun seige happens *off-screen*. But it's not a typical chick-flick either. It's much too dark to be a romantic comedy. Instead this is an off-beat, smart drama. I look forward to future films by Mike White. "},{"Title":"Is this a movie?","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was that a movie I just saw? I find it hard to believe that this one gets a rating over 7 here... I thought I was watching some low-budget movie. I cannot believe that Jennifer Aniston said yes to play in this awfull movie. There is no suspence, no drama, no laugh, no tear, no nothing in this film. In one word awfull!! "},{"Title":"You cannot be serious!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seriously, I cannot believe I watched this whole movie. I felt the acting was mediocre...the plot was ridiculous...argh! I had high hopes for this one and I feel I just wasted 90 minutes! And no matter how hard Jennifer Aniston tried to be a normal looking woman unhappy with her life, she was still stunning and unbelievable in the role. "},{"Title":"A TOTAL waste of mind-numbing time!","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, what a total waste of time and mind. The actors sleep walked through a mind-numbing script about virtually nothing. Deschanel was the only thing worth watching in the entire movie as the catty co-worker. I was so totally disapointed that I can't believe it. Aniston was no better here than on TV. She is a Soap Opera quality actress at best.  Why anyone would write a story or shoot a movie about a Walmart Worker without a brain, I have no idea.  Aniston's character runs her life by listening to her heart instead of asking any opinion of her mind at all.  She is a thirty year old making high school decisions that ultimately lead her life to ruin. Why anyone would think that this film noir would be a comedy is beside me.  Shot after shot of Joe Average in Middle America's Nowheresville doesn't interest me.  You could go to your local chain store and talk to people and get a more interesting story than this.  3 of 10 and I'm being generous.        "},{"Title":"nice try, but the failure is unequivocal","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm so pleased when a filmmaker goes out on a limb avoiding typical Hollywood formula that I sometimes rush to the theater like a blind naked mole rat vainly searching for decent sustenance.  In this case, I found myself chewing on something less than appetizing.For this movie to work, it is absolutely imperative that we believe Jennifer Aniston's attraction to Jake Gyllenhaal.  Failing that, we have to see in one of them at least some talent or ambition -- a dream that they can make a better life if they throw away a boring, if secure, existence.  They both do risky and self-destructive things in the name of breaking out.  There have to be a compelling reasons.But those reasons never show up.  Jennifer Aniston has been lauded as a serious actor for her performance, but the only difference from her Friends persona I can discern is that she cut out the perky.  The result is one-dimensional.  And though I love Jake Gyllenhaal, he missed the mark, too, coming off less as psychologically disturbed than as just plain stupid. I went to see art, but I got Jerry Springer.  What a rip off!One of the few bright spots was Tim Blake Nelson.  When he yells at his dog to Go to your spot, I couldn't help laughing, even though it was a little horrifying at the same time.  Now that is dark comedy.Don't get me wrong, I don't blame Jake and Jennifer.  But the only kudos they get is for trying.  Too bad a good idea and some impressive talent were wasted. "},{"Title":"The Stupid Girl - Contains spoilers","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What is this movie supposed to be?  A black comedy?  A satire?  A serious film inculcating moral values?  A drama about dead-end lives in Middle America?  What, what, what?  It works as none of the above.I'd retitle this film The Stupid Girl.  Here we have Justine, a thirty-year-old woman who appears to be of normal intelligence.  She's married to Phil, a pot-smoking slob who works as a house painter.  For the past seven years, Justine has worked at the cosmetic counter of Retail Rodeo, the film's version of K-Mart or Wal-Mart.  She's bored to death with her life.So, Justine, why don't you do something about this situation?  You are childless, therefore, without the pressing responsibilities of raising children.  Even in this Podunk area of the world, there must be a community college nearby where you could take courses in the evening or daytime (I'm sure Retail Rodeo could give you a work schedule to accommodate your school schedule).  And you could begin to make a life for yourself.As shown here, Justine doesn't even have a hobby.  She does nothing but work at Retail Rodeo, come home, and flip on the TV in her bedroom.Nothing in the film made me want to laugh at Justine.  Yet, I couldn't feel an iota of sympathy for Justine or any of the other characters in this film, for none was shown to be doing a thing to better himself in life.The film's plot is implausible at many points.  Most implausible of all is that Justine didn't simply dump everything and go.  There are always defining moments in everyone's life, that moment when we must take the plunge, go off the high diving board for whatever reason.  For some, that reason is utter boredom or a pileup of events that make a person's current life untenable.  Justine doesn't have such a defining moment here.  Is that testimony to her complete and utter stupidity?  I guess I'm to assume so, which further alienates me for her character.I went to this film with high expectations.  Director Arteta had previously made Chuck and Buck and Star Maps, both of which I liked.  Mike White wrote the screenplay here; he'd done the same for Chuck and Buck.Jennifer Aniston, who plays the lead, has a major TV career in Friends.  But I do not watch TV, so I have never before seen her.  Apparently, many viewers were impressed with Aniston here because this part is so different from the part she plays in Friends.  I don't know that such a difference automatically means good acting.It's astonishing how similar Toby Maguire and Jake Gyllenhaal are.  Maybe Maguire cloned himself and will make the Spiderman sequels and other mainstream films under his Maguire name and the art and indy films under the Gyllenhaal name.  Well, whatever his name, I like him.I left the film feeling irritated that I had spent 93 minutes of my time in the company of such losers.  I wouldn't even recommend one see this film on cable or video.  It's a real must-not-see. "},{"Title":"Good Girl, Bad Movie","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My girlfriend bugged me for weeks about this movie. I will admit that it had some hilarious moments with that bible-thumping security guard, but the rest of the movie made me feel sick.  The sex scenes made me queasy and the feel of the movie was so uncomfortable.  Jennifer Aniston is a great actress and she did an excellent job, but this movie was horrible. "},{"Title":"Burned Out","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Justine Last is not a happy woman. A clerk at The Retail Rodeo, a smaller, secondhand version of K -Mart, she spends her workdays under garish florescent lights watching the same customers' comings and goings through the store's drab portals After a boring day's work she drives home to her small ranch house to be greeted by the sight of her house painter husband Phil and his friend and co-worker Bubba sprawled out on the couch watching t.v. and getting stoned. Having just turned 30, unable to get pregnant and feeling stifled by life in a small Texas town, Justine is ready for something new and exciting to happen in her life. She unwittingly finds it in the form of Holden , a stockboy at the store who has grand designs to be a writer , reads The Catcher in the Rye and shares Justine's morose view of the world. For a brief time these two experience a new sense of euphoria before reality sets in. Justine finds herself inexorably attracted to this social misfit, 10 years her junior and still living at home with his uncommunicative parents. As the friendship quickly deepens into a full -blown affair, Justine finds it harder and harder to manage her life. Secret motel trysts and furtive couplings in the store backroom inevitably lead to gossip, and what originally seemed so idyllic becomes a miasma of alibis , blackmail and guilt by association. Mike White's original screenplay makes all this palatable because he and director Miguel Arteta are able to mine the humor in the situation, which actually gives the picture a compassion towards the characters it might not otherwise have had. The actors do an exemplary job here. Jake Gyllenhal, who is in danger of being typecast as the younger love interest ( he has a similar role in the current LOVELY AND AMAZING ) , seems to play a typical young hearthrob until his character takes a dramatic dark turn that is remarkable for its naturalness. John C. Reilly is an affable presence as Justine's floundering spouse and Tim Blake Nelson is a pathetic and menacing comic foil who proves to be an important catalyst in the story's second half. The Retail Rodeo employees are all instantly recognizable types but the screenplay makes them more than just caricatures. Mike White , the film's scenarist , has a few hilarious moments as a born again security guard who tries to goad Justine into going to a weekly Bible Study class. As for Jennifer Aniston as Justine, I cannot praise her highly enough. This is a great performance. There have already been the inevitable comparisons between her portrayal here and the character Rachel that she plays on the t.v. sitcom FRIENDS. There is no comparison. Having proved to be a fine television comedienne on a wildly successful series , Ms. Aniston has ably performed in a number of feature films over the past several years. In THE GOOD GIRL she gives a performance of great range and depth. As Justine she seems to carry the weight of the world on her shoulders ; desperate for change , she is searching for a modicum of happiness in her life. Unlike many films, THE GOOD GIRL doesn't condescend to its characters or the audience. You walk out of the theatre feeling that you've witnessed real life , and one of the best movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Very interesting film, nice departure for Aniston","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I quite enjoyed this movie.  An interesting story that is certainly not your typical hollywood fare and that appeals to me.  I thought Jennifer Aniston did an excellent job of portraying the small town girl who's in a dead end job, a lifeless marriage and sees her life floating uselessly along but unsure exactly what the heck to do about that.  There were no weak performances, I really enjoyed John C. Reilly and Tim Blake Nelson and Jake Gyllenhaal was quite good as the angst ridden youth.   There are no heros in this movie and no villains.  I sympathized for all the characters in some way (or pitied them).  I also enjoyed the treatment of the infidelity, rather than guiding the viewer to support one side over the other we see both sides.  No one is really the bad person, it's just poor choices, or is it even that?  It's just life.  Coming from a small town I completely appreciated this film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good Flick!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My friends! Without a doubt, the most talented actress of the `Friends' superstar bunch is Jennifer Aniston. She proves that one more time in the new small-town black comedy `The Good Girl'. Aniston stars as a department store clerk living in agony of small town entrapment. She is married to a pothead painter also wonderfully played by one of the best character actors in the business- John C. Reilly. Aniston's good girl character falls for a younger demented co-worker who call himself `Holden' after the lead character of the literary classic `The Catcher in the Rye'. The part is played by Jake Gyllenhaal  who again brings the Donnie Darko in him as `Holden'. Tim Blake Nelson executed another major nelson performance as the pothead painter's devoted friend. However, it is multi-talented Mike White's role as the store's preaching security guard in my book which should be hailed as one of the best supporting performances of the year so far. White, who also gets kudos for writing a very intrinsic screenplay, is one of the most underrated talents in the industry.  It is a fact that many others in the independent film industry would like to act and write like Mike. I should also inform you not to change that channel when Zooey Deschannel appears on screen as the dumb-witted lifeless beautician. The Screen Actors Guild should be a `good guild' and recognize the ensemble acting of `the good girl' for a SAG nomination.  Director Miguel Arteta , who also collaborated with White on the wicked deliciously twisted `Chuck & Buck' , is one true independent aueter. So take your good girl or your bad girl (no, in that case stay home) and meet `The Good Girl' today! ***** Excellent  "}{"Title":"Well Written, Well Acted","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a good character-driven drama, with a lot of comedy thrown in. Some of the dialogue is absolutely hilarious.  The acting is very well done. The plot moves and a good pace and the direction is good.  There is nothing to detract from this being a very fine movie. "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lonely discount store employee's (Jennifer Aniston) life is empty and without meaning. Her husband (John C. Reilly) is always stoned, she has fallen out of love with him and she doesn't really have any friends. A new employee (Jake Gyllenhaal) falls in love with her and understands her lonely existence completely. Problem is, he is much younger then her and she doesn't want to hurt anyone. It's her last chance.....is she going to take it? Aniston is 100% completely convincing in a non- Racheal like role that could result in her walking off with an Oscar nod or doing what Erin Brockovich did for Julia Roberts. Sharply observed with a wicked sense of humor and many tender moments. This film goes in directions you would not expect, but manages to be convincing the whole time. The ending is a real heart breaker.Rated R; Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Sickening, Depressing, Great!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was completely different from what I thought it would be. First of all, I only laughed maybe a couple of times during the entire movie. I see it as a drama with a few laughs instead of a comedy with some dramatic moments. The acting in the movie is wonderful, especially Jennifer Aniston. I saw the movie and not once did I see her Friends character, Rachel, in Justine, which was different from any of her other movies. She definitely deserves an Oscar nomination. In the movie, none of the characters are perfect. Yet you get to care about almost every one of them. It is sometimes depressing that you see them make decision that you know are wrong, but ultimately you are hoping that things will work out for all of them. The story takes unexpected turns that will surprise you, will make you want to cry, but in the end you just hope you just hope that everything that happened was for the best and you can't help but wonder where Justine's life will go from where the story left of. There should be more movies like this, my favorite movie of the year so far.Overall Grade 10/10 "},{"Title":"good girl makes for a bad movie","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i was initially curious about this movie since this was the first role in which jennifer aniston plays a realistic role.  but reality does not suit her.  her performance was less than mediocre, her portrayal of her dilemma totally unconvincing, and she did nothing to improve a terrible script. after a fantastic job with 'chuck and buck', i was expecting a little more creativity and originality from mike white than what we actually got.  if you absolutely feel the need to see it, wait until it comes out on dvd/video because it wasn't worth my $10. "},{"Title":"The Great Girl!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was strongly anticipating this movie as I had heard good things about it from its debut earlier this year at Sundance. Today I finally saw it as it was shown at a theater near me and I was not disappointed. In fact, it is my favorite movie of 2002 thus far. The story about a woman bored with her mundane life who feels like she is trapped in a prison is something that people can relate to. It is freshly directed and fortunately avoids many cliches it seems headed towards at first. This is topped off by strong performances (Aniston is great) and a biting screenplay. This is the film's fourth week and it is now playing fairly wide after three weeks of strong business in limited release. People, give it a try. Support a well-made little movie so that we can see  more gems like it. The good girl turned out to be great! "},{"Title":"Anniston Shines in Typical Small Texas Town","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In case there was any doubt, The Good Girl proves that Jennifer Aniston is not in fact Rachel Green, her character on Friends. Her Justine Last has very different mannerisms and foibles and she really does carry the whole movie herself, helped tremendously by wonderful actors around her, especially Jake Gyllenhaal in a much more unhinged version of his character in Lovely and Amazing. She manages to make us understand a woman who hesitates then passionately breaks out of a trap then hesitates again to sad consequences, and with very sympathetic regrets. She creates a complete person of the mime in the room (only able to use a voice-over), blocked wherever she turns for breathing space.While this view of a Texas small town is a bit over-the-top in stultification, it's certainly an acceptable movie and country music convention, like the people who don't leave in the song that should have been used in the film Small Town Saturday Night The world ain't round/Drops off sharp at the edge of town/ You know the world must be flat/Cause when people leave town, they never come back.(originally written 9/2/2002) "},{"Title":"The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First things first it must be stressed that if you're not a fan of Jennifer Aniston this film is sure to change you're opinion. I quite like her myself, but her role in 'The Good Girl' is a far cry from spoilt girl and Ralph Laurent employee Rachael Green in 'Friends'.In this dark comedy Aniston plays an everyday woman who's only enlightenment is working at the Retail Rodeo. She is unhappy in her marriage to Phil, or just bored. What first surprises you is that Phil isn't a bad guy and in some ways you can't understand why she is unhappy exactly, because apart from smoking weed and hanging out with loser 'Bubba', he treats Justine (Aniston) with love and respect. A mysterious young guy named Holden (Jake Gyllenhaal) catches her eye at work. He is an unhappy and troubled teenager which attracts Justine and she befriends him. This is the beginning of a troublesome few weeks for Justine. They start a steamy affair and Justine gets caught up in a lot of bother, to put it in a nice way. Justine is unfaithful to Phil, but deep down isn't a bad girl, hence the title of the film. The ending is somewhat tragic but also happy. This film is different and surprising. You go through many emotions watching the film. Its a great movie. Yes its not full of action but the story is so dark and there are a few funny moments. Personally Aniston has gone up in my estimation and her acting in this film is brilliant, possibly because it is so different to her other roles in films like Picture Perfect, Object of my Affection etc. Very good! "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting - Totally Depressing Plot!","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this partly because it got a three star rating and partly to see how Jennifer Aniston fared in a non Friends type role. She had almost become typecast in the fluffy ditzy blonde mold. The surprise in this film is that she played totally against type and proved that she really can act. In fact the acting all round was pretty good.SPOILERS AHEADThe film itself, however, was depressing fare. The plot concerns a housewife in a dead-end job and a dead-end marriage. She meets a young man at her supermarket job, who is very introverted and deep, and unlike anyone she has met before. They begin an affair, but she quickly realises that her new lover is bordering on psychotic. Jake Gylenhall plays the part well, not least because he looks weird! (Heart throb? Come on Girls - you need to get out more!!).Things go from bad to worse, as Aniston gets blackmailed, pregnant (with someone's baby - but we aren't sure who) and numerous people die. In fact, it becomes quite comically dark at times, but not enough to really laugh at and lift the depression!The end is slightly more upbeat, but hardly a happy ending. Avoid if you need cheering up!I rated it 6/10  "},{"Title":"Men will not get this GREAT movie","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Any woman who has ever viewed her marriage or life as a non-event (which happens to all of us from time to time) will love this dark-humored comedy/drama.Along with War of the Roses and Crimes of the Heart, this made my list of favorite dark comedies.Jennifer surprised me by her courage to choose a character not just fluffy, perky and pretty - and her realistic portrayal of this wife wanting/needing something more made me smile with each new sad/funny event.The standout performance however was by the husband. His touch upon the confused husband character was light but realistic, and dead-on perfect.The husband's best friend was funny and scary. I think I dated this guy once. . . maybe twice.I know people like these characters - we all know people like these characters.I catch this movie on our movie channel any time it comes on - what a refreshing change from the usual comedy fare.Favorite Movie Song of the Movie Ride Ride - by Annie Briggs  "},{"Title":"Beyond ordinary","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a down beat movie made around a story not worth telling. There is nothing to enjoy in the story. The audience is hard pressed to find a character to like. I didn't like any of them. Initial sympathy for the main character (Aniston) quickly evaporates. In fact that is the only quick thing about the movie. The story moves slowly , put the pace of this story in a race with a snail and the snail wins. The infertile, dope smoking, lazy arsed slob husband is possibly the only character with any redeeming qualities. He is loyal to his wife. Or maybe he is just too stupid to figure it all out.The acting on average was very good. But good acting of a fundamentally bad scene still makes it a bad scene. The story is what lets this movie down, it goes no where slowly. I have no idea why this dreadful story was made in to a movie? "}{"Title":"Over-hyped and dreary","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having heard such a lot about the wonderful, 'critically-acclaimed' performance from Jennifer  Aniston, I was hugely disappointed by this dull little dirge of a movie. Aniston wasn't  dreadful, but she certainly wasn't great or surprising or 'break-through' or even mildly  interesting, come to that. It could be argued that The Good Girl is at least closer to 'reality' in its representation of  ordinary, working-class folk in Dullsville, USA, and it is, and this is refreshing and not seen  often enough to my liking, but to really work, the film needs a dynamic, moving 'heart' and in  Aniston's portrayal of the film's lead, Justine, it simply doesn't get it.To express 'glumness', Aniston's physical acting seemed non-existent - wooden, stilted,  awkward. Matched with a more expressive face, this could have worked, but instead it came  off robotic. It was hard to empathise with her, even though her life-dilemmas were really  huge and awful. Aniston's 'Friends' persona is very physically expressive, and she has good  comic timing, It felt to me as though she was merely playing the diametric 'opposite' to  Rachel Green; an anti-Rachel in every possible way. Gyllenhall also seemed disappointing, although I wasn't sure if it was his 'character' Holden  who was irritating me mostly here, so I decided to reserve judgement. I guess part of my  problem with Aniston was that I really wanted to LIKE her character Justine, based on her  story and the problems she encounters and creates, but I simply couldn't, which was almost  entirely Aniston's fault. "},{"Title":"Boring and terrible","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  **SPOILERS AHEADJustine works at the Retail Rodeo and hates her job. She also suffers from an unsatisfying marriage.One day, she takes interest in her coworker, Holden. Holden is quiet, shy, withdrawn and soon she finds out he is depressed. He too lives an unhappy life and lives with his parents.Holden and Justine connect and have an affair. Soon Justine's guilt catches up with her and she debates whether she should even be in the relationship. But Holden persists and takes his infatuation with Justine to the extreme -- he robs the Retail Rodeo in hopes of starting a new life with her.Both characters are selfish. Justine yearns for a new life but doesn't do anything to pursue her dream. She turns her back on Holden and rats him out. And that ends with Holden killing himself in a stand off with the cops.Justine doesn't want her husband to know about the affair and goes as low as sleeping with her husband's best friend Bubba to conceal it. She also lies about her pregnancy and claims the baby belongs to her husband. But it is clear that the baby is not Jack's.Lastly, Justine doesn't even visit or tend to her sick friend Gwen. This is sad because Gwen was a good friend and yet she even turns her back on her at the hospital to meet up and have some sex with Holden.As for Holden, he is selfish because he is asking Justine to join him on his road to a new life but what does he offer her? He just wishes to die so he can become famous and get his writings noticed.* Personally, I like dramas but I consider The Good Girl to be weak. I can stand fiction but I have to say that this one was a little too unrealistic. It's amazing how Justine can move on with her life knowing that she caused the death of someone else and is is STILL lying to her husband Jack.Her husband Jack is the only sympathetic character in the story.  "},{"Title":"She was good.  And every man in her town knew it.","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  So that is the underlying message of this movie.  She was so good that people would jeopardize their friendships, would do anything for her. This should have been the tagline.But seriously, I did not like this movie.  Nor am I a major fan of the actors, but I can tolerate them.  I don't care much for Jake Gyllenhaal. After watching him portray Holden (Tom) Worther in this movie, I don't think I'll be rushing out to see him in any of his other movies.  It's not that he does a bad job.  All the actors were decent.  I found Aniston to be very amusing.  As was Zooey Deschanel, in her role of a crazy clerk.  The reason I saw this movie, though, was because I thought it would be funny, like Office Space.  Jennifer Aniston+crappy job=Office Space.  That's the way my thought process went.  I couldn't have been more wrong.  This movie could be classified as a dark comedy or a satire of suburban life.  However, humor was the only thing this movie had going for it because all other ingredients failed, and there were so pitifully few laughs.  Perhaps I should be honest about why I really loathed this movie.  It was primarily thanks to Holden (once again, no offense to Jake.  He did all he could).  I didn't like his character.  See, I have this theory that there are certain circumstances that warp a sympathetic character in a work of fiction (since fiction seems to be more comprehensible than actual human nature.)  Holden defied my set boundaries, proving himself to be a character that I just could not relate to.   Apparently, having parents who spend their whole life watching TV is enough to drive you insane as well.  The funny thing is, I knew all this, and still I found it pathetic.  His parents were mere carictures, simply put.  And I saw no parallels between his relationship with his parents (the main influences in his life) and his relationship with others.  That is pretty much impossible because I would have to make stuff up about his mother and father, so little was given to us besides the fact that they liked their daily programming as does your average American family.  The only slightly related example I can think of off the top of my head is Ally Sheedy's character in Breakfast Club, whose parents ignored her.  But even then, she acted bizarrely, most likely because she wanted attention. With Holden, it was that nobody understood him, so he became angry when others didn't try to. I don't know.  I'm confused.  His character was just a mess. The writer's excuse for him is depression.  A weak one, when creating a fictional character, in my opinion, right down their with alcoholism. That means you refuse to develop the character beyond a stereotype.  I suppose his parents caused the depression, but as I said before, they were not developed either. Aniston basically plays a woman who is fed up with her husband and her job and her life, and then in walks this mysterious stranger who also hates his life, and they fall in love.  Blah blah blah.  Extra-marital affair, death, despair, dilemmas, cops, more death.  Blah blah blah. And one more thing (this could be considered a SPOILER) this movie seems to condone lying to your husband and making him believe that your baby is also his, when it most likely isn't.  Never mind the husband, who in this case, knew there was another man.  What about the child, who most likely will never find out that his/her mother was a tramp.  It's like forcing that kid to live a lie.  Their whole life, their mom's pulling one over them. Doesn't seem right.  I give this movie a 2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"The Dumb Girl","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Girl sticks Anniston in the center as a stoic middle class working wife stuck in a dead-end job and a dead-end marriage. Given her plight, she makes a series of blunders with unusual consequences sufficient garner both critical plaudits and a respectable score on this website. Bland, understated, darkly comedic, and sneeringly sardonic, this downer indie plays of the grass is greener weakness of just about every female who has ever felt her relationship was running on little more than inertia (and who hasn't). Save its curious off-kilteredness, this flick has little entertainment value and will play best with Jerry Springer audience-types. More dry drivel but a step up from the makers of Upchuck and Buck.  (B-) "},{"Title":"Gloomy and depressing drama results in disappointing flick","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aniston deserves much more than this gloomy take on small town life.  The film suggests that one can never truly be happy in such an environment. The film demeans its characters, showing them in bad light throughout. The film is unsympathetic to the characters populating its story.  The audience ends up watching an uncomfortably hopeless drama that is depressing to the end. Still, the film is also somewhat shallow in that it treats  its mentally-ill  protagonist (Holden) with (a disturbing) contempt yet makes no effort to tackle his illness seriously.   "},{"Title":"The GOOD girl??","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Girl displayed a breakthrough role for Jennifer Aniston? No! Yes, she broke through some barriers many thought she wouldn't. The fact that she agreed to play her part in this movie shows quite a bit. The title in itself is complete irony. Aniston is this horrid, unintelligent (sense wise), lying, adulteress. Hardly a Good Girl. Not only was Aniston's Texas accent unconvincing, so was her marriage with an unattractive, pothead of a man, Phil (played by John C. Reilly). Her actions throughout the movie grew more and more frustrating to the point where you must wonder if she has any morals, dignity, or common sense.Holden (Tom) is intriguing initially, but gets increasingly annoying and childish. (Jake Gyllenhaal was very impressive in this role, however, and became quite convincing.) Feeling sorry for him rather than cheering him on was common. The relationship between Holden and Justine(Aniston) isn't cute or promising. Very far from that. Aside from characters and acting, the transition from scene to scene was choppy and unclear of time frame. Nudity of the far from handsome Bubba was unnecessary as well as the sex scenes, which were far too drawn out.The best character in the entire movie was Cheryl, played by Zooey Deschanel. She was humorous and cynical, while bringing snickers throughout the theatre. Take from this what you will. This is merely one's opinion!  "},{"Title":"a REAL love story","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a story about real people in a not so ideal town. When you don't have much, it does not take much to entice you. Aniston and Gillenhall do a fantastic job in this context. Infatuation is a strong and real emotion. This film shows this FULLY. Along with the consequences. Deep and enjoyable. Highly recommended. The addition of Deschanel is excellent. She is very funny and an unexpected breath of life into this movie. And Stranger's With Candy mother Deborah Rush is also fantastic. She does not have the wit that I'm used to, from Stranger's, but is still very good. Infatuation is one of the strongest emotions I have ever dealt with. This movie really hits home. Please ENJOY. "},{"Title":"Absolutely fantastic.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best films I've seen in a long time and truly defines the term, Black Comedy.I haven't laughed this hard in ages.  If you have a sick and dry sense of humor, this is for you.Absolutely wonderful. "},{"Title":"Moving, Poignant; yet Comical. It's a hit","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Aniston is the star of this Texas film, she plays a Texas store clerk Justine Last who is un sure of her life, and needs to find passion again because things just aren't happening with her pothead husband Phil. They have hit a dead end in their marriage. Phil deosn't realize that that smoking a joint hurts him, and the family they want to have.When Aniston meets Holden is falls for his youth, and falls in love with him, throwing herself into an soon to be unwanted affair, with an added on pregnancy. I won't tell you anymore of a summary because there are already many out there. This is an outstanding performance from Aniston, and shows what is can do; more then Rachel. It is a poignant performance, and is fresh and never seen before, Jennifer at her best** "},{"Title":"insightful realism that pains","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The good girl takes a slow, intrinsic journey, reminiscent of the escapism films of the 70's, like Kes and Darling, though this southern yarn puts a modern twist on the 'escape from the mundane' theme with insightful, heartfelt and wonderfully quotable dialogue. Jennifer Aniston as the worn down Justine is very believable, and opens a window on the reality of life that is always hidden, with her slurred epiphanies and cool contemplativeness. Jake Gyllenhaal is like wise suited to his role as Holden,obsessive loser and endearing youth with his mournful eyes and pouting lips. With subtle and clever comedy moments, the good girl is an intelligent film with an ambiguity that is both unsatisfying and compelling. "}{"Title":"What in the name of God is wrong with the critics in this country?","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Girl was one of the worst movies I saw in 2002.  I went to see it because I'm a fan of Jake Gyllenhall after Donnie Darko, an excellent, offbeat little flick if ever there was one.  I also usually enjoy Jennifer Aniston, but unfortunately, she seems to have fallen into the abyss of if I squinch my face up enough, it looks like I'm having emotions school of acting.  She was bloody awful, to say the least.   In fact, I feel that this could have been a decent movie had someone else been cast in her role.  Its script is not strong enough to make it a good movie, but the lack of acting ability on her part truly destroys whatever good side it could have had.  Jake Gyllenhall was excellent, as per usual, but neither he nor any of the other actors could save this one.  And for the love of all things holy, did we really have to see Tim Blake Nelson full frontal?  "},{"Title":"A tour de force of how not to make a black comedy!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had a three-fer this weekend.  Three horrible movies in a row. The Rocky does Alcatrez cuss fest called Undefeated...actually so bad it doesn't deserve comment in this forum, then  WHAM! follow that with Serving Sarah....unspeakably slow  mall movie goo, and then...Well friends...pardon the pun, this one is el stinker-roo magnifico!I'll give one this.  Black comedy is hard to do.  The last one I liked was Catch -22.  So this is hallowed ground these attempts to make life's bad things be funny. This one doesn't  get it done.Ok here it is, The Good Girl, isn't funny, it isn't well acted, it is slow, it is long and all the trite unimaginative things it tries to do fall with the thud of a sure looser.The artsie fartsie critics seem to be all silly about this thing but believe me it will leave you cold and wondering who put the cash up for such a dog.So here I am ...it's Sunday and the only good movie in town is Big Fat Greek Wedding...so maybe for my Labor Day movie I'll go see it again.Staying home and sorting my sock drawer would be better than this thing.  Don't be taken in by the  reviews that say anything good about it.  There is nothing good about it except I don't have to think about it after warning my fellow movie fans to be sure and miss this one! "},{"Title":"Those Most Depressing Comedy I've Ever Seen","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was the most depressing comedy I've ever seen.  I thought it was going to be a cute, funny, chick flick.  It was a boring, depressing, dramatic, nothing.  The acting was good, but other than that, the movie plot was horrible.  I mean one person responsible for everyone elses depressing problems, deaths, etc.  I wouldn't have paid 1 cent to rent it had I known! "},{"Title":"Leave this stuff to the Europeans!","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an ill-fated attempt by Hollywood to make a European movie about a Sartresque issue, the (non)sense of life. It poses some interesting questions, but it is not dark enough, it cannot escape from the endemic US optimism that creeps up every now and then, even in such a film. Thanks god, such things are much better left to Europeans, Hollywood should go on doing what it is best at... Great entertainment!On a surprisingly positive note, Jennifer Aniston is great in her role, one would never have expected she can actually do a 'serious' role (no disrespect intended)... As one critic put it, 'Her performance is forceful and effective'. I could not agree more. "},{"Title":"Life goes on...","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay so the basic premise of this movie is about a married woman that works in retail and is unhappy with her life so she goes off and has a affair. Now I am not really a fan of Jennifer Aniston, but it's nice to see she is doing something new and her acting his actually pretty good in this and sort of memorable. The plot just wasn't that good although sort of engaging at times, but that is about it. Lot of the minor characters are pointless in this also and doesn't really serve a purpose in the story and just isn't developed well at all. Jake Gyllenhaal however put on a great performance though, since his character is realistic mostly because I seen some people act the way he does and he played it almost flawlessly. Although his character got weirder as the movie progressed. The movie is sort of like a black comedy with hardly any humor, and the direction just isn't executed very well either. In fact the movie starts out pretty well but I started to lose interest as the film progressed. Overall it's a pretty forgetful movie, the only memorable aspect of this movie is Aniston and Gyllenhaal performances. The other parts are just alright, nothing really special besides the premise of it which I liked.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"It was nice to see Jennifer Aniston in something that wasn't a romantic comedy.","Date":"22 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We're so used to seeing Jeniifer Aniston in all of these dreadful romance movies, like Love happens(ugh). But there were times where she did something fresh. Like her role in friends, and in 2002's The Good girl, which she gives her best performance.Aniston plays Justine, a woman who is in a marriage that she can't stand, a job she can't stand. Well, to sum it up, she is depressed.He life changes and goes downhill when she meets Holden(played terrificly by Jake Gylenhaal), who also hates his life.So from then on the two begins to sleep with each other. And eventually her husband's(played by John C. Reilly) friend(played by Tim Blake Nelson) finds out and blackmails her with sex. And the film really spirals out of control onto dark comedy material.The good girl is really original and really funny. And a tad bit insane. And very surprising. The performance by Jennifer Aniston is her best. This is also director Miguel Arteta's(Youth in revolt) best film too. The Good girl is a great film. It's really not what you're expecting. It's funny, dramatic, dark. One of the best films of 2002. I loved this movie.The Good girl4/4 "},{"Title":"The Good Girl","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't really know anything about the concept for this independent film, I think it was the cast that was appealing to me. Basically young married Justine Last (Jennifer Aniston) has her her mundane life taking a turn when she begins a passionate and illicit affair with fellow discount store worker Holden Worther (Jake Gyllenhaal). She has said to herself she hates living with husband Phil (John C. Reilly) and his friend Bubba (Tim Blake Nelson) who constantly get high and drunk. Things get complicated when Justine has to deal with the death of co-worker and friend Gwen Jackson (American Pie The Wedding's Deborah Rush), and Holden starts drinking and stealing because of the lack of seeing Justine. Also Bubba finds out about the affair and blackmails her into sex, and Justine gets pregnant, and with the reveal of a low sperm count, Phil has the truth told too. In the end, Holden commits suicide, and Justine accepts living her life with Phil and the new baby girl. Also starring Elf's Zooey Deschanel as Cheryl, Mike White as Corny and Volcano's John Carroll Lynch as Your Store Manager Jack Field. Aniston does surprisingly well in this quite serious role, and the supporting cast, especially Deschanel, all make the characters much more likable than possible the story, which is does seem more dramatic than comedic, but a good film nonetheless. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"When good girls go bad?","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you really dislike Jennifer Aniston and believe that she will never be anything more than Rachel from Friends then try to make yourself watch this movie and see what she is capable of because the gal proves that she sure can act in the lead role here.Aniston plays Justine, a 30 year old woman like many others in the USA. She feels like she needs an occasional escape from her stale marriage (to a stoner, painter and decorator hubby played by John C. Reilly), she rots away in her menial store job and she remembers that she used to dream of so much more. So it's a case of exceptional timing when she connects with Holden (played by Jake Gyllenhaal), a young man working the tills who picked his name from The Catcher In The Rye and writes many stories with the same, tragic themes. A friendship develops into a little more and then the minor mistakes lead to bigger mistakes and before she can get to grasp any remaining sane strand in her life, Justine finds things unravelling far too quickly for her own good.Written by Mike White and directed by Miguel Arteta (who both gave us the twisted love story of Chuck & Buck), this movie manages to mix the familiar with the familiarly edgy to provide an impressive, and rather different, little unhappy in love tale. Holden is an emotive and sensitive young man but is also shown to be quite unstable at times and, obvious to us before it becomes clearer to Justine, rather immature. The stoner hubby is not the nasty, lazy slob that we often see women running away from. He is, in fact, a loving man who unwinds after work with his friend (another good turn from Tim Blake Nelson) most days and suffers most from his own contentment which leads to thoughtlessness and taking his wife for granted.And the characters surrounding the main story strand are all enjoyable and interesting enough despite just hanging on to the very edge. White himself does very well as a security guard trying to gain newcomers to his bible study while the lovely Zooey Deschanel manages to snag all of the best moments as a majorly bored store worker who makes her own fun on the PA system and with any customers unlucky enough to be served by her.This is not a life-changing, major movie but it IS a quality piece performed by people giving some of their best work (Aniston is the revelation but Gyllenhaal also deserves credit alongside everyone else who gets some decent screen time here) and while it may not have any big WOW moments in there it doesn't leave you feeling short-changed either. Because you can always tell quality.See this if you like American Beauty, Shopgirl, My Life Without Me. "},{"Title":"The name of the song on the DVD of The Good girl","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yea, The Good girl was amazing! I think everyone who is a JenniferAnniston fan should watch the movie. I really enjoyed it, though sadlythe story leads to the boy killing himself, it shows a real side of aboy who's madly in love with a women that it leads to him pulling a gun on himself. There's also a truth with the fact that you can't always get what you want. - does anyone know the name of the song on the disc menu of the DVD the Good Girl (i believe the song is only on the DVD). I've checked all the songs on the soundtrack and could not find it. email me at ebeneezer5000@hotmail.com I really want this song, Please email me the name. "},{"Title":"Good Girl could have been Better","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The initial tone of this movie is set with soft music over which Jennifer Anniston's soft voice provides the narration about her empty life. This bland approach is reinforced by blank faces that portray mundane lives. The enjoyable aspect of the movie is brought out as mildly quirky dialogue prompts brief facial expressions that reveal the life still hidden within the characters. These occasional glimpses serve to break the intentional monotony and the overall affect is a sign of good directing. Unfortunately, as the story progresses through the middle of the movie, the camera is pulled back and the subtleties become lost, which is a sign of not so good directing. We're left with flat characters who are just moving around on the screen to the extent that even the love scene between the two main characters is smothered and lifeless, when it should really have been a brash reawakening for both of them. What saves the movie in the end is the excellent cast of supporting actors whose quirky portrayals make up for the bland atmosphere which becomes almost inescapable. The problem is that there are simply not enough interesting sparks to contrast with the underlying monotony, so the movie drags into the finish. Overall, The Good Girl is a good movie with good actors, good writer, and fairly good director, but that's about it. "}{"Title":"Black comedy that made me laugh out loud","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw this film in the TV listings, I made a mental note to give it a wide berth, imagining a standard rom com from the woman with the hair - but it isn't that at all.Jennifer Anniston is so different from the other roles I have seen her in, much more believable than I would have thought possible. This film made me re-judge her as an actress.The film deals with small-town frustration and adolescent angst with a deadpan humour and knowing parody that makes me think that the writer has some first-hand experience of the tortured artist trip.There are so many insightful, almost Dickensian caricatures in this film, that it has a wonderful emotional texture. If you have a dark sense of humour, don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"The Mediocre Film","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm giving The Good Girl a 4 on account of its talented cast, who were completely wasted. One day, Jennifer Aniston's agent will advise her to star in a movie that will allow her to shine. Probably shortly after she changes agents. Aniston is a capable actress and she does her best, but she is let down by a script that makes her character too selfish and shallow to be truly likable.Mike White also wrote Orange County, another film about someone who doesn't fit in, and he made a royal cods-up of that as well. In Orange County he was too conventional and Hollywood. In The Good Girl he tries to be arty and ambiguous but the result is a woolly slice-of-life kitchen sink melodrama with a few cheap laughs. If you want to watch a good film about a misfit in a small town, watch Noi Albinoi instead of The Good Girl. Noi Albinoi has more humour, heart and pathos in its end titles than The Good Girl. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't have much to say about this film it's wonderful. Jennifer Aniston proves that she's one of those rare, non-diva actresses with a beautiful face and interesting features. She's great as the nervous Justine, who slips away of the right path and falls into a deep hole of lies. Jake Gyllenhaal is stunning too he shows that he's a man of many sides after one of his last films Brockeback Mountain, everyone got to know him. He's great as the depressive, mental-ill Holden, he's such lovely together with Jennifer Aniston! Though he's bad in the film, you really find it a pity when he commits suicide at the end. This film is wonderful there are a lot of messages in it, which you've got to find out yourself. It seems to be again one of those non-saying Hollywood drama's, but it's more it's a wonderful story, a film people want to see again. "},{"Title":"enjoyable comedy/drama","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sure, it is a vehicle for Aniston to show us she can really act, but this is still a quite enjoyable comedy/drama. Good performances, well crafted characters and dialog. It is quite slow moving and plodding at times, but it still managed to hold my attention. The best comedy scene must be the one with Tim Blake Nelsons superb character Bubba and his mad, barking dog. I haven't laughed so much in a long time. Hm, I must write some more lines for this comment to be accepted, and I get tired of comments containing plot summaries...and comments that run far too long. Well, the writer, Mike White, appears in the film in a minor, but funny, role as a security guy. Just watch the damn thing. John C. Reilly is also very good. "},{"Title":"The story of her life  - - what does it mean?","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am curious as to what everybody else thought of the story at the end of the movie and what it really means.It was about a girl who was put upon, whose job is like a prison, and whose life has lost all meaning. Other people don't get her, especially her husband. One day she meets a boy who is also put upon and they fall in love. After spending their whole lives never getting got, with one look they get each other completely. In the end the girl and the boy run away together into the wilderness, never to be heard from again. As she's reading this, we see the shot of her and the baby. Is this telling us what happens in the future... Is it implying that she falls in love with her child and they run away? Thanks for any input. "},{"Title":"Nice, but predictable and a little forced.","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed watching this movie for it's sense of dreariness and the decent acting and directing. I especially loved Zooey Deschanel as the apathetic rebel. She nearly stole the show. While I had fun watching the story play out, I found it largely predictable. I knew pretty much much how it was going to end halfway through the film, which kind of ruined it for me. I also felt that some of the decisions made by the main character weren't very realistic. She went from one extreme to another...from seeking redemption to giving someone (whom she'd previously professed great affection for) a batch of potentially fatal blackberries. Did she want salvation and peace or life in prison? This part of the movie I found a little forced..., written just to be entertaining and push the plot along. Overall, despite its flaws, I did enjoy watching this movie, so 7 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Aniston delivers....","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A really good movie with a star becoming a bigger star with a stellar performance and a stellar movie.Jennifer Aniston plays Justine Last a woman working at department store. She looks at her life as dull with her husband Phil Last (John C. Reilly). Then one day a new employee comes to the department store name Holden Worther(Jake Gyllenhaal). The two begin to have sparks for each other and then it becomes something more.Jennifer Aniston's performance in my opinion is Oscar worthy showing that she isn't just a pretty face with a sense of humor. The other actors in this film including Gyllenhall and Reilly give really good performances for there roles.A MUST-SEE MOVIE!!!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"A good indie flick, with good performances","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The good girl is a solid offbeat independent film. The story and direction make this film work, it involves an interesting love triangle which Justine (Aniston) is caught between, after she has an affair with a young co worker (Gyllenhaal) while still being married to her pothead husband (Reily). The film is written very well by co-star Mike White, the strongest point of the film. Arteta's direction is decent, although at times too slow and took a while getting started, but the film is brilliant in its 2nd and 3rd half. The performances also are the stronger point of the film, Aniston is decent in the starring role, better than her usual. Jake Gyllenhaal and John C. reily are the real highlights of the film giving great performances, both were perfect. Tim Blake Nelson, Deborah Rush and Mike White were all decent in supporting roles as well, especially Tim Blake Nelson. 8/10 #160 on my list of all time favorite films "},{"Title":"Anniston puts in the performance of her career in this haunting, disturbing  indie film","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUT Good Girl is an indie movie purist's dream. The movie tells a tale of Justine a bored rather depressed store clerk in Texas, who feels trapped by a loveless marriage, trapped by a boring job and trapped pretty much by everything in general. When she meets a coworker Holden, an artistic, sensitive but problematic boy, they begin an affair. The unfolding of events that follows, is what the movie focuses on as much havoc and ultimately tragedy follow.Good Girl is a character study and a very good one. The movie is bleak, stark, gripping and emotionally powerful. Many have referred to it as a comedy, I did not see one funny moment in the picture. This struck me as pure drama and is both powerful and extremely disturbing. It doesn't sound like it would be from reading what it's about but this movie will not leave you easily.Jennifer Anniston effectively delivers a performance that is, purely outstanding. No matter how good she has been in other movies, one is always aware it is Anniston they are watching. Not here. Oscar worthy in a stunning performance that shows she clearly has the ability to take on edgy roles and maybe it's time to stop playing Rachel.Gylenthal as Holden is haunting as well. These characters-Holden and Justine and Phil-the world is full of them and this movie does what so many are not able to do, in Good Girl characters are created that are so true to life and pulsing with human feelings , that you step into that state of movie watching where the story and characters come alive and flow in such a natural way, you almost forget it's a movie.Good Girl is not perfect, it's pretty depressing overall, and then there's also the fact that the picture's main character Justine is so prone to making wrong decisions that you'll spend half your time wanting to scream no don't do that. I found in most cases that if there was a wrong decision to be made Justine made it. She starts out as a very sympathetic character but frankly by the end of the film not only did I not like her, I disliked her. I think there were a couple of things that brought Good Girl down a bit, number one being the whole scenes with the blueberry's.(or blackberries-can't remember anymore.) as well as Justine trying to have Holden put away.I thought those scenes didn't go with her character. Because I do not think Justine, while she was selfish and self destructive, would have brought Holden the berries. Or tried to Have him institutionalized. Many have commented on that and I agree. It was the only things that did not seem at all plausible and it unfortunately turned Justine from being merely problematic to being seriously disturbed herself and it wiped away any sympathy to be had for her plight. Without that, the feelings become a bit muddled as everyone is so dark there's literally nobody to root for except for perhaps Holden, until he goes and robs the store that is.Good Girl was very strong in a lot of areas, particularly the acting, directing, and cinematography. The inner pain and turmoil these people are feeling is so real, it really illustrates why sometimes indie films are the right choice, many times big mainstream productions just don't seem to Get people-real life people, the way Indies do. Good Girl gets it and the story created is bitter, moving and realistic. It is also touching. But the negatives are the fact that one can't escape the fact that this is a downer of a movie and the loss of some of the movie's power as it goes on. This is really a performance driven movie that is best watched when one is relaxed and isn't coming into it in a bad mood. My vote is either 7 or 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good movie","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie really surprised me in two ways. First, I loved the story. It was a very believable representation of the mundane life that so many people lead. The characters were real and the casting and acting were great. I really felt understanding for Justine even though I didn't always agree with her choices.Secondly, what surprised me is that Jennifer Aniston can act. She didn't rely on her hair or fame from Friends to get her through the movie. I have a new found respect for her and wish she would take on more roles like this.I loved the mix of tragedy, humour and realism that for me made this a great movie to watch. "}{"Title":"It's not a comedy","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though it stars Jennifer Aniston of the thankfully canceled, obnoxious, fake sitcom Friends and it's written by Mike White, who wrote Orange County this is not a comedy movie, a romantic movie or a chick flick. More of a bleak drama with the feel of an independent movie.In some dead-end Texas town a supermarket checkout girl longs for a more exciting life, stares off into space with a disconnected look and moans a lot. In one of her stares she connects with Holden (Jake Gyllenhaal), a lonely, borderline insane young writer. A much needed affair breathes some life into her existence.I wasn't entirely satisfied with the film overall. There wasn't a good explanation for Justine actions and decisions in the film's climax. Who's baby is she carrying? Why did she betray Holden? She's not a good girl. Not by far. So I'm assuming the title is meant to be an ironic one.Anyone expecting Friends or Picture Perfect or Along Came Polly or Object of My Affection or any of the endless incarnations of Rachel Green be warned...it ain't that way.Probably the most mature work Jennifer Aniston has done. But there's still an incomplete feeling to it all. Worth watching with no pre-judgments. "},{"Title":"I've lived in a small town and...","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie's writers did a pretty good job of putting us in a small town, actually the dialogue is pretty clever. This keeps the movie on life support as the story definitely does not. The twists are like something out of the worst soap opera I've ever seen. Character development isn't great which is a shame since the writing and acting are both very decent. The underlying comedy is insulting to the humiliating positions Anniston is put in. I do give congrats to Jennifer for successfully moving away from Friends, and the name she could have been doomed to Racheal. Good luck to David Shwimmer with that same task.  "},{"Title":"Spiritually Draining","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From beginning to end, this movie sucks the life out of you.  I kept on watching all the way until the credits rolled, hoping for a glimmer of spiritual redemption or an upbeat message, but there was none.  It was just a dark movie about sad, lonely, bitter people making bad choices and ruining their lives and the lives of others.  Perhaps this movie was trying a little too hard to be the Anti-Hollywood.  There are a handful of pretty amusing dark-humor moments, but not enough to overcome the perpetual cloud that weighs down the movie.Another huge problem is that Jennifer Anniston is blatantly miscast.  Jennifer Anniston, like Julia Roberts, has attained superstar status in Hollywood.  However, unlike Roberts, Anniston's chic, urban look and image simply are not as flexible and don't work as a small-town, Texas girl.  I guess she took this part trying to break out of her typical role, but I was never able to suspend my disbelief that a girl with Rachael's look and composure (and make-up and hairstyle) would end up with a minimum-wage, Wal-Mart job, with a dopey, deadbeat, druggy, fat, ugly husband and having an affair with a depressed, immature, psychotic, still somewhat ugly coworker.  Even true trailer-trash girls do better than that!  Although her acting is decent enough, princess Anniston constantly stands out among the rest of the wacko, mutant, circus-freak, caricature cast, looking like a stallion trying to blend in among donkeys.  If you believe that life is worth living and that you can improve your lot in life, then you might want to avoid this movie.  If you just want a few cynical laughs and some vague philosophy with no closure, then you might enjoy Good Girl.  "},{"Title":"To quote Get Shorty, I've seen better film on teeth.","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember when this movie first came out, it got a number of good reviews. The main praise seemed to be that Jennifer Aniston could play a character other than Rachel Green (NOTE For those who do not know, Rachel was a character on the popular show Friends). And that I'll give her. I believe the screenwriter went out of his way to make this character the anti-Friend. Only poor, miserable, white trash Justine ends up being even more shallow and selfish than any of the witty, upper-middle class, New Yorker Friends (a feat I didn't think possible). And just because it's a different role doesn't mean it's a good performance.In fact, there were NO good performances in this movie. Not even John C. Reilly, who is one of my favourite actors. Much as I wanted to like him in his role, I found it hard because he had so little to do. He had some amusing moments, but for the most part his role is to sit there and be stoned, so that Jennifer Aniston can continue to feel put upon. I suppose the best performance was that of Zooey Deschanel, who has a couple of lines of mildly funny sarcasm. But still, there's nothing really to make it stand out.The main problem with the movie, though, is the script. I knew I was in for trouble as Ms. Aniston spoke the very first lineAs a girl you see the world as a giant candy store... filled with sweet candy and such.Just what else, may I ask, would a candy store be filled with? Platypi? (NOTE to self Begin next screenplay with, As a girl you see the world as a giant candy store filled with platypi.) Most of the rest of the dialogue at least has the decency to be mediocre. But it's still incredibly overwrought (Mike White, the screenwriter, previously wrote for Dawson's Creek. I am not in the least surprised). Not to mention lines likeIs this your last best chance? Are you gonna take it? Or are you going to your grave with unlived lives in your veins?Which has the (dis)honour of being the most asinine, pretentious, pseudo-philosophical drivel I've ever heard.I thought at first that I hated the characters (incidentally, this is also my main problem with Salinger, the idol of one of the main characters). But as the film went on, I found that I really didn't care about them enough to hate them. I was completely disconnected, and felt nothing but total apathy towards everyone in the film.Now, I must admit, I didn't watch the whole movie. Eventually I got to thinking about the million more satisfying, more productive things I could have been doing, and turned it off to go do them. So it's possible that there's some incredible scene in the last 20 minutes or so that brings it all together and redeems the picture in some way. But life is too short for me to waste a full 93 minutes on garbage like this. "},{"Title":"Don't watch The Good Girl before you've seen Donnie Darko!","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jake Gyllenhaal (Holden/Tom) is the ultimate frustrated, misunderstood, loveable angry young psycho. He portrayed a very similar role as the title character of Donnie Darko (2001). However, while in The Good Girl Mike White (writer) introduces us to a grown up world where overambitious idealism must be punished, Richard Kelly (writer) takes the audience of Donnie Darko to a more fantastic and adolescent place. But because Holden and Donnie have so much in common, it sometimes gets hard to keep them separated.Therefore Watch Donnie Darko before you watch The Good Girl. In this order both movies make sense. The other way around and you will be disillusioned and less inclined to appreciate Gyllenhall's great performance as Donnie.Besides this unfortunate side-effect, The Good Girl is a brilliant movie, where everybody is possessed with something, be it pot, jesus, nutrition, looks or having a secret. The characters make sense. The plot twists like a rattler and the wonderful balance between comedy and tragedy makes it a very appealing film. Also I like to call it the acting debut of 'Girl-Friend' Jennifer Aniston. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Aniston is way underrated","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have enjoyed Jennifer Aniston in other movies, and this confirms those impressions.  Jennifer Aniston is WAY underrated.  She is a physically beautiful young woman, and yet she breaks out of pretty chick roles to prove to us what a great actor she is.  There is nothing contrived about the plot. She is bored with life, meets someone else bored with life, and what can I say....misery loves company.  She realistically portrays a woman caught between passion for a young immature man and devotion to her marriage. Some light scenes hold it together, so it doesn't seem so depressing and hopeless.  I hope to see more of Jennifer in more demanding roles.  The director did a great job of casting. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed The Good Girl. I was a little skeptical about watching it because I'm not a huge fan of Jennifer Aniston but it was like 3AM and there was nothing else to watch so my mom and I decided on this movie. It was so good! It was somewhat slow-moving, but it had a great storyline. All the actors gave great performances. Especially Aniston. She was convincing as the bored store clerk who can't conceive with her pot-smoking painter husband (John C. Reilly). I liked Reilly's character, though. Even though he smoked pot occasionally he was generally a sweetheart and he loved Justine dearly. And I thought it was kinda sad when he hit her for having an affair and he was truly sorry for what he'd done. His actions really broke his heart. Anyways. Jake Gyllenhaal was great as Holden. I thought his character was somewhat disturbed though. He seemed really sweet but once Justine stopped wanting sex and tried to get him to go to the hospital for help he would just snap and get angry. It was like he had multiple personalities. It was real shocking to find out that he killed himself. Over Justine!!  And I thought it was sh*tty of Bubba to blackmail her by making her sleep with him so he wouldn't tell her husband about her infidelities. I couldn't imagine how she must've felt. What I really liked about this movie was that I felt so sympathetic for Justine because of all the wrong she done when she didn't really want to do it and all the tragedies that are happening around her. It seemed like she should've been the one to kill herself instead of Holden! But I liked the ending and even though the baby wasn't her husband's, she still loved him enough to be with him and lie to him. He was nice and really good to her. I liked how all the characters were well written and you got the feel of each one's personality. Well, I liked this film and thanks for reading my review. P.S. Was it really necessary to see Tim Blake Nelson's full frontal nudity?  That was just disturbing. "},{"Title":"Excellent acting and writing","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pleasantly surprised at the performance by Jennifer Anniston. She did a terrific job! The movie itself was intelligently written and although not shot on a big budget - the scenes came across just right. The style reminded me of another movie I like a great deal - Clockwatchers. Good Movie! "},{"Title":"The Good girl is good movie","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The best thing about this was just to see how john c. Reilly pulled off another brilliant perfornamce.  He never failes to deliver the goods.  The unrealistic thing is that there are seldom good looking girls working at this kind of a store.  I went to college in a town called PORTALES that has this exact kind of place.  Trust me, it's so sad to see that in real life.  I don't like Jake G who played Holden.  I did like that BUBBA dude though. "},{"Title":"A Good Small Movie","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This may be a minor movie. It is set in a small town, it is a story about the tragical love between a married woman and a troubled younger man. All chances are for this to be another banal bitter comedy. However, directing and acting make it something else. The small town is just the close scene for really troubled characters, simple but real, fool but touching. Jennifer Alison (who I hear is the star of a TV comedy I take pride in having never seen even one episode) is a fine actress, and Jake Gyllenhaal is even better in the complex role of the troubled young man who things, acts, and writes like a Steinbeck character. This is the proof that the American indie cinema can make real good art movies, and that good movies do not need great money to reach true emotion levels. 8 out of 10 on my personal scale.  "}{"Title":"Thoroughly engaging character study","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsJustine Last (Jennifer Aniston) is a frustrated,bored thirty-something till clerk at her local retail store.Trapped in a go nowhere life,with her crass,weed taking,fat slob of a husband (John C Reilly) and his equally sad thirty-something stoner mate (Tim Blake Nelson) and with only her forty-something till clerk friend Cheryl (Zooey Deschanel) to converse with on a like minded level,she is on the verge of totally giving in on life.Until salvation arrives in the form of new till boy Holden (Jake Gyllenhaal),a younger man with an interest in literiture and who seems to possess more intellect and wisdom on the world than either her husband or his best friend put together.It is not long before she has begun a passionate affair with him,and all the various complications involved start to lead up to the inevitable conclusion.This is another film in which the very concept is enough to entice you to give it a glance.It's explored in a very interesting way,with engaging dialogue and emphatic performances,and the film is at a very compatable running time,which means the story never becomes labourious or over stretched.This does not,however,stop the ending from ruining it.A totally ill conceived and off putting conclusion totally detracts from the compassion and intelligence the script previously had,when a more relevant and compassionate ending would have given the story the pay off it deserved.This is not usually the sort of film I would watch,so for me,if nothing else,it was a pleasantly different expereince.Given the original subject matter and clever writing,you might just find the same thing.In any case,it's one that's worth giving a go.*** "},{"Title":"Absolutely perfect performance by Jennifer Aniston","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well i just saw the movie and i can say that it is a wonderful story! It is a story any woman in her position can relate to! The performance of the actors was one of a kind and truly showed talent in them! If by any chance someone who has contact with Jennifer Aniston and would like to help me meet her since she is in Malta please contact me! i am a great fan of her movies and her works on television !  "},{"Title":"movie good, jennifer great","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  jennifer aniston's acting was superb, movie was good, but jennifer shows great serious acting talent, and shows again that with the right movie parts she will win an oscar one day. Away from comedy, this role givesa slight hint that jennifer aniston can really take on a serious role and show what talent she has. Jennifer should find better movie scripts because she is wasting her tremendous acting talent,and ability on weak stories and scripts. "},{"Title":"A decent drama","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My initial reason for not seeing this movie was based on my intense dislike of Friends and anything (and anyone) involved with it. The buzz created by this film made me curious, however so when I saw it on sale pre-viewed I picked it up.The Good Girl is the story of an average woman, played by Jennifer Aniston, living an average life, with an unfulfilling job and even more unfulfilling marriage.  She meets a younger man, Jake Gyllenhaal, who is pretty much a study in brooding angst.  They start an affair, and the repercussions begin to pile up.I was pleasantly surprised with Aniston's understated performance.  Her portrayal of a woman who is so in a rut that she can't really do much more than stare into space half the time could have been ridiculous, but I found it believable.  This is the first time that I've seen a film with Jake Gyllenhaal in it, but his depressed and borderline psychotic character was actually sympathetic.  The best supporting roles included the always outstanding John C. Reilly as Aniston's husband, and Tim Blake Nelson, probably best known for his role in O Brother Where Art Thou as Reilly's best friend.  This isn't a movie that is going to have you on the edge of your seat.  It isn't going to make you feel great, it doesn't have a lot of action and there really aren't any laugh out loud moments.  What it does have is strong dramatic content and a very believable storyline.  The plot is something that could feasibly happen to anyone, and there are elements that a lot of people can probably relate to.  If you're looking for a cute Jennifer Aniston vehicle, this isn't your movie. If you're looking for excitement, you're not going to get it here. What you will get is a rare occurrence in cinema today - a strong dramatic story with no flash or trick photography.  I thought this was a very good movie and highly recommend it to anyone who is looking for a break from the prolific stylish dramas of today that aren't satisfied with just telling a story. --Shelly    "},{"Title":"Fabulous.","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Normally, I hate Jennifer Aniston. Her role on Friends is obnoxious and annoying, and she just irks me. So, I was reluctant to see this movie. I'm glad I did, though. It was wonderful. Sadly, since it was an independent film, it wasn't given the credit it deserved. Had it been mainstream, it would have most likely been nominated for and won some Academy Awards. It was hard to see Aniston in a role like that, yet I will see her in a different light from now on. She was incredible in this film. "},{"Title":"A journey you wouldn't take willingly if you knew what awaited you after two painfully long hours","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Virtually all of the recent independent films have risen above the abyss of the unknown and into glory through their attention to character over plot due in part to budget constraints.  Renting `The Good Girl' I was certain that I was about to witness another `little indie that could' not unlike 'In The Bedroom' or `Best in Show.'  Instead I was perplexed by the actions of the Jennifer Aniston character Justine Last and though she was the protagonist felt more sorry for her pot-smoking husband Phil (John C. Reilly).Possible SpoilersJustine Last (Jennifer Aniston) was unlikable and all of her actions involve painting herself even further into corners.  She is a cashier at Retail Rodeo where she almost surely makes minimum wage.  She goes home at night and says a few rude words to her husband Phil about his pot addiction before hitting the sheets and doesn't appear to have the intelligence to think her way out her apparent nightmare.  The audience never hears her narrate the dismal outlook she has on life and we never get much of a sense of how she ended up in her unfortunate position.  Her smart solution is to take up with her colleague, a young 20-something named Holden (Jake Gyllenhaal) and before you know it they are involved in a relationship that consists of little more than casual sex.  Justine is one of those individuals who you loathe because she always wants to play the victim.  Instead of thinking up brave and smart solutions to the problem at hand, she goes through all two hours of this tedious and tired film purposefully creating more chaos for herself in an effort to get your attention.  You don't feel sorry for her because you assume that she could have chosen to say, go to college or get a job with some potential for upward mobility, rather than find ways to jump into the sack without her husband Phil finding out.  You feel even less sorrow for Justine when Phil's best friend Bubba essentially forces himself on her to avoid telling Phil the sordid details of her affair with Holden.  Instead of say, kicking him where it hurts, she basically just lays there and takes it. It doesn't really help that on top of watching an individual who loves to play the victim, your strapped with Jennifer Aniston (a relative newbie in film) in the role as opposed to an actress who excels at playing dumbed down trailer trash like Kelly Lynch, Parker Posey, or Juliette Lewis.  What you get with Aniston is a character who is too unintelligent to get out of her situation and who is also too uncharismatic to be liked by the audience in spite of her situation.  Jennifer did try harder than any of the other 'Friends' have in their film attempts (hopefully, you were fortunate enough to miss `Serving Sara' unlike me) but she may want to invest in Brad's acting coaches if she wants to be any kind of force further down the road.When Justine found out that she was pregnant and couldn't figure out which of the three potential fathers was involved, I wanted to scream.  This type of plot has been done to the point where it deserves to just rest in peace.  I was less than thrilled with the ending in which this pathetic shrew of a woman has a baby and all is well in the relationship with hubby Phil which we were told so many times was doomed.  I felt sorry for the child who would most certainly learn that life doesn't really involve working your way out of a mess, but instead stuffing yourself further into a box.So what was there to admire about `The Good Girl?' I did enjoy the trickle of comic relief brought in by Zooey Deschanel (Cheryl) and the movie may have improved had she played Justine Last.  For this to be advertised as a black comedy was ludicrous though they must have been referring to Deschanel's scenes.  Also admirable was the work by the always-dependable John C. Reilly.  But, there's not much to like here.  `The Good Girl' is a bland, unoriginal journey into the hearts of some vacuous characters.  And it's not a journey that you would take willingly if you knew what rewards would await you at the end of the painfully long two hours.5/10              "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, Anniston's great! But the movie overall is a bit too mannered and derivative","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is good, and it ALMOST achieves its goal of being great. I enjoyed the DVD, but was haunted throughout my viewing with the Coen Brothers' vibe. There were many scenes, including those with the voice-overs, where I felt as if I was watching Raising Arizona. It wasn't a copy, necessarily, but I felt that The Good Girl writer and director were definitely going for a specific tone-- the Coen's work. For example, when the Bubba character spoke, the resemblance to the Coens was complete--- Tim Blake Nelson played Bubba here, a dim-witted redneck with ironic whimsy, and he also played the same dim-witted redneck with ironic whimsy in the Coen's O Brother Where Art Thou. Same voice and everything--- it could have been the same guy.The director and writer's efforts towards that Coen Thing created a sense of very visible mannerisms, ALMOST like a school play (not quite, but reminiscent). We see a bit more theatricality than the more natural sense one gets in a truly great movie, that of real life behavior. The movie seemed too mannered, and a tiny bit fake throughout.I was willing to write the thing off as a near-miss during the first three quarters of it, but the last quarter redeemed the movie. Overall, The Good Girl was a decent job, a good movie, and worth renting.The cast was great. Jennifer Anniston was outstanding. As often noted elsewhere, she really displayed exceptional talent, and greater depth and humanity as an actress than her previous portrayals have allowed her to do. She's delightful in the vapid land of the TV sitcom as Rachel on Friends. Not that there's anything wrong with that! But here she shows herself to be capable of so much more in the future. John C. Reilly is also a character actor (albeit with major characters) with great depth, subtlety, and charm. Tim Blake Nelson was also very good--- even though they had him doing his O Brother shtick (admittedly with a twist that appeared later in the movie).Jake Gyllenhaal's character was just too creepy and irritating. The two time I've seen him he's played the same character--- a mentally ill, clingy, whiny, obnoxious kid without any sense of a healthy personality. His characters are NOT people any sane person would desire to spend any time with, nor even be in the vicinity of. Is that Gyllenhaal's great acting? Or is he himself a bit of a flake? One hopes it is acting. As a parellel, note that Keanu Reeve's flaky kid character in Parenthood and Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure was at least funny. Reeves hit maximum creep-out, however, taking that silly shtick to the depths of a truly frightening psycho in My Own Private Idaho. But then Reeves aged, and his characters all grew up to be, well, Keanu Reeves. Not that there's anything wrong with that, but thus far the actor's career has hit a very low ceiling, and has yet to grow any further. Is Gyllenhaal in Reeve's boat? Can't say--- but dang--- as it was, his character was so annoying I wanted to reach in the screen, and shake the Lance character so hard a couple of bones would break, as it were. "},{"Title":"I Did Not Like This Movie","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had wanted to see this months ago in the theater but never got aroundto it. I was really disappointed when I finally did see it last night.First I would like to say that after watching Jennifer Anniston playbeautiful Rachel on Friends for years, and I think she is the BEST partof that show it was really difficult for me to believe her as a southerngal from the wrong side of the tracks. I thought her accent wasterrible.I thought her performance and demeanor was just downrightdepressing. The movie moved at a very slow pace. I thought some of thecharactors were interesting, the bible study guy, and the foul mouthedgirl were funny. The title the Good Girl didn't make any sense to me.It wasn't really ironic as I imagine it was intended. She was neithergood, nor bad, just depressed and in need of a better job, husband orpsychotherapy. I could not figure out if this was a black comedy, or adrama. It had comedic elements to it but was not really funny subjectmatter. It had serious elements to it but never really became dramatic.I think if they had played it up one way or another it would have been amuch more effective story. I think someone like Juliette Lewis who nailsthe poor white trash roles would have been perfect for this role. LastlyI'd like to say that I continued to watch this movie because I reallywanted to know how it ended and without any spoilers I would like to saythat is the most contrived ending to any movie as if to say that nomatter how bad things are THAT will fix eve "},{"Title":"I've seen this too many times before (5/10)","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie spends so much time ripping off a whole slate of recent movies from The Royal Tennenbaums to American Beauty to Chasing Amy that I'm not sure there is anything really original or clever left.It's just another bored person colides with madness and comes away changed for the better movie that I have seen way to much of lately. "},{"Title":"Lone Star loneliness","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being full of prejudices you didn't think Jennifer Aniston was capable of acting in that way, but capable is just the word for it. Frustrated, depressed, disappointed, but still a complete human being in spite of this, she makes a woman portrait you probably will remember.John C Reilly is brilliant as her husband, stupid, stoned but not ignorant of what is really happening to him and his wife. Jack Gyllenhaal, as her love affair, is maybe a little too much out of this world, but just a little.The plot is rather clever and you are not sure of what is going to happen next. Hopefully Aniston will make more movies like this, although she probably won't be payed the amounts she might get for one episode of Friends   "}{"Title":"Jennifer Aniston Rules","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie reminded one of a low budget flick, but it was more of  the substance that really counts. Jennifer's acting is amazing, and its wonderful to see her out of Ratchel Greene's shoes. The movie is humourous at times, but remains serious to the extent of telling how a grown woman from Texas is coping with the wonderful changes she always dreamed of. At the same time it also reminds her of how her life probably was far better off the way it was. "},{"Title":"they should make more movies like this","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  (spoilers)i am getting really sick of the stupid all action no story movies like XXX.....i saw the good girl at this wonderful little independant movie theatre down the street from my house, and i have to say ITS THE BEST MOVIE OF 2002...i love jake gyllenhaal (holden) and jennifer aniston (justine) in this movie.  jake has always been a favorite of mine since october sky, but this movie is definately his best.  i have liked jennifer since rachel on friends, but she is truly wonderful and is on my top list of actresses because of this movie!  it has meaning, it has feeling, i felt for every character, even the scummy ones.  i wish more movies were like this one!each character had a great touch to the movie.  cheryl, the strange girl who got carried away with the makeup.  she was wonderful!  someone i have met thousand of times.  gwen, the woman who gets food poisoned by blackberries,is also someone i have met dozens of times.  phil, justine's husband, was truly sympathetic but you knew exactly why justine cheated, jack, justine's boss...i sure have had bosses like that...and bubba, oh bubba...what a good guy, but slimy.  and justine, the main character, a truly wonderful character.  one of my favorite characters of all times.  i have rarely seen a female character so real!!  JUST A GREAT MOVIE.... a movie i can't wait to get on dvd and watch over and over and see behind the scenes and maybe deleted scenes.  i hope they have some! SEE IT!  ITS GOOD! also, if you think its just another aniston being rachel, you are mistaken. you would have no idea it was the same person....its wonderful, she is wonderful, jake is wonderful, they all are WONDERFUL "},{"Title":"BETTER THAN GOOD","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE GOOD GIRL (2002) *** Jennifer Aniston, Jake Gyllenhaal, John C. Reilly, Tim Blake Nelson, Zooey Deschanel, John Caroll Lynch, Deborah Rush, Mike White, John Doe.  Aniston gives a heartfelt and subtly low-key performance as a thirtysomething married woman watching her life go by while working at a cosmetics counter in a small backwater town who finds herself in an unlikely affair with her younger co-worker (Gyllenhaal, a cottege industry of angst-filled adolescents).  White's screenplay often blends well laughs and unease allowing Aniston's fed-up character to blossom albeit briefly; Deschanel is a stitch as another co-worker using the store's PA to full comic effect. (Dir Miguel Arteta) "},{"Title":"About as funny as 9/11","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This comedy is another huge rip I experienced from a visit to Blockbuster after taking positive quotes' word for it. Why this film is receiving so much credit I'll never know. It's far too boring, disturbing and depressing to be funny. They must have supplied insanely strong substances to the people who liked this film. I honestly can't think another reasonable explanation to why people put with up with this dull depressing drivel, let alone like it.Jennifer Aniston plays a lying whore who is utterly miserable in her marriage and life. She starts a fling with a young guy (Gyllenhaal)where she works who has had an even more gloomy life. Her husband's friend discovers this affair. The friend threatens to tell her husband if he doesn't rape her. Enough, Enough, ENOUGH! That really was enough for me and turned it off just after that. I would've felt suicidal had I continued watching it. I won't believe for a second that no-one felt disturbed during that part. I mean, PLEASE!The acting is OK but rather lifeless and quite far from having spark. Pretty much all of the characters are so shallow and 1D that it wouldn't really be different if the characters were cardboard cutouts. The only remotely entertaining parts were with the woman who dies of food poisoning.All in all, if you're looking for a good Jennifer Aniston comedy film then this is totally not the film. In fact, EVERYONE just avoid this disappointing dull pathetic piece of s***e like the plague. "},{"Title":"Omgosh","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Omgosh OK i love Jake Gyllenhaal and Jenifer it was great i was in love with the movie perfect love story cause neither one of them were perfect Jenifer was depressed and Jake was even more depressed and alone they fall in love totally cute. THE END SUCKKSSSSS it was sad some comedy huh? gosh people he shouldn't have dyed she should have told her husband the truth the first time Jake and her were in love OK. that ending just make Jenifer seem like a lying slut and its as if you don't even care for Jake. its really sad and i had to watch a funny movie after words because it left me sad and depressed its like he try's to make his life miserable and uncomplete without her he loves her thats adorable and unfair. OK poising him? trying to send him to a mental place? when all he wants is to love her that messed up! "},{"Title":"Forget this picture without Jennifer","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a horrible movie. Jennifer was the only saving grace to a trailer trash episode of social garbage. Even Jeffifer's role was third rate. Holden turned out to be a bigger disappointment than Bubba, and Bubba's mental health was never clearly defined. The writing was terrible. It seldom connected with the acting. The discovery by of the credit card charges by Phil was something that perhaps should have been made further on in the picture. Jennifer's remarkable recovery from her facial beating was another disconnect. She seemed to take it in stride ..... why? The retail store never did seem to have any customers, except in the cosmetic department?? "},{"Title":"good acting, terrible storyline","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Aniston came across so well in this film that it's a shame the script totally let her down.For a start she confides that she no longer loves her husband and has often thought about leaving him. Then later in the film she sleeps with his best friend for no other reason than to prevent her husband finding out that she is having an affair with a co worker. Why should she care if he finds out as she was going to leave him anyway? Jake Gyllenhaal's character was utterly clichéd. his post teenage angst almost made me reach for the bucket I am going to kill myself because nobody gets me. lets face it, who, apart from a totally desperate and lonely co shop worker, would want to get him. THough he did show just how difficult it is to act like a truly depressed person. This film has been billed by some as a comedy but the only, even mildly, humorous lines were said by her friend who does the makeovers. If the film had been centred on her character and she had had the affair with Jake Gyllenhaal then maybe the film would have been worth watching. I watched this film through to the bitter, and criminally predictable end and have never been so glad to see the end credits in my life. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Aniston  Was Fantastic","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a a very down to earth film about how young people act at times and make foolish mistakes and think, That the Grass is Always Greener On The Other Side of The FENCE. Jennifer Aniston,(Justine 'Teeny' Last),She's The One, was a married gal for five years and felt trapped in her relationship with the husband and his beer drinking buddies. Justine's husband was a painter by trade and was just a simple home body and loved his wife dearly. Justine works at a local discount store and gets involved with one of the male co-workers and from then on, the story goes crazy and takes poor Justine down paths in life she never dream could happen to anyone. Jennifer Aniston gave a great performance along with the rest of the cast who made this film a Drama and Comedy. "},{"Title":"Cactus, Dust, and Desperation","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit I tuned into this movie because I thought Jennifer Aniston was cute.  What a surprise.  She IS cute, but she really can act.  The story has been covered in other reviews so I won't waste space on it, except to say that it is a thoroughly depressing tale that takes place on the plains of Texas.  Jennifer Aniston is absolutely believable as a depressed young wife searching for something or somebody - anything other than what she has.  All the other characters work.  They are all quirky in their own way, and all of them are well defined.  It is a gritty movie with a tinge of humor that is difficult to get a handle on.  Just as you feel yourself sinking into despair, a twist in the story will make you smile.  The locations are authentic and remind one of Paris, Texas or Sugarland.  I suggest Jennifer Aniston leave the glitter and glow of Hollywood behind and spend more time in the real world.  It really agrees with her.   "},{"Title":"Very Surprised by this gem.","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard a lot about this film a long time before it was released here in the UK, like how it had been a hit at the Sundance film festival. The only cast members who's other work i had either seen or heard of was John C. Reilly and Jennifer Aniston, so I wanted to see what ,made this film a sleeper hit.To be very honest I thought that it would not be very good as I thought Jennifer Aniston (who had to carry the lead) was a boring, repetitive actress who had no range. Boy, I was wrong. This film is an excellant black comedy that has some brilliant young actors and a great script.All of the characters were fantastically brought to life by some breath-taking performances by Jennifer Aniston and Jake Gyllenhaal with a great storyline that leaves you ooo-ing and arrrrrh-ing from some surprising moments.I thoroughly recommend this to anyone looking for originality and thought provoking brilliance. "}{"Title":"jennifer aniston is a great actress.","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  not only is she beautiful,charismatic, and a natural greek,descended goddess, she is great in good girl.and should be able to find her a script,screenplay, that would get her her academy award as best actress and possibly best supporting actress. fox searchlight pictures, did a great job in showing jake gyllenhaal, and jennifer aniston in roles that are so real they are terrifying. and some mediocre lives are terrifying when one feels they just exist and not live. and jennifer portrays this role perfectly. "},{"Title":"Good performance in so-so film","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jennifer Aniston does a pretty good job of carrying this small independent film of a bored wife who takes on an affair with a young employee. We've all seen this story before and there really are no surprises but Aniston ads a fresh face and does a credible job of acting as does the other actors. Nothing groundbreaking but a realistic portrayal of a bored woman. "},{"Title":"Horrid film. DVD cover lies. One of the worst I've seen.","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film sounds good when you see the DVD cover for it and in theory it sounds good too but the actual movie is just awful. Firstly, all the characters seem very simple-minded and very dumb. Immature and stupid characters trying to analyse life profoundly doesn't work for me. Also, it's meant to be romance and it's meant to be love between the main character Justine and co-worker Holden yet I find it hard to believe. It's just total desperation on each character's part as they talk about how they 'get' each other yet they don't seem to know each other. All of these inadequacies along with a main character I could never relate to who makes all the wrong decisions and seems to be there just for the male characters' sexual gratification makes this film cringe-worthy. It would be almost laughable if it wasn't so depressing. Not a feel good movie and despite what the comments on the DVD cover say, it's not 'seriously funny.' I've never seen anything less funny in my life and I think I've seen some horror films that made me smile more after watching. The Good Girl? The Bad Film, more like. "},{"Title":"Comedy?","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was billed as  comedy but there is nothing funny about it.  I love Jennifer Aniston but this was the worst thing she has ever had her name on.  I want my money back.  This movie was predictable and extremely boring. I didn't fast forward because I thought I might miss a good part,there weren't any!!!! "},{"Title":"good for everything...","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Who's your daddy kid ? Because in this movie, your mother made all the mistakes possible for a married woman. She's just a whore, a liar, a person who got you by mistake. Tell her, I'd do her myself too, so you'd have a brother. This movies sucks, don't watch it, it isn't a comedy, it's worst then a drama! "},{"Title":"Oh No! It's one of them 'comedies'!","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm sick of films like this being branded as comedies. I've already sat through 'Punch Drunk Love' and found it as funny as urinating down one's trouser leg at New Years....'Royal Tenanbaums'? More like 'Seeing someone being hit with a car is funnier' 'I Love Huckabees'? More like 'I love watching films where Americans act really neurotic about nothing in particular'.This one has Donnie Darko in it! Break out the tissues, because I'm gonna have to wipe my eyes dry with the mirth! My BROWN EYE that is...there are no funny parts to this film. You've got Jennifer Aniston as the unhappy Missus who goes off with Donnie Darko, and the subsequent shenanigans...none of which strike me as especially funny...Also the ending...redemption? understanding? How about 'I thought this was a romcom that would result in a shag, but didn't?' PISH "},{"Title":"In a low expectation film, The Good Girl portrays an amazing story.","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Going to watch this film , I was a little worried. I hadn't heard great about it, but was very wrong. This film describes the most amazing and horrible situations all in the same round. Miguel Arteta's combination of drama and comedy is perfect.Jennifer Aniston and Jake Gyllenhaal's performance engages you in the first ten minutes. The music fits in at the right time , and puts the scene in a perfect scenario without using words.You can feel the character's emotion, making you laugh one minute and become terribly sad the next. The film is gripping and by far means not cheesy. The trailer makes an uneasy feeling of whether you want to spend your time with this movie, or not.When finishing this movie, I had a kind-of mixed up feeling. This may be a spoiler for you who don't want to know anything, but it kind of leaves you hanging with a few questions. John C. Reilly plays the perfect part.All of these actors were perfectly selected, and they fit together in the film perfectly. They way they move, talk, act, look, and everything else is a mind-blowing thing.It's not very long. Only 93 minutes. (1 hr. and a half). The humor in this production is very dark, but enjoyable.Over all, this movie blew me away, and deserves a better rating than that it has. "},{"Title":"The Good Girl was great","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Good Girl was recently released in Australia and being a huge fan of Jennifer Aniston, I was itching to see it and when I did I realized it was well worth the wait.....The storyline was good, Drama with slightly comedic lines.....But it was Jennifer's performance that really stood out, She was absolutely fantastic. She took on a role that was nothing like the ones she normally takes on and she really shined above the rest. Jennifer well and truly proved to everyone that she is much more then the Rachel Green character we see on TV every Monday night. It is no surprise that she has had film offer's coming out of her ears this past year, Finally people have realised what a truly wonderful actress she is ) Overall a fantastic Movie, Well worth my $13.50 ) "},{"Title":"Skip It","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The characters were not defined well enough for this to be a strictly character driven movie. But that was exactly what it was. I could find no plot. This movie seemed like a director/writer trying to bring others in to his childhood. This movie was not captivating. Skip this one unless you have already seen Happiness and you enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched the movie together with a friend of mine, and although we love Jennifer Aniston, we hated it. It's so boring! We always waited for some funny events, but there was none. It was also very predictable what would happen next, so there wasn't any excitement. The back of the DVD says it was a comedy with a funny ending, but there was nothing to laugh at all. It's almost the most boring movie I've ever seen. The most interesting part of the movie was when Justine's colleague got sick and suddenly died. That was the only thing we could not expect. But it was not really important for the story, she did not give him enough of those berries. "}{"Title":"B-OOOOOORING!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie because the ratings were pretty high on this site- it got a seven. Given the high rating, I was really surprised how bad the movie was. It is slow and depressing and it never picks up. If I were editing this movie, I could cut it down to 30-60 minutes without loosing the story. The story is dumbed down, the viewer is assumed to be a totally stupid, nothing is assumed - it's all spelled out in extra slow motion. Yeah, you get the perspective of how bad and slow and depressing her life is.... I GET IT. Now c'mon, shake up the story, take some chances. Spike Lee the storyline, SOMETHING. It doesn't move, it's predictable, it's a yawn. Jennifer Aniston was ok... not great. She's a speedy actress, and playing the slow character, I could see she had to struggle to supress her personality in the role. The part wasn't exactly suited for her-- I'm not sure why she took it-- maybe it was her last chance and she took it, haw.  "},{"Title":"wow, what a misnomer","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, my wife is a huge Jennifer Aniston fan, she has all of her movies, and watches Friends every night. Well she rented this movie and watched it. Wow, she calls me to the bedroom and tells me that this is the worst movie she has ever seen, she went to the video store and asked for her money back. If you want to watch a better role by Ms. Aniston, then pick up Leprechaun, at least you will get more laughs out of it. That is not even from me, that is from a die hard Jennifer Aniston fan. Please do yourselves a favor, don't rent or watch this film, for fear of, as in Billy Madison, all being stupider for having suffered through this pile of rubbish....Watch She's the One i even liked this film, that is a good film, not the Good Girl,, if i could have voted 0 then my wife would have been even happier.... "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film a couple of years ago, and it is possibly the worst film I have EVER seen! It was so bad that I stuck it out till the very end convinced there must be some saving grace, but there wasn't.. A mind numbing storyline with a predictable plot, this film really wasn't worth the time it took to watch it. I can honestly say, closely rivalling the war of the worlds remake, this is the worst film I have ever seen. A big disappointment as a Jennifer Aniston fan ( The story is very slow moving and not particularly captivating. I am surprised this has such a high IMDb rating. It took a very long time to get in to and was hardly worth the effort once I got there. I watched this with friends who were all of the same opinion. It bored me to the point I couldn't believe I was still watching it. "},{"Title":"This is not cinema. Awful!","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Did they try to marry American beauty  with a Cohen Brother movie? Well, we ended up with a lesson of what not to do in cinema! Boring second lead characters with no impact on the story except vulgar jokes... Aniston can't escape her Friends character and manages to annoy me simply because of the way she walks and looks at other characters... Why would this girl suddenly decide she wants to change her ways and her life? There's no reason such a character with her upbringing would have this kind of dynamics, at least not with the poor exposition we get... Totally dull and pretentious! 1/10 "},{"Title":"Negative due to the story line.","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We watched the movie because of Jennifer Anniston and gave it a 1 because we didn't turn it off. There was no sense of closure or completion, just the sense of life without much meaning. There was some sense of expectation for a better life, but it didn't happen. "},{"Title":"Simple-minded script, even worse acting","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A one-dimensional script and even flatter acting makes this movie readable from 2 hours away.  The occasional chuckles are not nearly enough to overcome the complete lack of emotion and depth, and I found myself wanting to walk out after about 10 minutes. "},{"Title":"One of the worst experiences ever!","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought I was going to see a comedy/drama; this is how this movie is described in IMDB and by the creators. Was I in for a surprise a horrible story, not one funny scene in the whole movie, characters with no real-life credibility, lousy bed-scenes and an unbelievable ending. In my view, a comedy is a movie made for laughter, not a flick which makes you depressed. The critics were raving about the acting performance of Jennifer Aniston, which was not bad, but it wasn't so good either. For the first time I feld mislead by the IMDB, because of the enormous score for such a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Without doubt one of the 5 worst movies ever made","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was the most depressing and slightly sickening movies I've ever had to sit through. The movie started off bad and each and every plot twist just served to make the movie WORSE. As I left the theatre my only thought was Well, thats 2 hours of my life I'll never get back! It had absolutely no redeeming qualities save the fact that Jake Gyllenhaal is pleasant to look at (when his character wasn't being psychotic!) Don't waste your money! (even if you can see it on TV for free, don't waste your TIME!) I seriously hope the movie big shots read this and will start putting out movies where when you leave the theatre you feel BETTER then when you went into the theatre, not WORSE. "}]