[{"Title":"Wise, Witty, and Wonderful!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"36 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After all the hype and comparisons to 'Steel Magnolias', 'Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood', sadly, did not do much box office, which was a shame, as it is a more intimate, realistic vision of women and life-long friendships than the glossier 'Magnolias'.Four girl friends in Louisiana create a secret sisterhood in 1937, swearing eternal devotion to each other, and they remain best friends through all the triumphs and tragedies in their lives. When the daughter of one of them (Sandra Bullock), a successful playright, has an interview with Time magazine in which she condemns her mother's impact on her life, the mother (Ellen Burstyn, who is superb!) goes ballistic, cutting the daughter out of her life, totally. In charges the other members of the Sisterhood, kidnapping Bullock, and attempting to make things right!The film then jumps back and forth in time, with Ashley Judd playing the younger Burstyn. She has a lot of happy adventures with her Ya-Ya sisters, but also has to deal with racism, a jealous religious zealot of a mother, an overly loving father (David Rasche, breaking free of his usual comic roles), a true love who dies in WWII, and a family with a guy she 'settles' for (played, in present day, by the wonderful James Garner). There is also a dark secret that is the core of the mother/daughter alienation, which must be dealt with in order for the rift between Bullock and Burstyn to heal (No, I will NOT give it away!) If you do the math about the years covered, you realize the present-day story SHOULD be taking place in the seventies, at the latest, but this doesn't hurt the overall effectiveness of the picture. As the other present-day sisters, Fionnula Flanagan, Shirley Knight, and (especially) Maggie Smith are WONDERFUL, as is Angus MacFadyen, as Bullock's sympathetic and likable fiance.While this is unabashedly a 'chick flick', something I really liked was that they DIDN'T fall back on that old chestnut of somebody dying to serve as a convenient catalyst for change and the healing process. And the dialog is full of wickedly hilarious one-liners about men, alcohol, friendship, and growing old! Don't miss this gem!  "},{"Title":"Blew me away!","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I sat down on a Saturday night at 930 to watch this movie.  I watched it through twice before I went to bed that night, twice again on Sunday, and now it's Monday night and I've just watched it all the way through again. And I NEVER do that!I came to this movie with little or no expectations.  I had not read the book (but I will!), although I knew it had been a bestseller for awhile, and was on Oprah's list.  I hadn't even paid any attention to who was in it, so was thrilled to see one of my very favorite actresses, Ellen Burstyn.I can't really tell you what made this movie speak to me the way it did. I had a very happy childhood, and so couldn't relate on that level at all. The cast was phenomenal, particularly Sandy Bullock as Siddalee.All I can say is what someone before me already said - this is one you should judge for yourself, not by what others say. "},{"Title":"Na-Na?","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I liked this movie. I really did. Someone very close to me has a mother very much like this. It's reality folks, not everyone has a sensible loving mother that grasps the role of motherhood like a duck to water. Some people remain stuck in a selfish state where they blame everyone/thing else for all their unhappiness and the misdirection of their lives. I'm glad there's a movie that brought that subject to light. One user said the movie is celebrating an alcoholic, but that's untrue. You're watching a woman go further and further into a downward spiral of self-pitying despair and hatred for the events of her life. I also didn't find Vivi's mother to be evil, but she seemed to have been desperately trying to claim her role as a respectable wife. When your husband treats horses better than you, you get a little miffed. He dismissed her as his partner in life for a child she gave him, so the woman aimed her frustrations at her child, instead of her husband. At that time, what could she have really done to the husband? He would've beaten her most likely. I appreciated the fact that Vivi was flawed. Just humanly flawed and admitted it. It sucks that people have parents like this, but Sidda learned to deal with it in her own way. I'm glad it wasn't a typical reaction, like drugs or promiscuity. She just accepted her mother for what she is flawed and screwed up. Motherhood doesn't make you unselfish and well-versed in letting go of your troubles. That's something you learn over time, and the movie showed that. It might take 40-odd years as it did them, or someone could get it the moment the child is born. What I got from the film is that your parents had dreams and nightmares before you came into the picture, and it takes a lot out of them to come to terms with being responsible for a life that they may or may not be ready for. I also really loved the part where Sidda begins to question her ability to be a good mother and wife. I think that resonated well. I certainly would start to wonder. Parents can screw up their kids easily I tell ya. It's not a responsibility to enter into lightly. I'm sure there were flaws like the accents of Louisiana and technical stuff, but altogether, the movie really reaches many levels. "},{"Title":"Not so divine to me ...","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really, really wanted to like this film, and before you read the rest of this I will say I can't explain why I don't like it without spoilers, so you've been warned.This film is being sold as a feel good, female bonding, mother-daughter, chick flick.  While it's all those things, it's also about a mother, Vivi (Ellen Burstyn in the present, Ashley Judd in the past) who drank too much and beat her kids.  Yes, she lost her true love in the war.  Yes, she had a nervous breakdown.  And yes, she really, really feels bad about beating her kids.  But when daughter Sidda Lee (Sandra Bullock) goes public about her abusive childhood, Vivi doesn't apologize, she pitches a fit and has another Bloody Mary.Don't get me wrong.  There were some good times in Sidda Lee's childhood, and her father reminds her that she should remember those instead. Because it is the adult child's responsibility to understand and forgive the abusive parent.  Yes, that strange sound you hear is my blood boiling.So with the help of the (mostly) drunk Ya-Ya Sisters, kidnapped Sidda Lee comes to understand that her mother was heart broken and sometimes the kids all got sick at the same time and that's why she drank and beat the crap out of them.  So Sidda forgives Vivi, even though Vivi still never apologized. Then the band plays and everyone is happy.Were there times when I laughed?  You bet.  There are some great lines. But the movie is slow, jumps around in time far more than necessary, and handles serious issues like alcoholism and child abuse far too lightly.  I have no idea why this film was championed by Bette Midler, Bonnie Bruckheimer, Callie Khouri and Sandra Bullock.  Surely they could have found a better women's story to film. "},{"Title":"A crying shame","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"38 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a shame!!!  This is the worst excuse for an adaptation of a novel I have ever seen.  Nothing is explained about Siddalee, Shep, Vivi, the Ya-Yas, the younger siblings, Buggy, etc.  No one will understand fully the anguish that the children went through as children or the anguish that Vivi went through in her own childhood.  Shortcuts were taken left and right in this film, much to the detriment of the storyline.  For instance, Shep is not a living saint, Vivi did not simply beat her children because of dexamyl, Teensy's mother is barely mentioned, Vivi's stay at the boarding school was left out, and where is Aunt Jezie, grownup Lulu, Little Shep, and Baylor?  I realize that it was a two hour film, but an adaptation should never have been attempted if it wasn't going to be done faithfully.  Everything in this film was explained away too easily.  Sidda needed much more than a sob story about her mother's loss and use of dexamyl to explain her behavior.  Too easy, too simple, too cheesy.  No one could possibly come away with a clear understanding and resolution of the plot.  My recommendation  SKIP IT and read the fabulous books this was supposedly based on  Little Altars Everywhere and The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya sisterhood.     "},{"Title":"An unforgettable celebration of friendship","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm not O.K. and you're not O.K. and that's O.K. That's one of the messages of this funny, profound, honest film. The flawed humanity of its characters stands alongside the transcendent miracle of friendship.Young Siddalee Walker (played with passion and humor by Sandra Bullock) has made it as a playwright in New York. She has been successful in starting an entirely new life, in the process gaining distance from her alcoholic, mercurial mother back in Louisiana. She has escaped -- or has she? Something makes her send a postcard home by giving an interview to Time Magazine in which she attributes her creativity to the mistreatment she suffered as a child. That serves as a call to action for her mother's lifelong friends (Fionnula Flanagan, Shirley Knight, and the incomparable Maggie Smith, wheeling an oxygen tank). It seems likely at this point that Siddalee's mother Vivi (Ellen Burstyn) will go to her grave without ever speaking to her beloved daughter again. Drastic action is called for, and these three ladies are no frail blossoms.They kidnap Siddalee, bring her to a backwoods cottage in Louisiana, and set about the task of helping both mother and daughter to remember that growth comes from acknowledging connections, not severing them. They are aided in this task by an ornate scrapbook that the four of them kept of their youthful adventures as the Ya-Ya Sisterhood.The members of this sisterhood do not turn a blind eye to each other's shortcomings. In one of the film's many poignant moments, Siddalee does a cruel impersonation of her mother. As the audience readies itself for Vivi's friends to rush to her defense, one of them (Maggie Smith, of course) says dryly, She's got her pegged all right. These women, who are about as far from perfect as the cottage in Louisiana is from New York, dare to love each other with eyes wide open.Flanagan, Knight, and Smith are delightful as Vivi's three friends, and James Garner contributes a fine performance as the quiet, forbearing husband and father. Most memorable of all is the wounded beauty of Ellen Burstyn as the tempestuous Vivi, who has grown up with two kinds of savagery --- the naked brutality of her father and the merciless piety of her mother. Through the whole film shines the keen emotional intelligence of director Callie Khouri.This film is a masterpiece that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Parts were OK, but overall awful","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really hoped to like this movie. Parts were funny, but large sections of it were just awful. I don't see how the daughter was supposed to forgive and forget. Her mother was alcoholic and abusive. Just because prescription drugs pushed her over the edge doesn't really make her a great person otherwise. The scenes of her craziness, losing it with the kids and beating them with a belt just made me sick. The fond memories her daughter has of her seem fun because they were wild and offbeat, and this was sad, as they felt like the edge of craziness/drunkenness too.I just can't buy the 'all is forgiven' ending, it seemed way too easy for all that happened. Great if they can put it behind them, but it seemed ridiculous. And too bad those great ya-ya sisters didn't try to be as good of friends to the poor children at any point in their life as they did to the mother. She was hardly the only one suffering.I know a lot of people liked this, but it was too much pain for me, the lighter moments really aren't enough to carry this. "},{"Title":"Excellent is an understatement","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Excellent is an understatement. The movie, which I saw yesterday, was exactly like the book, which I read a few months ago. The actors captured the characters perfectly. The story was moving, powerful and heart-warming. It makes you feel sad, then happy, then sad and then happy again. Maggie Smith was hilarious as Caro and Ellen Burstyn was outstanding as Vivi Dahlin'. Ashley Judd played the part of young Vivi brilliantly. It's probably her finest performance yet. All in all, the movie was wonderfully made and didn't deviate from the book, like so many films do. You HAVE to see this film. "},{"Title":"A chick flick for all seasons","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A chick flick for chicks of all ages, The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood tells of four Louisiana ladies who establish their secret Ya-Ya sisterhood, bound by blood and oath and honor, at a young age and who remain friends over the years providing each other with friendship and support. The film's thin storyline is about one such sister (Burstyn/Judd) who has issues with her adult daughter (Bullock) and her sister Ya-Ya's who come to her rescue much to her dismay. What ensues is a warmly funny kind of jambalaya which makes up for its gaping plotholes with personality, charm, and rambunciousness as it stumbles through it story finally arriving gasping and wheezing at its feel good conclusion. Gagging material for grinches, most will find the Ya-Yas are just too damned much fun not to like on some level.   (B) "},{"Title":"A Profoundly Serious Movie","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Despite its silly title, which just refers to a childhood game, this is a profoundly serious movie about reconciliation.It spans three generations of women, tormented by religion and mental breakdown. It explores three generations of mother-daughter relationships.This would be a great movie for any child of an abusive mother.Siddalee, the Sandra Bullock character, gradually comes to understand her grandmother and mother and is thus gradually able to forgive them.It is a frustrating movie. I found myself demanding the plot bound along with series of Hollywood contrivances, but it meanders and backtracks, tantalising then not delivering, much like real life.The unbearably aching mood of reconciliation and nostalgia gradually develops, partly due to the long suffering, ever-loving Shep Walker (James Garner in a low-profile role quite unlike the ones he normally plays), and Connor (Angus Macfadyen), Siddalee's ever-patient Irish boyfriend.Maggie Smith is in it, reason enough to watch it.The movie recreates the south in lush Technicolor over three generations, a visual feast.If you are embarrassed to cry in public, make sure to watch this alone. "}{"Title":"If only they had tried harder.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sometimes, one can only be wounded deeply by family, and only at home; and sometimes the only place to be healed is by family where the wounding happened.That's the message I gather they tried to tell us in `Devine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood,' the problem is, they didn't do a very good job. Even with the incredible talent arrayed for the film, there just wasn't enough emotion, oomph, and `family' to make this all worthwhile.Clearly, a dysfunctional family trying to come to grips with a less than stellar past is an admirable topic, but `Sisterhood' didn't deliver. I went in wanting to like this movie. I left feeling dismayed that they couldn't pull it off. I can only hope the book is much better, because if it isn't, then filming it would have been an incredible waste of time.If only they had tried harder. Or maybe felt more. Or maybe even managed to make me care about who they are, what they have been through, and how they came out of it.The problem is, they didn't seem to try, there was too much lack of empathy and emotion, and they utterly failed to make be care about them as people. But even with that, I can see that they truly wanted to make something wonderful. I wish I had gotten to see that instead.I give it a `3' because a `4' is just out of reach, sadly; and a mediocre `5' would have been a marked improvement.  "},{"Title":"Ho hum","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS Poorly handled flashbacks, with dubious casting of different aged versions of same character.  Comedy?  Huh?!  Nothing funny about child abuse - even if there is some sympathy for the mother.  Nothing very funny about madness either - or spoilt southern women, or a husband who has remained with his wife despite having to sleep in a separate room for the last 30 years. A positive riot.  As others have noted, you keep expecting some kind of revelation at the end.  But it never materialises, and you are left feeling somewhat short changed.  (For a similar but much worse experience see 'The Ninth Gate').  I thought at the least that the boy lost in the war would turn up at some point to explain the mother's mental episode.There is no explanation for the mumbojumbo behind the Ya-Ya of the title, and certainly no reasonable explanation why four child hood friends should after 50 years remain livng in close enough proximity to be able to go driving every where together.  And are we also expected to believe that a boyfriend of some 7 years has yet to meet the parents?  Yeah, right.Maggie Smith can act - but sadly a Southern accent is for her 'a talent too far'.  The Oxygen mask I can only assume was a device designed to explain or hide her lapses into English.In general - a disappointment.      "},{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" it's interesting to me that some of the negative reviews people have written for this movie include comments such as i was waiting for some kind of revelation...but it never came... From someone who lives in a family affected by mental illness I can only say that there is no revelation. Getting through it is a process and each step includes a struggle, there are good moments and there are bad...but unlike Hollywood films it can't be wrapped up neatly or fixed after some melodramatic scene. and it's hard to talk about. i think this film captured all these aspects quite accurately. it was different from things we see normally and kudos to Ashley Judd for pulling it off. in short, i enjoyed this film...a lot. and i know many guys who did as well, thereby slightly debunking the chick flick label. "},{"Title":"Ya-Ya?","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film goes into the category of Chick-Flick but there are some Chick-Flicks that are very well made. Unfortunately, this is not one of those. Story starts out with 4 girls in the woods about 50 years ago who invent a club just for them called..Oh, you know. Well, forward ahead to modern day and we see Sidda Walker (Sandra Bullock) who is a successful playwright and she gives an interview to Time magazine and says her childhood was difficult. The article comes out and Sidda's mother Vivi (Ellen Burstyn) reads it and is furious and writes her out of her will and tears up her photo's and acts very melodramatic. The rest of the Ya-Ya's are Teensy (Fionnula Flanagan), Necie (Shirley Knight) and Caro (Maggie Smith) and they travel to where Sidda lives and spike her drink and somehow get her back to Louisiana but don't tell Vivi that they have her. Well, she finds out from Sidda's fiance' Conner (Angus Macfadyen) that they have her but she is not allowed to see her. While at their place Sidda looks at their old scrapbook and then the film uses flashbacks to view several events including why Vivi was a difficult mother and her bout with depression and being hooked on pills. This film is the directorial debut of writer Callie Khouri who wrote the screenplay for Thelma and Louise and she displays tremendous patience in her storytelling and the film goes on way to long. The characters all play Southern Belles and there are times during the film that it is difficult to understand exactly what they are saying. Smith is an English actress and her Southern accent is just not believable. As I watched this film I kept waiting for the big scene that is suppose to tell us about Vivi but it never really comes because we already know in advance about her troubles and yet the film is still a solid two hours long. James Garner plays Shep and the actor that plays him as a young man appears to be a good foot taller then he is. I didn't hate this film because with a great cast like this it would be impossible. The most effective scenes in the film come from Ashley Judd who is suppose to be a young Vivi and although I'm not convinced of how good of an actress she is, she is good in this film. This film could have benefited from more editing and more realistic dialogue. Great cast tries hard but except from a few scattered moments this is a big disappointment. Ya-Ya!  "},{"Title":"Bad Combination Of Drama And Comedy","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood is a comedy drama or dramedy movie that stars Sandra Bullock and Ashley Judd together with Ellen Burstyn,Fionnula Flanagan,James Garner,Maggie Smith and Shirley Knight.Screenwriter Callie Khouri makes her directorial debut with this adaptation of a pair of popular novels by author Rebecca Wells namelythe novel with the same title and its prequel collection of short stories entitled,Little Altars Everywhere.Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood starts when Sidda Lee Walker,a New York playwright,opens a can of emotional worms with her estranged, alcoholic mother, Vivi.She discusses her painful childhood and particularly Vivi's less-than-enviable mothering skills in a Time magazine article. The eccentric Louisiana drama queen Vivi has already been barred from her daughter's wedding to her fiancé, Connor so the article sends her into a rage. Coming to the rescue of the relationship are Necie,Caro, and Teensy, a trio of bickering women, who, along with Vivi, formed a secret society of feminist empowerment and friendship 60 years earlier that they dubbed the Ya-Ya Sisterhood. The Ya-Yas kidnap Sidda and bring her home to Louisiana, where they reveal to Sidda via a carefully maintained scrapbook her mother's painful past,which makes her get to know more about her mother which make an effect to the rapprochement between mother and daughter.Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood explores many tragedies in life such as alcoholism,parental conflict,intrusion to another person's life or privacy,and child abuse but it was handled in comical manner.I don't think that these serious and tragic issues does not need to be addressed in laughable manner.Instead of handling it through great character development and brilliant plot especially in female relationship,the film becomes an exercise of comedy with a few dramatic scenes thrown in.The cast are too talented but put into waste in it as the characters don't get our sympathy.Rather,we get annoyed with the silly actions they take in life.In summary,the film was a bad combination of drama and comedy. "},{"Title":"What a Tremendous Disappointment","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I gotta say, when I first read the reviews of this movie never having seen it before, I thought that the reviewers were being typically chauvinistic patriarchal drones and giving it such low scores because it was a movie about women, and they did not appreciate movies about women. I thought they simply could not understand the beauty of such a multi-generational film. I thought they were just being jerks.I have since learned that they were right.This movie IS awful. It did not have to be awful--in fact, it ought to have been good. Many of the actresses in this film are excellent and are stars in their own right; the supporting cast of men looked solid.The acting was good. That was the only redeemable bit of the movie.The fact that Sandra Bullock can be watchable even in the dregs like this movie speaks more to her talent than the movie's success.If there is one theme however that films about women insist upon time and time again, however, it is that looks can be deceiving.The direction of this film was terrible. The editing was worse.The core story of this film--abusive mother becomes alcoholic in her old age after having raised a bipolar, far-too-straitlaced daughter.They yell, they scream, they have conflicts and they resolve them.Now, this movie could have been made in a new and exciting way. It could have been great. It could have really called our mothers to task for using alcohol as a coping mechanism for all and sundry, and it could have called ourselves to task for using work and lack of a social life as a way to avoid the past. It could have opened our eyes to the ways we fall into whatever relationship opportunities present themselves rather than make truly genuine and thus difficult decisions.It could have; it did not.The movie spent half its time in flashbacks, which has never particularly been a favorite story-telling mechanism of mine. It spent its entire middle engaged in fairly useless fighting between the main character's mother and fiancée and father, which wasted time. The flashbacks' significance or impact on Siddalee were rarely explained, leaving us to guess as to Why We Should Care. For those of us who did not grow up in the South, the sudden entrance into a way of life we had no familiarity with whatsoever was jolting, to say the least. There was little-to-no context given to any of the revelations meant to explain it all. There was too much the rest of the time.Meanwhile, no one stopped drinking, Siddalee never got the opportunity to actually confront her mother regarding her mother's abuses, and Siddalee's father never left the woman who tortured him for so long.Meaning, no one ever got the opportunity to be human--instead they became caricatures in a story 'bout how Forgiveness Heals All.This is a story about crazy white people doing crazy white people things and never acknowledging or even seeming to realize that the things they were doing were completely 100% insane and pointless.Nice job, y'all, and I DO mean that sarcastically. Nice job. "},{"Title":"yawn yawn sisterhood","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I did everything I could not to walk out of this film.  But, I couldn't hang in there and got a refund on my ticket, along with other disasisfied watchers.  I don't understand how an amazing cast of proven actresses can create such a boring film. "},{"Title":"I'm surprised at the poor ratings this film has received","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My wife loves this film. This is a woman whose favorite films include any woman whose last name is Hepburn. Yes, she is a romanticist from the past &#151; understandable since she has a Ph.D. in medieval history.Because she's played the film enough times, I've had the opportunity to watch it both in its entirety and in bits and pieces. And there's really a lot to it that most viewers are missing.Why?I think it's because it grows on you. The parts are all incredibly well played &#151; certainly expected of mature actors like Maggie Smith, Fionnula Flanagan and Ellen Burstyn. But here even Sandra Bullock is enticing not just in her looks but in her expression of her character.Some films you like right out of the gate. We all know which ones they are. Others have to grow on you. And unfortunately too many films are never given a second chance. YA-YA SISTERHOOD is one.Watching it a second or third time is like sitting around a campfire and telling the same story over for the umpteenth time. We've all heard it before, but we still want to hear it again.For those who have dissed this film, give it another chance. Perhaps when you're older. Perhaps when you're in a romantic mood. Perhaps when you're tired of stupid comedies, disgusting horror films and over-the-top action thrillers. Then I'm sure you'll see it in a different light and think, Well maybe YA-YA SISTERHOOD is indeed a little hidden gem. "},{"Title":"A Kind Of New-Age Feel-Bad/Feel-Good Movie","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this a very difficult movie to get involved with. For the most part it's a very unpleasant story of the dysfunctional (almost to the point of hateful) relationship between Sidda (Sandra Bullock) and her mother Vivien (Ellen Burstyn.) We discover that many years ago Vivien and her three closest friends had formed a secret girls' club called the Ya Ya Sisterhood (sort of a whimsical pagan coven) and that the Sisterhood continues to operate into adulthood. So the other three step in and in a comic opera style of operation (except that there was nothing particularly funny about it) they drug Sidda and essentially kidnap her, taking her back home for an eventual reconciliation with her mother. From then on the story is told largely in a series of flashbacks from both Sidda and Vivien, in which both realize that there are happy memories as well as bad ones.To be absolutely honest I found this rather boring stuff. Bullock and Burstyn put on OK performances, and the supporting cast helps this out, as does a nice soundtrack. Angus MacFadyen I thought was well cast as Sidda's gentle and insightful fiance. But the movie itself just never grabbed me.4/10 "},{"Title":"In a league of it's own, and not a good one.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is not in the same league as Callie Khouri's Thelma and Louise, Fried Green Tomatoes or Steel Magnolias.  It is really slow, especially after the first hour, and even with some great actresses, I found myself looking at my watch, just waiting or it to come to a very predictable climax. And then it had an anti-climax, and then another anti-climax.  Even though i did not read the book, it had to be far better than this film. Sorry, i wanted to like it, but just couldn't.  It will probably make some money with marketing targeted to devotees of the book, but they too might be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Worst movie in history!","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No wonder this movie flopped at the box office. It is without a doubt the worst movie I've ever seen in my life! I just wanted to quit watching so many times throughout the movie but had to watch it till the end because it was work related. God, I wanted to gouge my eyes out.Do they really believe women like this kind of so-called 'chick flick?' I'm a woman and I absolutely, totally, completely HATED it! What a waste of time! It was the most painful two hours of my life EVER! Two hours that I'd never get back! Do yourself a favor and DO NOT watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Disgusting, Reaganesque moral","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is in the same vein as Khouris' last, Grace under pressure, where she, literally, said Stand by your man. Even if he porks your best friend.Here, she says forgive Mama everything, her alcoholism, her mistreating of her own family, her lovelessness during Siddalee's childhood. Because of that dark secret (pathetic, really), that only lasted a few months.But we saw it coming, already at the end of Thelma & Louise, didn't we? Girls/women should either put up, shut up - or die!Disgusting movie. "},{"Title":"neither good nor bad","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a mystery to me how anyone can assume that a film like this is interesting for an audience outside the US. I once went to a local amateur theatre performance and the audience went wild because they knew the actors and they were laughing the moment they entered the stage. I was amazed. And this film was also such an experience but unfortunately the audience wasn't right and so it was at times difficult to keep up at least a minimum of interest. The actors represent cranky characters that might be hilarious for Americans but they're just barely funny here. The dialogues are predictable and not really funny either. And this also one of those films that entices people into the cinema with a trailer that creates a totally false impression of the film. This film is more sad than funny. What you see in the trailer lasts a few minutes at the most and it's not really related to the main action. The actors may give their best, but it's just not possible to be good in a film like this. At least it's better than Steel Magnolias, which is a film that I wouldn't even give 1 point. Everything in that film seems to be fake. Here I at least get the impression that there are good intentions although they don't really amount to much. "},{"Title":"southern movie cast by a yankee","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  waited forever for this movie. did the casting director or producer ever spend time in La. No histrionics, no humor, just fumbling around. ellen, not tough enough, teensy not the little hellion I imagined. Father, not the spoiled citadel brat I wanted him to be. What happened.  "},{"Title":"very disappointing","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I gave this movie 3 stars because I appreciate the portrayal of sassy old ladies who drink and curse and smoke; if not for that I would have given it a 1 or 2.I read the book last summer while I was in Louisiana, adored it, and read the two others in the series. I know that movies generally don't do justice to the books they're based on. I heard unenthusiastic reviews. I still rented this movie with the expectation--even determination--to enjoy it. Then I discovered Sandra Bullock was in it. Puke. Her southern accent is a travesty. I want to rant on a bit about how disgusting it is that her performance was allowed to taint the Ya-ya name but it's probably not her fault. Her persona is just completely wrong for this story. Whoever cast her should be taken behind the barn and shot. Ditto for the director.Like I said, I really, really wanted to like this movie in spite of potential supposed mediocrities... But it really, undeniably sucked.I BEG anyone who has seen or is considering seeing this movie to just go out and read the book instead. If you judge the thing based on the cinematic adaptation it will appear to be pure drivel, and you will have missed quite a bit of important and beautiful stuff from the writing. "},{"Title":"Boring, boring, boring","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read the book and found that the flashbacks were excellent, but the chapters supposedly taking place in the present, concerning 40-year-old Siddalee and her boyfriend Connor, were very boring. Unfortunately, the movie spent way too much time on these scenes. They completely eliminated one of the best segments, where Vivi is sent to an ultra-harsh catholic boarding school as a teen. That was a bad omission, since it was a very intense and very interesting part of the book. My husband, who loved the book so much he saved the last 50 pages for a time when nobody would be around, fell asleep 15 minutes before the movie was over. "},{"Title":"Disjointed movie","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Spoiler ahead. I got lost many times in this movie and I have to say that perhaps the book was difficult to adapt to film. It seemed to lack any real depth in telling a believable story, it was too fragmented. Also the issues of abuse and the reasons behind the abuse were clouded in mystery and then when they finally are shown I feel they are not treated with the seriousness that they deserve. Also what is such a good cast doing in this movie. It doesn't compare with Fried Green Tomatoes which is one of my favourite movies. Also Angus Macfadyen's Irish accent is just the worst Irish accent since Tom Cruise in Far and Away which was dreadful. Not one of Sandra Bullocks best movies either. All in all rather disappointing "},{"Title":"Over Dramatic Fluff","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A quite bland little chick flick that should appeal to women aged 25 - 50. It's your typical Sandra Bullock movie, complete with love lorned main character, attractive male who would do anything for her, and conflicting elders.  Add on corny dialog, cliched characters, over acting, thick accents, and an overdone soundtrack and you have what this movie basically is.  A vanilla chick flick.  Stick with the book. "},{"Title":"Only 1 good reason to see this movie","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you're a guy, the only reason to see this film is to continue getting laid. I can't imagine what women saw in it, but I've about given up on figuring that out.The male reaction to the storyline in this film would be,Hell, my family is more trouble than they're worth. Screw em Women, on the other hand, insist on going back and reliving past mistakes and hoping that things will turn out differently this time. That's pretty much what this film is about, Siddalee knows that her mother is a bitch but desperately wants her to be something else, so she tries to change the past and the woman who abused her. This is the kind of movie where you can feel the testosterone being sucked out of your body and the rational and logical thought process being sucked from your brain.A complete waste of time, no reason for any straight male to see this turkey ever, unless you have to in order to keep the woman in your life putting out. 3 out of 10, one of the worse movies I've ever seen, and I've seen some real dogs.James Garner was apparently seduced by the Dark Side for the making of this film. It may have gone deeper still, after all, he made The Notebook after this one.Support the Untied Dyslexic Church of Dog!! "},{"Title":"Utterly Disappointing","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After first reading The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood I was sure this was going to be a terrific movie. Sad to say I was totally WRONG! I got about fifteen minutes into the flick then turned it off and read the book again. The casting was great but this adaptation of a very moving book was way off. "}{"Title":"What makes a Chick Flick a Chick Flick","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1) a grab-ya-by-the-heart premise (see The Way We Were)2) a script free of insulting stereotypes (see Out of Africa)and, most importantly...3) characters you sympathize with, even when you want to throttle them (see Terms of Endearment)Instead, what we get is a movie about a vain, self-absorbed windbag and her Kentucky-fried, bourbon-drenched pals whose loyalty to the aforementioned, inexplicably, know no bounds. Vivi and her fellow Ya-Yas didn't earn my laughs, empathy or admiration (essential for a Chick Flick). I just wanted to bitch-slap the whole lot of 'em! The lip service it pays to race relations and its failure to explore Vivi's relationships with her other children (and the Ya-Yas' relationships with their spouses/children) was galling enough. But what really sent me over the edge was the big secret that was supposed to explain Vivi to Sidalee. Not to give it away, but it doesn't explain A THING -- at least, not to those of us who were stupid enough not to check our brains at the door. Wouldn't have Sidalee known that already? Shep's excuse - that Vivi made him promise not to tell - not only does not fly, it's sloppy, insult-our-intelligence writing.There was a movie about parent/child relationships screaming to get out here. But like Ice Age, it wimps out when it's time to put up or shut up. And THIS from the writer of Thelma & Louise. How sad. "},{"Title":"not in the same league as other films of this genre","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  it surely isn't close to fried green tomatoes or steel magnolias.  about one hour into the film the pace drops off to slooowww.  all women will probably say how this really touches their lives, but the truth is, this is not a very good film.  i am sure that marketing will help it make money, but is that what movies are all about? "},{"Title":"A sweet tale of female friendships","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is really a celebration of female relationships between; mothers and daughters, between girl friends and between wife and husband. There are numerous flash backs, but the film flows at a good pace that it is not a distraction at all. The storyline is very light hearted to begin with, but gets darker. Ashley Judd does a great performance as an Alcohol addicted mother and Ellen Burstyn is also good as the older character, played by Ashley Judd. The humour is funny enough and does not go overboard. See this film with your girl friends, and make sure you bring a box of Kleenex with you. A two thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"Didn't like it much, but has some good things.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Divine Secrets Of The Ya-Ya Sisterhood is a chick flick, for sure. I didn't like it much, but I think that's because I'm a man. Women I know who have seen this movie liked it a little more that I did (my mom, for example). On the other hand, I also know women who didn't like this film. Now I'll talk about the film itself.Ellen Burstyn stars as Vivi Walker, mother of magazine article writer Sidda Walker (Sandra Bullock). Sidda writes an article how she didn't like her childhood and blames her mother. Vivi reads the article, and refuses to speak to her daughter. Vivi's three friends Teensy (Fionnula Flanagan), Necie (Shirley Knight), and Caro (Maggie Smith) notice that she isn't acting like herself and when they found out what happened, they beg Sidda to come down and make peace with her mother. Upon her arrival, the three friends reveal to Sidda about the Ya-Ya Sisterhood, a life long band formed by the three friends and Vivi when they were children. They promised that they would be blood sisters or something like that, I don't remember very well. Along with this story, we flash back to Sidda when she was a child and see her relationship with her mother (played in these scenes by Ashley Judd). James Garner costars as Vivi's husband, but he's a very small part of the movie.I liked some of the acting, particularly Maggie Smith and Sandra Bullock, and the film tells a story worth telling, but some problems drag it down. First, during the flashback scenes, I noticed that Sidda had a few brothers and sisters. However, in the present scenes, they're no where to be found. I admit that the movie is mainly about the relationship of Vivi and Sidda, but considering what happens in the flashback scenes (which I won't reveal), It would have been more plausible if we found out about the siblings now that they've grown up. Also, for me, the movie went on too long. The film is two hours long, but it feels more like it's four hours. Lastly, I thought that the Ellen Burstyn character was kind of a disappointment. Burstyn was much better and more convincing in Requiem For A Dream (2000), which she got a Best Actress nomination for.So, I didn't hate this movie, but it didn't work for me. I think I didn't like it because I'm a man. I have nothing against chick flicks. I think that some overcome the only women will enjoy it thinking such as Emma (1996), Kate And Leopold (2001), The Evening Star (1996), and arguably the best example, Gone With The Wind (1939). Ya-Ya doesn't cross that line. I know that women will enjoy it much more than men. I'm thinking some men would compare viewing this movie to medieval torture. Even though I didn't like it, I didn't think about it like that. To prove my point, I'm going to quote a couple I saw in the video store, trying to pick a movie out. The woman saw Ya-Ya on the shelf.Woman Oh, look. Divine Secrets Of The Ya-Ya Sisterhood. I wanted to see that.Man You can see that one by yourself, I'm not going to see it.I at least was willing to see this film. Women will most likely enjoy it, most men probably won't, but I could be wrong.2 Stars out of 4 Stars  "},{"Title":"Okay, but a glitch","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Better than I had expected, but still a problem.I found a lot of this to be dreamy romantic. There was an exception which jarred, though. How Sandra's mum's belief system disorder was shown to be central. The comments by the priest.If one has been in that sort of situation, then one knows that the portrayal has a truth, while also being misleading to outsiders. The priest is made to show something that, in reality, comes from all sorts of directions in that culture, or its equivalents. Those outside of that culture gradually carry out that priest role, too.A fairly small point within the context of the story, but in this tit for tat world with its foundations rooted in intolerance this seems to me to be an important point to make.The solution, for me, was to note that in this story, and such as Sacred Hearts 1995, there are several Catholics involved, most not showing these sorts of symptoms. They are just mangled to the extent that normal people are. Ouch. There are stories where all the players are mangled, but this is not one.Apart from that, better than expected. "},{"Title":"Time line skewed","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The skewed time line is what kept me from enjoying this movie more. Siddel's childhood had to be in the 1950's, which would mean that Sandra Bullock was playing a woman about 50. Nothing in the movie (look at the way Sandra Bullock was dressed and her hair) hinted at the present time being in the 1980's. Other than that issue, this was a good movie. I loved Siddel's boyfriend's frustration with his soon to be in-laws, he should have gotten a larger role. James Garner is always great, but unbelievable that any man could live with a wife like his all those years and come out of it with his mild demeanor. In reality he would either be a henpecked shadow of a man, beaten down, or he would be as bad as his wife. "},{"Title":"not as good as i thought it would be","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read the book that this movie was based on and found it amazing. it portrayed a new genre of women (really cheeky and bad but so loving and wonderful and sisterly that it made up). The book was excellent and the story flowed so when I heard it was to be made into a movie I was eager to see it. I was however, unfortunately disappointed with the results. The actors were suitably and quite well cast and the acting was good too, especially by the actors who played Vivi, however the story just didn't work. It missed out essential details and pretty much changed the storyline to suit a budget and time period, the fact that Sidda didn't willingly go to her friends cabin to find herself and she was drugged by the yayas just didn't make sense and the movie genre changed from what could have been a drama with comedy mixed in to a miss matched and wrongly timed comedy that wasn't really that funny. I was disappointed with the film and feel it might have been better not to make it into a movie at all. It lacked so much of the southern culture and spirit that made the book a best seller. "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie on HBO and hesitate to even give it as much as a 5. It is mildly interesting but the story is just not really that believable. When you finally find out the 'big secret', it's kind of like 'That's it?' and you wonder why in the world it was such a big secret to begin with.  I just couldn't believe that a mother, or the father for that matter, wouldn't just tell the kids what was going on to keep them from needing therapy later on.  Or at least make up another story so the kids don't feel as if it's their fault.  Also, I find it hard to believe that these women even remained friends for so many years because the way they act and talk to each other, it doesn't seem that they even like one another.  The flashbacks are confusing because you're never really sure who is who.  That could have been made more clear.  On a positive note, I thought Ashley Judd gave a good performance, as she normally does.  But overall, the story and the characters are not interesting enough to make me want to watch it again. "},{"Title":"What's the secret in all that?","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You watch all the movie, you're really waiting for the big secret with for a big end and it just ends... and you wonder 'What was the secret again?' I think the title of the movie could have been something else!I saw this movie at the theater with my little sister who's 17 and we had the same reactions... Sometimes you just want more, sometimes the movie is just okay and other times you're wondering when it will end!Good movie overall... "},{"Title":"Not Very Original","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a film with a troubled woman who resolves her problem by listening to other women talk about their past (via flashbacks).  Very similar to Fried Green Tomatoes and How to Make an American Quilt  If you liked those movies then you'll probably like this one.  It was a decent movie, but not at all original in concept. "}{"Title":"sandra bullcok's worst film","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this was her worst film period,and being such a huge sandra bullock fan that says something.I thought the plot was very annoying,and I thought she was unfunny.The actresses chossen to play the old women did not look old enough anf I thought over all the script needed better work. "},{"Title":"Not my cup of tea","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you are 60 years old, female, have children and faced a lot of difficulties in life, then you will enjoy this film. Otherwise, you will find this a terrible bore. The issues that this film explores is simply irrelevant to most of the movie-goers. The film is supposed to be touching, indeed a soul searching experience. However, the topic doesn't concern me. It is not my cup of tea. "},{"Title":"Not So Divine","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What's a Ya-Ya anyway? To the Rolling Stones (Get Your Ya-Yas Out) a Ya-Ya is a noun, but in the movie's context, Ya-Ya appears to be an adjective. The move doesn't explain the term, nor why the secrets of said sisterhood should have any divinity.  Actually, the divine secrets are rather pedestrian, especially in the literary context of mentally disturbed white people in the Deep South before air conditioning. The story extends across three generations of a rural Louisiana family, from the present back to the current Ya-Ya matriarch's childhood in the 1930s.The movie is not a failure although it certainly flirts with catastrophe through its entire length. Its salvation arises from two sources. (1)  The movie swings skillfully between the present, and the intervening periods of Depression, WWII and 1950s, as the secrets are slowly exposed. (2) An all-star cast that takes the movie seriously and doesn't go over the top.For a romance movie, The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood is satisfactory, but it doesn't transcend the genre.  "},{"Title":"Ya-Ya is blah-blah.","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Being a teenager this movie might just not suit me.  I rented it with my mother.  This was a good idea since I think this movie is a chick flick and should be watched as a mother-daughter movie.   Sandra Bullock (Siddalee Walker) does an alright job in this movie.  I've seen her act better.  In fact at times she made me think --- boring.  But she had her moments, and I think Bullock is more of a comedic actress.  She was better at the comedy parts of the movie instead of the more serious. Ellen Burstyn plays Vivi Walker, mother of Siddalee with a past brought up by an interview of Siddalee in Time Magazine.  Burstyn's role is also just so-so.  I would have liked to see more of her throughout the movie, but we got what we got. I would have to say that the one role which stuck out the most, for the better, was the role of younger Vivi played by Ashley Judd.  She did a wonderful job making the character convincing, at the happy times and the bad times.  I just thought this character was the most well rounded and best acted in the movie. Rounding out the cast was James Garner, Angus MacFadyen, Maggie Smith, Cherry Jones, Shirley Knight, Fionnula Flanagan, Matthew Settle, and David Lee Smith. Just a little note --- David Lee Smith plays the younger Shep Walker in The Divine Secrets of The Ya-Ya Sisterhood.  This film was also filmed around and in the same location as A Walk To Remember.  In fact David Lee Smith was also in the movie A Walk To Remember as Mr. Carter, Landon's father.  Ya-Ya and A Walk To Remember were filmed at the same time.  This is just some random info for you movie buffs. All in all--- 2 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"save yourselves!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  DIVINE SECRETS had nowhere to go.  It thought it was a comedy but it also thought it was a period drama.  And, at points, maybe even a psychological exploration of a woman gone mad.  Yes, all this adds for an unpleasant viewing experience.  SPOILER!!!!!!!How can you make light of an elderly alcoholic in the present tense but then turn around and completely condemn her past?  Is that a secret too? "},{"Title":"complex beyond need","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  each person three different ages edited together patchwork quilt style makes for a very tough viewing. sure some people are just shown at two different ages, but this is a very difficult film to buy into in one viewing, and frankly the second time around doesn't do all that much for me either.If you are a big fan of how Spielberg tells a story, steer clear of how others tell this one! "},{"Title":"As always, the book is better.","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I must have read Rebecca Wells's collected works on the Ya-Yas and petite Ya-Yas a dozen times...I went to the theatre with my closest girlfriends, expecting to be wowed by an incredible cast and fabulous story...Talk about let-down!  Maybe I'm just a stickler for the books, but I found the movie to be rather unfaithful. It wasn't the details (like Connor being Irish, not northern- that was okay) that got me; it was the overall tone of the movie.  Parts of the book that seemed sad and true and GOOD were ruined by silly one-liners.For me the best parts of the movie were the scenes involving Ashley Judd as young Vivi...In fact, I was pleased with most of the old parts of the movie. Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood wasn't a TERRIBLE movie, but please do the story justice and read the book (and its companion, Little Altars Everywhere). "},{"Title":"Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood  Not So Divine After All","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood sounds like an interesting film with a juicy interesting plot to accompany it-But it's not.  Instead, the plot is this  Budding playwright Siddalee Walker is interviewed by Times magazine.  What she says gets taken out of context and is read by her mother, Viviane Abbott Walker, who promptly gets extremely upset.  This takes place in the first 20 minutes or so.  The rest of the almost 2 hour long movie consists of the mother's friends from childhood, the rest of the Ya-Ya gang explaining her mother's past to Sidalee, in an effort to get her to better understand her mother.Since almost the entire movie is an explanation of the past, almost the entire movie takes place in flashbacks.  These flashbacks were hard to understand for a few reasons.  Number one, they never said who was who, other than to say who young Viviane was.  This leaves the viewer left floundering as to who the other three young friends were supposed to be. The second problem with these flashbacks is that they weren't pieced together, and instead happened in what seemed to be a random order, not giving any mention to when they were supposed to take place.  The viewer is, instead, supposed to accept the fact that Viviane just had a daughter, and in the next scene is about 13, and not even thinking about guys with whom she would want to have a daughter.While in the commercials Divine Secrets appeared to be a comedic film, it was in reality far from it.  Saundra delivered, to my count, one funny line in the entire film.  The few other lines that might be considered humorous were delivered by Siddalee's fiance, Connor McGill, and only by him.The movie had few saving graces.  In fact, the only one worth mentioning is the acting.  Had the acting been worse, this movie would never have gotten off the ground, and would never have grossed any money.  The director, Callie Khouri, did what she could to work with the movie, but due to the poor quality of the screenplay, could not do much to save it.  The screenplay writer, Mark Andrus, can not be entirely blamed for this travesty, seeing as how the movie was an adaptation of a novel written by Rebecca Wells.  Overall, I would recommend that you do not see this movie and instead save your money for something interesting.  "},{"Title":"Confusing and Sleep-Inducing","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"       Since so much analysis has already been offered, I'll merely add personal commentary.  I was unable to discern one character from the other, that is, the young version from the old version -- in wonderful Maggie Smith's case, the really old version.  A few names were similar, and without the benefit of closed caption , some of the dialogue was lost.  (I viewed this on DVD.)  I was surprised at the tone of this film -- dark, dark, dark.  What problems the one family had!  The drowning act was rather dangerous.  So much of this film seemed forced just to fit the plot.  In college three friends and I formed our own funny club, borne from a silly, singular situation.  We, however, weren't so screwed up as the Ya-Ya (Yo-Yo) belles, and alcohol played no part, as in this film.  With the memories of our group in mind, I eagerly anticipated this film, and, wow, was I disappointed. I did like the mother/daughter banging the phone duet at the beginning.  And, yes, James Garner's talent was wasted.  Four dollars gone forever! "},{"Title":"good but not great","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is worth seeing.  The comedy is valid.  The relationships are meaningful.  The acting is good quality.  The overall rating is still a 6 out of 10.  The film has redeeming qualities with a warm overall feeling at the end. "}{"Title":"I saw it on a cross country flight for free and hated it","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film on a cross country flight for free, and I have to say it was the biggest waste of time.  I could have been looking for crop circles from the 35,000.  I saw the film and thought I paid attention, but I have no idea what it was about.  I gave this film 1 out of 10.  It would have received a zero, but A. Judd is in it and she is sweet to look at. Don't waste your time, look for crop circles instead. "},{"Title":"Acting Great / Plot Terrible","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With all these great actresses I was expecting a great story....WRONG!! Don't get me wrong however....the acting was TREMENDOUS...the story line was terrible.  Allot of females could relate to the Ashley Judd character....BEEN THERE DONE THAT sort of thing.  It was NOT entertaining!! And for you guys out there...definitely a 'chick-flick'. Watching the mother PMS for 1hr56mins was draining and exhausting.  If I drank, I would of needed one after this movie (and kids to blame it on...and a lost love, etc, etc, etc)!!! "},{"Title":"Am i the only one that felt like you were missing pieces?","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read both books and then watched the movie, the movie doesn't follow the book at all, and it's barely the same storyline. It was cute though. I liked the movie as long as you don't have high expectations of following the book. Also the movie spans about 40 years from the late 30's to the 90's why does Vivi barely age through the 50's-70's she keeps the exact same look, hair and clothes. I realize that you can only do so much but have the style match just a little bit of the times. Read Little Alters Everywhere and you'll have different opinion of Vivi. If I never read the books I would really enjoy the movie, I think the storyline in the movie was a little more interesting and fun then the actual one.  It makes it interesting that she gets kidnapped by her mothers friends rather then thinking in solitude in a Pacific Northwest cabin with her mothers diary that she sent to her.  "},{"Title":"too uneven to like","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First off the movie wasn't totally awful, there were some noteworthy performances by Ellen Burstyn and Maggie Smith but the movie just fell apart with the slow pacing and the uneven flow of emotions.the story changes gears so quickly that you do not have enough time to laugh or cry. Moreover, the relationship between the Ya-Ya sisters was barely explored and the flashbacks throughout the film only made their bond even more unclear. I disliked Sandra Bullock's acting and the way she comes off in this movie. At first she's the hot topic playwright with the stone cold heart and then she's the empathetic daughter who feels sorry for what she did to her momma. Altogether this film is a sordid piece of fabricated emotions that tries to make you relate to wooden characters that could have been better explored. 4/10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Great acting but bad movie","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was very excited about this movie coming out.  Roger Ebert had said that he didn't believe a single character or a single moment of the movie.  I set out to prove him wrong, only to find out that he was completely right. Although everyone puts in a really great effort, there is too much of the book trying to be squeezed into the movie, or something was just missing but really very little to none of the movie was believable at all.  It just never came together.  I thought it was going to be a comedy due to the grossly-misleading commercials.  Instead, the only funny moments are the ones you have already seen on television, the rest was a failed attempt at a heart-wrenching movie.  I found this movie to be a waste of time and money, and very disappointing considering huge actresses like Maggie Smith, Ashley Judd, and so many others.  Maggie Smith's southern accent sounds British half of the time, and so many others sound like they are trying to imitate southern accents from Gone With The Wind--even in the scenes from the present day.  (I am from the south).  If you are looking to go spend some special moments with your mother, buy the book on tape and listen to it. You will have a much better time than if you go to see this film with her. "},{"Title":"Boring and disappointing","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No, my wife did NOT drag me to this chick flick; the trailers actually showed promise.  But if you watch the trailers over and over again, you get the best of this movie.  It was boring and disappointing.  Good acting, however, and a few yuks -- but not nearly enough to overcome a mediocre movie.  5 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Urghhh","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the worst films we've seen in a long time.  I usually adore Maggie Smith but her Southern accent makes Dick van Dyke sound a convincing cockney.    One of those movies that makes a wonderful cast (on paper) truly terrible.    My lover gave up on it before the end but I went upstairs to him afterwards and challenged him to guess the last two lines of the film. I suppose it wasn't too much of a challenge to guess I love you Mom I love you, too, -------   (Fill in the blank.   Here it was Sunflower a soubriquet that the character had never been called heretofore.) The daughter is supposed to have written a play about her childhood which is good enough for the play to have been produced on Broadway.   And yet she wasn't even perceptive enough to know that her mother had had a nervous breakdown.............? Crap of the worst commercial order. Anyone who compares it to STEEL MAGNOLIAS, clearly only saw the crappy film, not the touching, steely and witty play. "},{"Title":"viewing through a testosterone filter","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood' is about a mother/daughter conflict and then friends come to the rescue.  A simple plot about some of our society's unimaginably complex unwritten and unspoken rules.Ya-Ya is a wonderful cinematic experience.   The acting and dialog are absolutely first rate and every major role is virtually perfect.   They will be throwing darts at the cast credits to pick award winners. The movie is worth the price of admission just to see Maggie Smith perform even when she has no dialogue.The movie's most remarkable aspect is what happens when it is viewed through a testosterone filter.   It is illuminating to look at the IMDB voting demographics.  One quarter of the males voting on this movie have given it a `1' out of 10 while only about 3% of the females gave it a `1'. Considering that there always appears to be a 3-5% background noise on any voting this an astounding gender discrepancy.    As a 56 year old male it has only been in the last decade that I've had any inkling of the intricacies of female interactive dynamics.  I suspect that puts me ahead of the curve as far as males go.  As a society we indoctrinate our young females into the issues of the emotional power struggle, the dynamics of the `pecking order', and day-to-day collegial help and support at a level far removed from that which most males experience.  I won't argue whether or not this is sexist but I believe the observation to be valid.  This movie deals with these issues and, as such, I suspect the fundamental substance of the movie is illusive for much of the male audience.At its heart this is not a chick movie.  A `chick movie' is about things that female moviegoers like.  This movie is about what it is to be raised a female in our society.   Ya Ya   9/10  "},{"Title":"Saccharine and banal","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has been on the pay channels so long and its mere presence on my digital cable menu has been an irritant for months.  So I figured that maybe if I actually just watched it, it may go away.Hopefully my sacrifice will benefit the greater good because it was such a lame piece of celluloid I was wishing for any kind of interruption to put me out of my misery.  Unfortunately, I didn't get it so suffer I did.This is a classic `chick flick' in the spirit of Fried Green Tomatoes, only it wasn't remotely clever or endearing.  Sandra Bullock whines, throws tantrums and sulks throughout the film while `learning about why her mother is the way she is'.  Ellen Burstyn, who plays her mother, is grossly underused as is the fantastic Maggie Smith.  The entire film was embarrassingly predictable, and when I presume I was supposed to go, `Awwww' with a tear in my eye and clapping my hands with glee I was looking around for a receptacle.  Female empowerment?  No.  Waste of time?  Yes.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"Debatable","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Divine secrets of the ya ya sisterhood is not as good as I thought it would be. It does feature good performances from Ellen Burstyn, Sandra bullock, Maggie smith, and Ashley Judd. Judd is particularly great here, her best performance If u ask me. The script is so so. That's the key with this film, the actor's performances are great, but the script is questionable. The storyline is sweet, with some mature and very heavy subject matters. It is handled nicely I think, but there are just soma kinda uneven places in the movie. I dint think it's a bad movie at all, I just personally believe it could have been better than it was. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Ya-Ya Don't See It.","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood (2002) Dir Callie Khouri / Cast Sandra Bullock, Ellen Burstyn, Ashley Judd, James Garner, Maggie Smith About bonding and emotional scars left on others. Interesting setup turns into a sitcom with Sandra Bullock as a playwright interviewed where her views of her mother are not taken pleasantly. The Ya-Ya Sisterhood is four women who made a pact in their younger years. Ellen Burstyn plays Bullock's mother whose behaviour is so excessive that she sends Bullock photos with her face burned out. Likewise Bullock issues wedding invitations missing the date and time. The remaining sisters decide to drug Bullock and spirit her away where reflection and harsh growing up begins. Director Callie Khouri is backed with decent sets. Ellen Burstyn is too excessive with contrived reasoning. Sandra Bullock as her daughter is reciting tired material. Ashley Judd as young Burstyn delivers the one performance that works as she displays her pain and grief from her past. James Garner as Burstyn's husband is there for plot convenience. There are a few veteran actresses involved in this tripe led by Maggie Smith who is better than this material deserves. Theme regarding abuse passed down is evident while the pain of the screenplay is even more noticeable. In the end this is just a laughable contrivance right up to its corny ending. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"A Difficult But Nicely Balanced Dramatically Edited Movie","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With all the characters, the emotive comedic and dramatic plots, and multi-generational time periods to be captured on film, this movie is a result of a remarkable editing and directorial job to make it enjoyable, balanced, and appealing watchable. The interweaving comedy offered up by the characters along with some fairly emotionally violent scenes is made possible by well executed editing and timing. This movie looks at the connections of family dynamics through time, the dysfunctional impact of differences is memory perception and recall, the horrors substance abuse, family violence, and neglect. This movie is about facing the past, talking, and resolving family problems instead of allowing them to fester and tear a family and current relationships apart. It is facing up to problems through openness even though it hurts.Other powerful familial stories are presenting in the more youthful and serious focus in Where the Lilies Bloom (1974), the family serio-comedy Uptown Girls (2003), the family drama with ethnic humor Lost in Yonkers (1993). Ya Ya Sisterhood is less consistently dramatically intense than say the dysfunctional mental family issues of Proof (2005) but much less silly and delightfully ridiculous than the insightful family comedy of Paddington (2015). This movie is more in the vein of the generational depiction found in Drew Barrymore's experience in Riding In Cars with Boys (2001) or less raw seriousness of Nicole Kidman's experience in Margot at the Wedding (2007) or similar to the depiction of the consequences of abuse and neglect in The Human Stain (2003). Perhaps, Ya, Ya Sisterhood might be closely compared to the multi-generational performances found in Georgia Rule (2007) and even more entertaining than the classic depiction of American dysfunction found in American Beauty (2000) or less epic and substantively dense than the gorgeously depicted ethnic generational piece of The Joy Luck Club (1993).In short this entertaining movie has something valuable to say about family and secrets. "},{"Title":"Confusion","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Sisterhood is portrayed in now and then. The casting of the older sisterhood was Ellen Burstyn as Vivi, Fionnula Flanagan as Teensey, Shirley Knight as Necie and Maggie Smith as Caro, all brilliant. The problem was the casting of the four actresses who portrayed the sisterhood when they were younger. Ashley Judd does not resemble Ellen Burstyn as a younger woman and neither do the other three actresses portraying Teensey, Necie and Maggie, respectively. This made the film very confusing to watch. The film often reverted back and forth, from present day to the past. As the writers did not use the sisterhood names enough in the script, the viewer could not readily identify who they were.EXAMPLE (SPOILER ALERT) Ashley Judd is riding a bike with a friend (never identified, is it Carol or Necie or somebody else?) over a bridge. They are stopped by a young man. Who is he? (I had to look up his face on IMDb to find he is listed as Vivi's brother, Pete!) The young man says, Vivi, we have to go to Teensey's house. He was sad. They leave to go to Teensey's house. I still do not know who is the other girl on the bike. If the writers had added to Pete's dialogue, Caro (or Necie?), come with us then it would have helped the viewer know who she is. When the three arrive at Teensey's house, you slowly realize that Teensey's brother is Jack, Vivi's fiancé, who was killed in the war. And the viewer was to know they were related, how? This happened so often in the film that I kept rewinding scenes to get the film.The film is a disturbing look at Vivi's life. She never recovered from Jack's death, married Shep (James Garner) on the rebound, had 4 children, and was completely unhappy, almost to the point of hating everyone around her. She heads on a downward spiral, ending up an alcoholic.(SPOILER ALERT) When Siddalee (excellently portrayed by Sandra Bullock, as Vivi's eldest daughter) was a young girl, Vivi had a total nervous breakdown. Vivi then disappeared, in Siddalee's eyes. Siddalee and her siblings thought their mother went away because they were bad. Siddalee remembers it wrongly because Vivi made Shep swear never to tell the children she had been committed. Because this tragic secret had never been revealed to Siddalee, she had been in and out of therapy her entire life.I am honestly not an Ashley Judd fan. Most of the film rested on her shoulders. We realize that Vivi is emotionally scarred due to a jealous, mentally unstable mother. I could've felt sorry for Vivi, but Judd did not make the character likable. In many scene, Judd either underacts or overacts. Later in the film, the modern-day Necie says to Siddalee, I wish you could've known your mother when she was younger. She was so likable. And I said out loud, no, she not. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I LOVED this movie! It was great! I found that the changes were clever (how Sidda gets abducted instead of going to the cabin alone) and when it was over, I just HAD to go ready the book! This movie has to be on of my favorite movies ever, and I suggest that everyone goes and sees it. I did think it was a chick flick, (I counted 5 guys in the theater!) but that shouldn't stop anyone from seeing it. "},{"Title":"Chick Flick","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I got dragged to see this movie and I wish I was drugged before I saw it. Totally boring and definately a movie for the chicks.  If you are a guy and you see this movie, then there is only one thing I have to say to you (Stifler from American Pie) I think you need your balls reattached!  "},{"Title":"this review for men only...","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  NOTE if you are of the female gender, the following does not applyto you. Read at your own risk.I saw this movie only because the Sum of All Fears was virtuallysold out, and I didn't want to go 40 miles back home for nothing onmy Sunday off.It didn't suck. If your wife/significant other insists on seeing it, go.Don't kick and scream, just go. It will probably surprise you(pleasantly). The only member of the cast who does yield to the temptation tooveract is Judd, and only slightly.Yes, it is a chick flick but there are many that are worse... "},{"Title":"Divine Secrets brings a beloved book to life.","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For the many who love Rebecca Welles' book of the same name, The Divine Secrets of the Ya Ya Sisterhood will not disappoint. The film captures the wonderful Southern quirkiness, humor, and pathos that made so many of us read and re-read the book. It's a story about human family, frailty, and forgiveness to which I think men and women can relate. Ellen Burstyn's performance as older Vivi is outstanding, while veterans Fionulla Flanagan (a scene stealer), Maggie Smith, and Shirley Knight portray the other mature Ya Yas exactly as they should be. Ashley Judd is a surprise in her sensitive portrayal of younger Vivi. Sandra Bullock makes us laugh (a lot) and cry as Sidda. And James Garner and Angus MacFadyen tackle the thankless male roles beautifully. I have been waiting for this film for a long time, and I do believe they got it right! "},{"Title":"Southern Fried Insanity.","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With a superb cast and an outstanding novel on which to base this marvelous film how could anything possibly go wrong?All Girl Productions, Bette Midler's production company, doesn't exactly have an stupendous track record with films like `For the Boys,' `That Old Feeling' and `Man of the House.'  The one lone big winner was `Beaches.'  AGP also produced Ms Midler's short-lived television show, &#145;Bette' which really never took off.  But they have another great film in `Divine Secrets...'Casting was the key to making this film work on the level that the novel achieved.  Sandra Bullock and James Garner look like they belong together; their onscreen chemistry was incredible. It was easy to believe they were father and daughter.Ellen Burstyn as Sidilee's (Sandra Bullock) mother was a study in elegant, insane alcoholism with Ashley Judd playing her younger self.  Both were incredible.Maggie Smith was splendid as the oxygen tank-toting Caro.  She had some of the funniest and most incisive lines.The soundtrack (for the most part) added to the Southern ambience with one Zydeco number being particularly exceptional at evoking the entire Southern Experience.The photography was excellent -- the settings and locales were used to the utmost.Since the supporting story is told in a series of flashbacks there are times that people in the audience were a bit confused at to exactly what was going on...  Maybe they should go back and see it again.This is a true ensemble film and the Four Sisters of the Ya-Ya were completely believable as being friends from childhood. They were all great together and individually.This may not be a film for everyone -- but it is for anyone that has ever had a mother that they didn't really understand. "},{"Title":"Look Butterbean","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie made me cry, number one because its SOUTHERN!!!!!! and number two, I could identify with every single mother-daughter relationship in the film. I was a daughter, now I am a mother who is raising her daughters based on my own mother's performance. It is so ironic, that we try so hard to be nothing like our own mothers that we end up committing the same mistakes just in different ways. "},{"Title":"sorry to say...not as good as the book(s)...","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not at all saying that this movie isn't worth seeing. Who could live up to Divine Secrets... the book!? But there is one huge problem with this movie. Both Divine Secrets and Little Altars Everywhere are combined into this movie. These are two radically different books. They both tell the story of the Ya-Yas, though Divine Secrets... focuses on their exploits as children and young women exploring their friendship together. It's an explanation of where the Ya-Yas came from. Little Altars Everywhere tells the story of the tumultuous lives of the Ya-Yas as wives and mothers, and is a difficult, at times depressing book. I went, as did many others, I assume, to see Divine Secrets... on the big screen. And they've left out several of the hilarious anecdotes from that book, which were replaced by heartbreaking scenes from Little Altars Everywhere. People were sobbing openly in the movie theatre, and that's something I didn't expect. And I think I was not the only one. My mother, for example, has chosen not to read Little Altars Everywhere for fear it would be depressing and hit too close to home. For her, the movie absolutely was too close to home. I think a lot of people would like to maintain the view of the Ya-Yas put forth by Divine Secrets... rather than by Little Altars Everywhere. I'm not saying it wasn't reality for those particular women, but it doesn't have to be for women wanting to create their own Ya-Ya-ness now. The bottom line is this I was disappointed that the Pooty Pootwell story was not in the movie! But round up your mothers, daughters, sisters, and girlfriends, (or a man you want to punish) and go see it anyway! It's still good to see friends who stick together through everything and can be totally honest with one another.  "}{"Title":"Is a film ever as good as the book?","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although I really, really loved the book and the film was quite different and left out some key moments, I did like this movie.  Kudos to the Divine Miss M (Bette Midler), who executive-produced, for bringing this to the screen with such a fabulous cast.  Ellen Burstyn is so gorgeous and is great in the lead role.  Ashley Judd does a beautiful job as the younger version of the same character.  One itsy bitsy observation  while I never caught too much of Maggie Smith's British accent, I did catch Fionnula Flanagan in a couple of betrayals of her Irish accent, (e.g. troast, instead of trust, which in Louisiana would be more like truuuust!!)...  No big deal, of course.  Shirley Knight, as Necie, seemed just as unimportant a character as she did in the book.  The only important point she seemed to serve was in being the only one not to go to Atlanta, so Vivi would have someone to write to.  Maybe she is there to illustrate the old adage, They also serve who sit and wait, (or something close to that!).  For those of you who read the book, maybe you were (or will be) as disappointed as I was that the film omits key elements of the book such as Vivi being shipped off to convent school and the toll it takes on her young life, and the climactic wedding scene amongst the sunflowers.  The storyline was rearranged to have Sidda kidnapped and taken to Louisiana, rather than going from NY to Seattle, then having the Ya-Yas go to Seattle, and Sidda and Connor finally making their way in a storm (and so late they almost miss Vivi's birthday party) to Louisiana.  I suppose this was done to make the story fit a 2-hour time frame.  Personally I would have gladly sat through another half hour to make it flow a little better...it seemed to weaken the whole idea of the Ya-Yas' mission to reveal the past to Sidda when Shep (James Garner) mosied out to the cabin and muttered a few words of support.  Still, it's fantastic to see strong female characters played by outstanding actresses.  This kind of thing is, after all, a fairly new ballgame.    "},{"Title":"where was pooty pootwell????????","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a really good movie, but they left out some really good scenes from the book. When I read about Pooty Pootwell I couldn't stop laughing. I figured that they would have it in the movie because there weren't any pee-in-your-pants scenes. I know that they just didn't want to make a long movie but they should have left some more of the scenes where they were little girls in. Like the trip to Georgia. That was such a fun part in the book. But aside from all that, I thought it was a pretty good movie. They did an excellent job on casting the characters. Fionnula Flanagan (Teensy), Shirley Knight(Necie), Maggie Smith(Caro, and Ellen Burstyn(Vivi) were just amazing. I recommend going to see this movie. I would give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Overall not bad","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (CAUTION  MAY CONTAIN PLOT SPOILERS)  I was looking forward to seeing this film as I'd read the book a few years ago. I was pleasantly surprised to see that Sandra Bullock was MUCH better as Sidda than I thought she'd be. Overall, the movie was about average, but I think the plot needed to be developed a bit more, particularly the point about why Vivi (Ellen Burstyn) acted the way she did.   It seemed as though there were a few holes that needed to be explained better than they were.  The cast worked well together, and they had good chemistry.  Dame Maggie Smith was wonderful, as was James Garner.  Definitely a movie for girls night out.  Leave the fellas at home.      "},{"Title":"Coming to terms with the mother/daughter relationship.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie was incredible!!! The relationship between a mother and daughter is often a difficult one. The exploration of why Siddie's mother was the way she was I felt is what made this movie a 10. Sandra Bulloock, Ellen Burstyn, Ashley Judd and the entire cast were spectacular. In my book this is a must see!!   "},{"Title":"A movie worth seeing with great performances","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is worth seeing. It is a very well written and acted movie.Sandra Bullock,Ellen Burstyn,and Ashley Judd give amazing performances. They were incredible and they make you feel so much for their characters.The movie was filled with wonderful and funny supporting characters as well. Maggie Smith and James Garner rocked. Fionnula Flanagan and Shireley Knight were awesome and the actress that played the younger Sidda, Allison Bertolino was phenomenal .I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"My new all-time favorite movie!!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie with my teenage daughter. We laughed. We cried. We understood. This was an incredible film. It is now my all-time favorite movie. You can bet that I will tell every woman that I know to go see this movie. I don't think there are many women who can't relate to this story in more ways than they would probably be willing to admit. I can't wait until it hits DVD so that I can laugh/cry to my heart's content! Sandra Bullock was, as always, absolutely awesome!! "},{"Title":"Flawed but funny and supremely entertaining.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Critics be damned, I loved this movie.  I know it is flawed, and won't win any awards for writing, editing or best picture, but it is a very entertaining movie with charisma to spare.  Great Friday night out with the girls kind of flick. The audience was about 90% female and all seemed to be having a great time.  I highly recommend this movie if you want to turn your brain off and just relax and laugh little and maybe cry a little and feel good when its all over.   "},{"Title":"What a movie!!!!!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow, I loved this movie!  Having read the book 3 times, and passed it along to friends who also loved it, I was so excited to hear it was being made into a movie.  My friend & I cried most of the way through it.  I came out drained, and can't wait to see it again.  This is a movie that I will definitely buy when it comes out on video.  With a cast of Ashley Judd, Ellen Burstyn, Sandra Bullock, James Garner, etc, I knew I would love it.When I read this book for the first time, I immediately read it over again. I can't explain why or how exactly it affected me so much, but it did.  I usually trade books in to a used book store when I finish them, but this is 1 of the few that I've kept.  Because of the movie, I'm now reading it again.Of course things are always cut out or changed when they make the movie, but overall the changes were ok.  I do wish they hadn't cut so much out, but if they used all of both books, it would be 24 hours long!I don't know what seeing the movie would be like if you haven't read the books.  If you haven't read them both, go out & get them now, you won't be sorry.  We all need Ya-Ya's in our lives.YA-YA!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great but flawed film","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'll need to read Well's book to appreciate much of this movie.  The performances were great but Holly Hunter would have done better in the role of Siddalee.  Sandra Bullock hasn't an ounce of the South in her performance and she's at least ten years too young for the role anyway.Anyone else wonder where Sidda's brother and sisters were in her adult years?  I was fearing that they would die in a crash of the red airplane and rested easier when it landed unscathed.  And where was husband Shep when Vivi was abusing herself and their kids?  The movie hints at incest in Vivi's youth but doesn't pursue the thread.  And didn't the other Ya-Ya sisters have children of their own?  In whose cabin did Sidda's re-education take place?Even without closure on these issues this is a powerful movie you shouldn't miss. "},{"Title":"Definitely a 10!","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had read the book about 8 months ago, and I was absolutely thrilled when I found out they were going to create it into a film. I've been waiting so long for it to come out, and this film was definitely worth the wait! I loved it! No, it wasn't as good as the book, but what movie is ever as good as the book? They got all of the important parts into the film and the details. The film was just as touching and moving.The cast was also very well picked. Ashley Judd and Ellen Burstyn did a fabulous job, they better be nominated for an Oscar. Sandra Bullock also gave a GREAT performance, much better than her other films. It was also great to see Maggie Smith in such a different role than her norm. The film was great, and I recommend it to everyone! Go see it!!!!!!!!! 20/10Ya-Ya!!!!!! ) "}{"Title":"i really enjoyed this","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great acting by all- I just wanted more! I think they did use some of the most important parts of the story though and that really is the point. I wanted to know more about the Ya-Ya's as a group and how they were- like in the books.  "},{"Title":"Yeeehaw! (daintily of course)","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ya ya! I've never read the book, but the movie is precious. It's a trip down a psychological highway and steeped in Creole Southern twangs and family secrets. It mixes up to be a hell of a road and eerily like real life. There's something that's nice to see, considering the best movies are the most life like.Imagine Maggie Smith rolling around an Oxygen tank in designer clothes slipping people (including Sandra Bullock) Mickey Finns and making it look realistic (funny, I know people who would do something like that). Then think of Ashley Judd having a nervous breakdown and whipping her children with a belt buckle till they bleed.It's a chick flick, I don't see men liking it all that much, so with a chick flick comes a female director who did an outstanding job for a debut. Callie Khouri has created a film that remembers the emotional details without sacrificing them to the greater plot. In fact the only way to enjoy this movie is to actually pay attention to the plethora of details and immerse yourselves in the atmosphere and culture that is prime breeding ground for film auteurs and charcters alike.Ashley Judd deserves something for one hell of a performance. So does Sandra Bullock, and we have to create a Ya-Ya award for the senior dames of Hollywood who came out in force for this flick. God bless actresses and Angus MacFadyen.The delicately balanced and finely tuned relationships that are the crux of the story, are developed beautifully have their expositions in due time, and follow the strict rules of human psychological behavior. Yes it's ok to make a movie about a daughter who forgives her mother. If you pay attention you'll see the validation for any forgiveness that might occur. This isn't Lifetime BS, this is good old fashioned real life.Lousiana, Creole, Catholicism, African American, Seafood, Blues, Bluegrass, love, marriage, family, eccentric names, eccentric people, alcoholism, scary pasts, and all the above. Blend it together and make a drink and you come out with Divine Secrets and some Ya Yas on the side. "},{"Title":"Maggie Smith is worth the price of admission alone!","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Callie Khouri did a great job of writing Thelma & Louise, one of my top 10 movies, so I figured that she would probably do a good job at directing this one.What an understatement!The casting in this movie was absolutely perfect, with Maggie Smith and Ashley Judd being standouts among the stellar cast.  Smith was hysterical, lugging around her oxygen tank and throwing out hilarious one-liners.Judd's portrayal as the young Vivi showed depth, range and emotion that we hadn't yet had the pleasure of seeing in her previous performances.  She continues to prove that she is more than a famous name and a beautiful face. Taking the journey of young Vivi's life with Judd at the helm is to experience it as though it was your own adventure.  Captivating.If you have an unusual family (and let's face it, who out of us doesn't?), you are sure to see yourself somewhere in this film.I wholeheartedly recommend this movie to anyone who likes to get what you pay for.  This is worth the ten bucks I paid, and more!10/10 "},{"Title":"Chick Flick","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ..YaYa.. is definitely a chick flick about the mother-daughter relationship with the ups and the downs, coming to understand each other and self.  Did not read the book so have nothing to go by, but found the film predictable.  A starring vehicle for Sandra Bullock with excellent performances by all.  There is some (humorous) profanity.  "},{"Title":"Truly Divine!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not a truly died-in-the-wool member of G.R.I.T.S. (girls raised in the south), however, my daddy does come from Houston, Texas, so that somewhat makes me an honorary member of the club.  The Ya-Ya Sisterhood is definitely made up of GRITS, four in particular (Vivi, Caro, Teensy, and Necie), who have bonded their lives together through blood, chocolate, booze, boyfriends, children, and the mystical mumbo gumbo of the sisterhood that's gone before them (even though they made up Ya-Yas).The focus of this film and the books (Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood and Little Altars) is on the lives of Siddalee Walker and her mother, Vivi, who have come to a crossroads in their relationship. Siddalee is engaged (finally).  She's a famous New York playwright whose interview for a major publication is not sitting well with her mama in Louisiana.  Both are unable to wade through the fog of the past without the help of their Ya-Ya sisters and help they do, even though it's sort of backwards.  Through a series of recollections of a lifetime of peaks and valleys, both Vivi and Sidda learn the value of building strong healthy relationships not only with family and God, but within themselves.This is a funny, sad, somewhat daunting look at the Mother and Child reunion.  Sandra Bullock has pulled out of a sort of `goofy' phase in her career (I don't believe she snort-laughed one time in this film) and her performance is equal to the caliber of her Oscar-winning/nominated costars, Ellen Burstyn, Fionnula Flanagan, Shirley Knight, and Maggie Smith.  James Garner, as Vivi's long-suffering husband and Sidda's daddy, Shep, was a perfect casting choice.  The woman who pulls it all together, however, is a charter member of G.R.I.T.S. and portrays the young, emotionally-damaged Vivi, Ashley Judd.  She goes from happy, carefree, and wild, to angry, melancholy, and crazy in the clink of an ice cube.  Southern accents notwithstanding, this is an terrific example of what girlfriendships are all about.  Rating  Bebe sunflower, you know dis gots to be a four.Aliceart Editor-in-Chief Vidiot's Corner  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great movie!!! I attended a premiere showing Monday evening with Indianapolis.  I'm really pleased with the casting and the movie made the points that I thought were important in the book. I can't wait to go see it againthis weekend.Ya-Ya forever, Peggy in Indy "},{"Title":"IF THIS IS NOT UP FOR AN ACADEMY AWARD I DON'T KNOW WHAT WILL","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an outstanding script and the acting from the whole cast,1t is superb.  There is not one performance that is not top notch.  There was so much laughter that you missed parts of the dialog.  Ellen Burstyn is great and this is the best role for Sandra Bullock in ages.  I cannot say enough good things about the whole cast.  Go see this one and you will know what a GREAT MOVIE IS ALL ABOUT. "},{"Title":"What happened to the music that was so important in the book?","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am sooooo disappointed. What happened to all of the singers and musicians who were mentioned over and over again in the book? Please!!! Macy Gray! I could hardly wait to see this movie and part of that anticipation was because I was sure that I would here Barbra Streisand and songs such as Chattanooga Choo-Choo. Oh well, even though the music has been ruined, the story is still good. "},{"Title":"a new all time favorite","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was suggested to me on netflix several months ago but I never had time to watch it or had it sent to my house. Last week I had decided to watch it and it blew me away!!! Since last week I have watched the entire movie 5 times and already bought the DVD. The cast was simply amazing. Ashley Judd's performance as Vivi was spectacular at playing this simple yet wounded character. If you are someone who has gone through hardships you will definitely appreciate this movie.It is vivid, moving, and witty.Definitely an all time favorite ) "},{"Title":"These Women Are Really There For Each Other","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No college sorority was ever as tight as the bond formed by Ellen Burstyn, Shirley Knight, Fionnula Flanagan, and Maggie Smith as the Ya Ya Sisterhood. So when one of them is in trouble, they all jump in to help.In this case Ellen Burstyn possibly the most neurotic of the four has just been cut good and proper by her daughter Sandra Bullock on a television interview. Bullock in a moment of candor says that her growing up in Louisiana was not the happiest childhood she could have had.Of course all the members of the Sisterhood read it and/or hear it and the other three think that it's time that Sandra gets told a few facts about mother and both their childhoods that she didn't know. These crazy old women actually slip Sandra a Mickey Finn and whisk her back to Louisiana for a little heart to heart.Even risking kidnapping charges, these women are really there for each other. We should all be lucky enough to have such friends.This is one of the best films of this new century so far to come out. I enjoyed every blessed nostalgic look back in flashbacks to the events that shaped the lives of Burstyn and Bullock. Ashley Judd's performance as Burstyn's character in young adulthood is also first rate.The great thing about the Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood is that not all of us, not most of us even get to live in ideal Donna Reed or June Cleaver like homes. We make it out of childhood the best we can, with what we can. The most important relationships each of these women have is with each other. That silly little childhood name they chose for their group is what sets them apart and what supports each of them through their individual crisis.Presiding through most of the film is Burstyn's husband and Bullock's father James Garner. In fact Garner through half the film has no dialog at all, but his facial expressions tell everything. He's a lot of the reason that Bullock made it through childhood as well.I can't recommend this film highly enough, it's about four of the best friends ever put on film.YA-YA forever. "}{"Title":"A Little Heads  up....","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think this movie was OK. I went with my mom and it hit too close to home. I did not know fully, what it was about. When I saw her daughter suffering over her mothers medical addiction and the parents sleeping in different rooms. I lost it. When I was 8, my earliest memory was helping my mom to the bathroom because she couldn't walk, she was so drugged upped. I would give anything to make my childhood normal. My only wish is to give my 5 year old a good childhood. I think movies should say if they include parents on drugs and what not. If your parents are normal you don't understand. How do you tell a person they need help? Kid's mean more than anything... "},{"Title":"A good movie- for a really good cry.","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This story comes across as very true and heartfelt, yet easily misunderstood. If you don't understand something of dysfunctional families and human psychology, this movie is not going to make sense for you- you will be looking for something that never comes.When Sidda's offhand comment sparker her mother's rage, the ya-ya's intervene. What about this episode let's them know that it's more serious than any other falling out the two woman have had? Who knows. Maybe it's because Sidda's getting married, and the ya-ya's know that neither will really want the other to miss this important part of Sidda's life. Later, they are even more concerned when Sidda reveals that her past trauma is threatening her future happiness.What is the big secret that lets sidda's mother off the hook for years of abuse and alcoholism and abandonment is NOT the point of the movie. The point comes in Sidda's question- what if I turn out to be like her, a woman who beats her children and leaves? Another big clue is given when Sidda says, Me not lovin' mama was never the problem. (see- she loves her mom, despite many reviewers who may feel that this love or forgiveness is unfounded) Maggie Smith replies Her not loving you was never the problem either. That is the crux right there- now comes convincing Sidda of this truth. It's not forgiving her mother, but finally being able to stop blaming herself for the sudden change in her mother. The revelation, too subtle for many, is that Sidda didn't cause the change and Sidda herself won't suddenly become a monster when she is 'tied down' with marriage and children either.I fault the movie for not fully explaining how the med's that Vivi took were later found to cause psychotic episodes, a fact which no one knew at the time. And for not stressing this link, and the shame that Vivi felt at having been involuntarily committed (a line in the dialog that could have easily been missed by many viewers) that was so deep that she would let her children think instead that she had abandoned them. Too much stress was layed on the emotional scenes- and not enough on some of the most important details.Also, this movie made me cry constantly. I felt so drained at the end of this movie. I'd save this movie for a day when you don't have to get anything done, a day when you feel like you 'just need to cry' but don't know the reason. This movie will give you a reason.It seems to me that the major flaws of this movie may have come in a somewhat sloppy adaptation and then later in post production and by assuming that the audience knows more than they do. And finally, by letting some of the most revealing lines skim by without much notice.A good movie- for a really good cry. "},{"Title":"This Film is Burstyn with Problems","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I woefully admit that this is a chick flick, replete with watered-down sentiment. The cinematography is mediocre at best. The storyline is all right. I never did get really involved with the characters. To be perfectly honest, I didn't care who loved whom or who did what or when. I would have dwelt more on the beginnings with the Ya-Yas as young girls. It was cute and could have shown more of their sisterhood and what it meant. Instead, there is an incessant desire to flash back and forth, there and there, yatita-yatita, ya-ya ya ya ya. But my main beef with the film is that Ellen Burstyn and Ashley Judd look about as much alike as Clark Kent and Superman (Oh, my God, did I just make a blonde assertion?) But still... Okay, the guy who played young James Garner could have reasonably passed had we not know what Jimbo looked like when he was young. But Ashley and Ellen? What were they thinking? Either they should have used another actress who looked more like Ellen Burstyn, or else aged Ashley and let her carry the entire role, of which she has proved herself quite capable. This is just another example of Hollywood selling itself out for name recognition and ya-ya know I'm right. The only other film like this that comes to mind is Contact, where the young Miss Foster was obviously Miss Cast as well. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I actually dreaded seeing this one. It took me a while to actually sit down and watch, but after I watched it, it became one of my favorite movies of all time. I love the way it is so realistic. And the cast was picked perfectly. And to regards to what SOMEONE had said in a previous review Kathy Bates was not here to save this one. I don't think Kathy Bates good have done a better job playing any of the characters in this film. It was brilliant. I definitely would not have made any changes. Sandra Bullok was perfect for the part she played. And she was followed out by a great set of various personalities. It was a wonderful movie, I give it a 15 out of 10. "},{"Title":"God help me, I actually like this movie","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I first saw the trailers for Divine Secrets (forgive me if I choose not to use the full title), the two words that came to my mind was chick flick and, like most guys, avoided it like the plague. I finally got to see it at a friend's house, because she offered, and I was willing to give most movies a chance. In the end I found myself pleasantly surprised.For those who may not know, Divine Secrets centers around the relationship between Siddalee Walker (Sandra Bullock) and her mother Vivi (Ellen Burstyn). Sidda is a famous writer/playwright who makes some disparaging comments about Vivi in a magazine interview. Vivi takes extreme offense to Sidda's comments and a small war between the two ensue. It's then up to the Ya-yas (Vivi's long-time friends) to show Sidda the other side of her mother and repair the mother-daughter bond before it's too late.The Mother-Daughter relationship is a little Joy Luck Club and the southern dysfunctional family is straight out of Prince of Tides but Divine Secrets is nowhere near as serious as the previous two titles. This isn't to say that Divine Secrets isn't without its serious moments. Slight warning to those whose families come on the dysfunctional side there are parts in this movie that will make you slightly uncomfortable if not cringe. But, as with good storytelling, the light and dark moments balance each other out.Overall, on my movie hierarchy scale, Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood is good enough for a Rental, or purchase on the cheap-o rack at Hasting's. Good Acting+Good Storytelling = good movie. "},{"Title":"Well acted but lacking.","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I haven't had a chance to read the book yet, but through the whole movie makes you feel that huge chunks of story are missing. Unfortunately the editing of the story, means no sympathy for the characters. The revealing moments are not strong enough to give you an idea what the characters went through as children resulting in almost all characters looking selfish and suffering from a poor me attitude. Mothers will resent the characters, the story giving the idea that child abuse should be forgiven as long as you have an excuse. If you really want to see the movie I'd suggest reading the book first. My sister says it makes all the difference. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. It is a stirring portrayal of drug/alcohol addiction and how it affects the family of the user. Sandra BullockEllen Burstyn, Fionnula Flanagan,James Garner Cherry Jones Ashley Judd Shirley Knight Angus MacFadyen Maggie Smith and the rest of the cast are terrific. I had a great time watching this movie. I laughed and cried. Ellen Burstyn is a consummate actress and here portrayal was stirring. It was great to see a movie about southern women in which they were portrayed as strong women. James Garner takes his usual spot as the supportive strong man but does with charm. Maggie Smith is wonderful as well. A must see film!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC FILM!!!","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I wasn't expecting it to love it as much as I did, but it was fantastic.  Not just a girl's film either.  Beautifully done, makes you laugh and cry, everyone was fabulous.  Some of the greatest life lessons and some damn good lines are in this film, not to mention acting.  This movie moved me, and I went right out and bought it.  Personally, anyone who doesn't like it, is immature to me.  Because women, together, in a film, it's incredible.  These women are incredible.  The actresses and their characters.  Beautifully done. "},{"Title":"A new Steel Magnolias","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay folks, short and sweet this is one of the most enjoyable movies I've seen in a while, and I rank it right up there with Steel Magnolias. The interaction between the ... senior cast members is flawless. Burstyn, Flanagan, Knight and Smith are perfect in their roles. Bullock's is on par with her Birdee Pruitt in Hope Floats (1998) and Sally Owens in Practical Magic (also 1998) -- both of which I thoroughly enjoyed. I'm a sucker for Jim Garner, so more of him would have been great, but not really in keeping with the female emphasis of the script. All in all I can't hesitate to recommend this one.  "},{"Title":"Best Movie of All Time","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was 2002's best summer movie by far! If you liked Fried Green Tomatoes or Steel Magnolias, then The Divine Secrets of the Ya-ya Sisterhood is the movie for you! I cried, laughed...identified with the characters. Great acting and even better story! It's on my list of top movies of all time. "}{"Title":"Really good, great acting, interesting and realistic","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A chick flick, but a fine chick flick.  I did not find it confusing, but there are many flashbacks so it's a bit tricky.  I normally don't like Ashley Judd or Sandra Bullock but enjoyed both of them in this film.  It seemed very realistic and gave us a lot to think about. "},{"Title":"this man found this movie to be good","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this was a very good movie not just some chick flick it had good acting i always like james garnner and ashley judd. my wife had been wanting to see this but did'nt think i would care for it i told her to get it and we would watch it i am glad we did this movie was funny and sad at times. stories of family and freinds always touches my heart. i am not ashamed to say my wife was'nt crying alone the tears were rolling down my cheecks it's just so touching. this movie this'nt just for women it for anyone who enjoys a good movie "},{"Title":"Ya-Ya not so bad","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've read the negative comments re Ya-Ya and I honestly don't know what the big fuss is.  I enjoyed the film.  I know there have likely been less cliched films about the south and mother-daughter relationships but the cast really carried the film.  They all did a wonderful job. Perhaps its because, as a woman who has faced depression and marital issues myself, I found something in the film I could relate to.  The feelings were honest and true. So, don't write the film off.  It wasn't a waste of two hours.  In fact, it helped me come to grips with my own feelings. "},{"Title":"chick-flick of the century","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you liked Fried green tomatoes, color purple and how to make an american quilt your gonna love the divien secrets of the ya-ya sisterhood, I cryed I laughed and I've watched it over and over again - simply the perfect movie for a girl night or even better when stuck in bed with the flu....  I so wish they made more movies like this!!! "},{"Title":"Completely emotional","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A movie that recently was presented in Colombia,my country and deals with the generation gap and the everlasting troubles raising between children and parents, gives us a soul lifting experience for those of us who do not like to categorize movies ( like those who would say this is a chick flick or tear jerker) ,I loved it! Although there were some parts where I considered there was not intensity in the characters,anyway the main message is thereAfter  many years of fighting  and misunderstandings  between us and those who we love,there is always a way  of making peace forget and forgive...  "},{"Title":"Alcoholism Shatters Lives","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a POWERFUL film. I was really amazed. The story, the script, and the acting excelled, and I'm surprised that the IMDb voters only gave it a 6. I give it a TEN. This movie reached me on two levels. On the surface, yes, it was a great comedy with some really great lines and gimmicks. Vivian and her three close friends grow up in Louisiana and have many misadventures. They do crazy things like drive around in their underwear but they are always there for each other.But on a deeper level it shows that tragic patterns of behavior can ruin several generations of a family. Vivi's alcoholism took a heavy toll on her family. We only get a glimpse of what husband Shep goes through, but he suffers in silence, and stays married to her to save the children. We only see daughter Siddallee, and not her other siblings. I'm not a psychologist, but I can imagine the analysis of that highly dysfunctional family.The conflict of the story is Sidallee's attempts to come to terms with her life and decide whether or not to get married an have children. I think it's amazing that she turned out as well as she did, given Vivi's drunken incidents. She has to resolve the issue of her mother before she can move on. Unfortunately, I think the publicity and previews didn't do justice to this film, stressing sex and silliness rather than the substance. The movie really does a good job most of the time, although parts of movie take the four friends's drinking too lightly.Yes, the old slogan is true -- Alcoholism shatters lives. I think this film does a great job of showing the shattering and showing the hope of repairing your life and your relationship with your alcoholic family member.Definitely a TEN!!! "},{"Title":"Ya-dda Ya-dda Ya-dda!","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ms. Callie Khouri is a fine writer. I met her once. She's a fine lady, but she's a  better writer and she deserves something other than this film to start her directing career. The books in which this film is based are better than what Mark Andrus has adapted for the screen. At least in them, there is a certain charm of the time it evokes. Also, it was fun time in the bayous of that Louisiana of the past.This film is a jumble of styles. At the beginning it appears as though we're in WWII, which would make the Sandra Bullock character about 65 or so. That would make the four original friends about 90? At least, that was my perception in looking at the costumes of the period since nothing is made clear.As far as how the book translates on screen it is  silly. What was the conflict between the parents? It is very stupid, to put it mildly, but then again, all those southern belles, as we have seen them in films, are rather vapid and flighty.The circle of friends Ellen Burstyn, Maggie Smith, Fionulla Flannagan and Shirley Knight are fine, as is Ashley Judd as the young Viv, who obviously loved her Bourbon, or whatever she drank. James Garner doesn't have anything to do.Sorry Ms. Khouri, better luck next time, or try directing your own material.  "},{"Title":"Sum is less than the parts","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are basically two intertwined stories in the is movie. Sandra Bullock coming to terms with her mothers nuttiness and the younger version of her month.The Sandra Bullock story is exactly what you would expect in one of her movies. Nothing really demanding other than she has to look pretty, you have to like her, and you can laugh on occasion. You watch one of her movies, that is what you get.The other story, the one about her mother and her younger years is much more interesting. The younger version of her mother, played by Ashley Judd, is a full bore child abusing, drinking, drug abusing monster. That part of the story is not unlike Mommy Dearest. Ashley Judd gives a very powerful and disturbing portrayal.This is where the whole movie falls apart. It really is too much to ask to hate someone in one scene then have sympathy for her in the next. The movie can't seem to decide which it want to do. It tries to find profundity in all this and doesn't.The second really bad aspect is this. What if Sandra Bullock father was the child beating, drug abusing monster. Do you think that the point of the move is to get past it and accept him for who he is? I personally reject the notion that abusive mothers are worthy of compassion.For these reasons the movie falls flat. "},{"Title":"A very impressed male viewer","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a film! Not a chick flick but a movie all should see. Too often, films are made from the male point of view. How many females were in Saving Private Ryan? In all kinds of films? For a long time there has been a dearth of female parts in most films. Let's see more of the girls! As a 74 yr. old male with three grown daughters I'm a firm believer that we males are jerks compared to the average female. I thoroughly enjoyed this film and can only give the highest marks to the whole cast and the director. Don't try to analyze the film-- just enjoy it. It's pace is continuous without a pause or draggy moment and it is a joy to see and to go home and muse about. I'm a retired MD and find the older I get the more I appreciate excellence and this film is excellent throughout. I will see it again. "},{"Title":"Let' see...","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sex, child abuse, screaming, swearing, drug addiction, alcoholism, vicious fights, madness...yep...it's just a typical girls coming of age story in the South!Basically it's about a bunch of girls who form a sisterhood when they're young and follows them over the years.  It involves Sandra Bullock who hates her mother (Ellen Burstyn) and how the other sisters help them get together.It's exceptionally well-acted, well cast and directed...but too short.  The men are given VERY short shrift and most of the stories seem underdeveloped.  There were a lot more characters and situations that needed to be fleshed out more fully.  Still, it's engrossing, funny, sad and never dull.Worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Love and lifetime friendship on Planet Earth","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bill's Review  I figured, `Okay.  I'll see Ya Ya today.  And then she'll see Sum of all Fears with me tomorrow.  So off to the Divine Secrets we went.  Exceeded my expectations, it did . . . ` (Bill as Yoda)The movie could have as easily been titled `Love and lifetime friendship on Planet Earth'.  It's about a relationship between a mother and her daughter on the surface.  At its core, it's about lifelong friendship, the rights and responsibilities in good times and bad. . . kind'a like a marriage.  The best line references how many dollars on therapy one could save with truthful friends.  The truth hurts . . . In the end - it makes us stronger.The film is chock full of subtleties.  Like how Vivi shares her most intimate secrets with Conner, whom she never met before vs. shielding her daughter from the backdrop of her life over the years.Huge spiritual side as well to the story.  . . . You have to see it to understand this part.A.P.B. to the Guys If you're looking for a date, find a Ya Ya theater and have a field day.  Chick city  All ages.  98% women!  Go get'em.We never did see Sum of All Fears.  WCSCarolyn's ReviewLeft with a tear in my eye and a song in my heart, thank goodness I bought the sound track, which is as good as the movie.  Didn't start to write this till I called my daughters and said Ya-Ya.  Hope they see it with a girl friend real soon.  Having read the book twice it was at first a little disappointing that the movie didn't start out or follow the book as closely as I had hoped... but, again, think it was a smart move that it didn't.  It would have been too difficult for people to follow the story if they tried to replicate the book.  Everyone was well cast and I hope you have friends like that in your life...with you in the good, bad and even the ugly parts of all of our lives.  A sigh here and off I go for a glass on wine on the back porch.   CFS  "},{"Title":"As good as it gets","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was one of maybe a half-dozen men in the theater on the debut day of this film. It may be a chick flick but it was terrific. It's not a date film, so I suppose the audience will be what it was on opening day groups of women, of all ages and all sizes. No harm. I took my wife and 16-year-old daughter, knowing in advance we were in for a real treat. If Ashley Judd doesn't win an Oscar for this one, I will be very surprised. And I am no Ashley Judd fan. Some amazing performances throughout. Since I haven't read the book, I don't know how good an adaptation it was. But it was a hell of a heartfelt movie. Lots of fun, and a real four-hankie job, as we film reviewers used to say way back when. Watch for an astounding scene as Judd stares at herself in a mirror for what seems to be an eternity but is probably about 30 seconds. It really works! For those who dug FRIED GREEN TOMATOES and DRIVING MISS DAISY, this one's definitely for you. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Movie for Mothers and Daughters","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood goes deep into the relationships between mother and daughter and the misunderstandings. Based on Rebecca Wells book the story follows Siddalee (Sandra Bullock), a play writer/director who's interview with the New York Times misleads her mother, Vivi, (Ellen Burstyn) to think she's an ungreatful child. To fix the fight Vivi's best friends the Ya-Ya's (including Maggie Smith) kidnap Siddalee to show her their scrapbook. Along the way Siddalee finds out funny, sad, and dark secrets about her mother that make her under stand events in the past. The movie send a powerful message to both mother and daughter. I give it a Perfect 10. "},{"Title":"I like it and will share it with my Mom and sisters.","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I didn't consider this movie a chick flick. I think that it is for everyone who has mental illness in the family, or at least a dysfunctional family. It was more about all of the generations being honest and forthcoming. But we know that won't always (if ever) happen and I was encouraged that there could be a happy ending, even with the problems that can come from generations before. I'm glad I saw it and I plan to watch it again with my Mom and my sisters. It made me feel like I had it good but helped me recognize and work on the problems that we did (do) have. I know that there are happy endings even with the relatives I have who have had severe problems. God is good. M "},{"Title":"May Not Appeal To Some, But Still Highly Enjoyable","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I plead guilty that I did not read the book, but I received the DVD from a loyal IMDb.com reader who's a loyal fan of fine and she asked me to review. Sherequested to me to watch The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhoodand to give a review about it because she really enjoyed this movie tremendously. I never had the chance to see it in the theaters because; my friends thought it just another chick flick that I would not understand. I came into watching this movie with an open mind and hoped that my friend was no putting me on. Well it turns out that this movie is anything but a chick flick, but a movie which has a predominately female cast and in spite of the rather goofy, bizarre title, it reflects on real issues that anyone can relate to including the pain and heartbreak of a young woman (Sandra Bullock) and her estranged relationship with her mother (Ellen Burstyn). There are a lot of good thing going for The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood. For one thing the musical score matches nicely to the atmosphere that's created in the movie. Sandra Bullock was excellent in her role as a successful playwright, Sidda Lee who wrote a play inspired by her painful childhood of abuse and neglect. Ashley Judd's performance was also quite effective in the flashbacks of when young Vivi Abbott as we try to understand the troubled life she has lived in hope that Sidda and her mother Vivi could finally put their hostilities to rest. The flashbacks displayed here are really effective in terms of storytelling as we can piece together the wedge that has kept Sidda and Vivi apart for many years. The flashbacks feel as though Vivi is watching herself as a young lady and the progression in life as she ages through the years and Judd pulls it off quite brilliantly. People who think these characters are superficial and caricatured must be insane. There are people out there like the characters depicted and director Callie Khouri succeeds in making it stay real. The Ya-Ya's all had different character traits and that's good because everyone's different and they also succeed in playing off each other's lines splendidly and never betrayed each other as they stayed friends over the years. A mother/daughter relationship is special and can be complex at the same time. It's good to watch this movie with your mothers as it boosts the pleasure of watching this movie. The plot emphasizes on just how little we know our mother's in terms of their past and psyche and all the hidden secrets that comes along with it. Through every generation, no one can fully understand one from another as hostility materializes within each group. Through life-long friendships, they are able to reveal secrets and repair damages through time. It's quite inspiring to have friends like this.Now unlike a lot of male characters in a predominately female cast, the male characters in this movie are also quite sympathetic and seem to understand the female's needs and wants. James Garner's Shep Walker was nicely casted as Vivi's husband and his love for her in flashbacks and the present are quite obvious. Even through the good times and the rough patches, a man's undying love for his wife also someone who deserves our praise. Sidda also has a man in her life like that named Connor (Angus MacFayden) and was willing to be with the sisterhood and to help bury the wedge between the mother and daughter. It's a rare trait that a lot of men don't possess, thus Connor is a character one does not see every day. It's a life fact that men and women are different from each other, which is not entirely bad. This movie gladly cherishes those traits and looks upon the difficulties the women face and the many good traits as well. This is a very remarkable film that stands in a class of its own and requires a bit of learning from it as well. Not a perfect film, but stays real and never once does it feel fake. "},{"Title":"Sisters' Secrets","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had postponed watching 'Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood' because I thought it would be just another melodramatic glossy film like 'Steel Magnolias'. I finally got myself to see it last night. After all how bad could a movie, with a cast that includes Ellen Burstyn, Sandra Bullock, Maggie Smith, Fionnula Flanagan, James Garner and Shirley Knight, be? Now I can say that 'Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood' did not disappoint.First of all, this is a performance oriented film. It is the acting by every single actor that makes this film stand above others. The movie has some great one-liners that are wonderfully delivered by the actors. Ellen Burstyn, Ashley Judd, Maggie Smith, Sandra Bullock, Fionnula Flanagan, Shirley Knight, Angus MacFadyen and James Garner are superb. Their line delivery and knack for comedy and/or subtle intensity is excellent.I found the timeline to be a bit inconsistent. The art direction in the 30s setting is brilliant. Detail is given to the costumes, makeup, gestures and language of the actors. However, the present day, which is supposed to be set in the 70s doesn't give that feel at all. I also would have liked to see more backstory on Teensy, Caro and Necie. After all, the story is about their sisterhood.Even though flawed, it's an interesting study on relationships. The balance of comedy and intensity is well done and it avoids being the 'tearjerker melodrama' that 'Steel Magnolias' is. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie has been underrated. It is fantastic. Sidda is a character like many daughters that have suffered from their parent's decisions. Vivienne is a flawed mother like many mother's. This movie is real, and will touch you straight to the heart on multiple levels. It is intelligent and soft. I did not realize all of the multitudes of layers in this story until I recently watched it. The acting is very good. This tale mimicks many families that have suffered problems, and it is very beautiful. I truly enjoyed it. It is underrated and very beautiful with the tales of friendship as well as family dysfunction. I know so many mother's and daughter's that have experienced this type of pain, and some forgive and some don't. This is a story of true mother and daughter relationships, and the wounds we carry on to other generations beneath us. I loved it! "},{"Title":"A Warm Mint-Julep of a Flick","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Movies that feature women-only themes are few indeed and at any given time we can count their existence on one finger. Hollywood loves reminding us that it's a man's world, baby and I would hazard a guess that 95% of current box office offerings are male-centered (That is, male = hero, victim, anti-hero; with a female = smart talking' and lookin' and barely visible unless required to provide booty, tears, or encouragement to - you guessed it, the male!).So when a movie with a female-centered cast and theme (trivialized by the term chick flick) is served to us, I watch with a wary eye and a hopeful heart. Why? Because most chick flicks are written, directed, and produced by men...maybe that's why there are so few of them! To the credit of The Divine Secrets of The Ya-Ya Sisterhood, it didn't disappoint my heart or my head.The Ya-Ya Sisterhood takes the universal theme of mother-daughter conflict and serves it up as refreshingly as a mint julep on a scorching day. Taking place in Louisiana, this movie leads us through a merry romp of friendship and fierce loyalties, stopping along the way to tug at our heart strings and drag out the tissues (don't all good chick flicks?).The plot centers around a young director (Sandra Bullock) who is estranged from her Old School Southern Belle mother (Ellen Burstyn) and nervous about her upcoming nuptials. Through the divine intervention of the Ya-Ya's - a three woman tag-team of family friends - (played by Maggie Smith, Shirley Knight, and Fionnula Flanagan) the daughter is able to heal old familial wounds and welcome her new role as daughter, wife (and future mother).Yet, layered within this beautiful film is three levels of female experience, told through the life of Maiden-Mother-Salty Sage women Burstyn and Ashley Judd. (I'd like to see Judd get a nod at the next award show for this multi-faceted role.) Add to that a funny and tender juxtaposition of the men in their lives (James Garner and Angus MacFadyen) and everyone is sure to get their Ya-Ya's out! Unforgettable in every way! "},{"Title":"A movie based in reality - not in a dream world","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is NOT for people who prefer total fantasy. Life is not always simple such as in the form of fairy tales.This is a movie that shows the reality of the human family by showing the weaknesses that exist and are more prevalent than many wish to believe. Mental illness is difficult on all involved and it's threads can warp or shape our lives. There is no absolute black & white in life. There will always be sadness and happiness and sometimes more of one than the other. No life is perfect and difficulties are what builds our character & strength. And this movie shows that it is possible to overcome our past with understanding and compassion.Kudos to all involved in this excellent movie. "},{"Title":"A great cast enlivens the southern tale of four friends and a secret","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ellyn Burstyn, Finnoula Flanagan, Shirley Knight and Maggie Smith hold The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood, a girlhood pact made in childhood, in this 2002 film also starring Sandra Bullock, Ashley Judd and James Garner. Bullock plays Sidda, a successful writer and the daughter of the outrageous Vivi. Both mother and daughter are in crisis after Sidda's profile appears in Time Magazine, and the profile's author has emphasized Sidda's problems with her mother. Mother and daughter start sending hate notes, photos with their faces cut out, invitations with no address or date, etc. to one another as well as hanging up the phone upon hearing the other's voice. The other three ya-yas visit Sidda, slip her a date-rape drug and bring her to Louisiana, where they all live, so they can show her their Ya-ya secrets book and she can learn some things about her mother that she never knew.The somewhat contrived plot is saved by the wonderful acting of the entire cast. Burstyn has long been one of my favorite actresses, and she creates a powerful portrait of the alcoholic temperamental diva Vivi. She's backed up beautifully by another of my favorite actresses, Maggie Smith as well as Flanagan and Knight. Ashley Judd plays the young Vivi. She does an excellent job showing Vivi's progression from a fun-loving young woman rejected by her mother (Cherry Jones) but adored by her father to an unhappy, drunken and overwhelmed one with a husband she doesn't love and too many children. Bullock's angry Sidda is effective, and her scenes with Burstyn are very poignant. James Garner as Bullock's long- suffering but loving father gives a wonderful performance, showing a caring but resigned man who has somehow managed to live with this woman for years.This isn't Fried Green Tomatoes. It's a portrait of an abusive childhood, mental illness, misinformation about medications - and survival. Unfortunately some of the people reviewing this film don't have a clear understanding of mental illness and what the wrong medication can do to someone. The story is tempered with humor and vibrant characterizations and the old adage, we don't pick our parents; if we can make our peace with their lives and with them, it makes life a little easier. "}{"Title":"A Chick Flick - but so much more!","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One writer called this A chick flick for chicks of all ages. This is probably a fair description, though I hate the term chick flick and find that a majority of the movies that touch me most deeply probably fall under that category. Beyond this, however, I believe this is a wonderful movie for anyone. including males who are not afraid of their feminine side, their sensitive side. I have always been a big fan of James Garner, and have recently become a huge Sandra Bullock fan (which is why I bought this DVD in the first place). But while I was very pleased with their usually excellent performances, the entire cast was truly outstanding. And while the focus of the film was on female friendships and mother-daughter relationships, it also speaks of human relationships in general, in all their joy and pain and complexity, and of the power of love - not to eliminate the problems or overlook them - but to transcend them. A great movie - give it a try! "},{"Title":"people are the same where ever you go","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hello everybody,I saw the film yesterday, it's a moving story anyway.I live in in Central Europe and I was wondering why Vivi, who was extremely well-off (large detached house with many rooms, 2 bathrooms, she had an own car and didn't have to work as a wife & mother), was not able to appreciate, to treasure all (including people) she had? Where I live, average people live in small apartments (mortgage loan) with 2 or 3 rooms in a tenement house, mothers have to work full time (or overtime...) even if they'd rather stay st home with the children, a lot of families don't even have a car cause they can't afford it. But rich people here aren't that rich like Vivi's family and her social environment!Elderly women can't afford hairdresser, cosmetics, beautiful clothes, etc. regularly either. And alcoholics (drug abusers) are usually underclass here 'cause drinking costs a lot of money, too. P So they lose their jobs, apartments, cars, health and family members (divorce, isolation) and have a high risk to be homeless.By the way, Vivi didn't have to fight for anything! To make a little effort... That was one of her problem, one of the reasons, I think!Even love came easily to her. (But it flew away...) Though I know - or I suppose - her unhappiness came from the lack of real love (in a sexual meaning) to her husband. She only liked him but not loved. Big difference! That's why she couldn't find the way tho their children's hearts either they were not the fruits of a relationship based on true love, their faces were no mirrors of the beloved man. So I think that you can be any rich or any poor, you might live in a developed country or in the second (third) world, doesn't really matter. Only love, honesty and harmony in the family counts.Other conclusion Don't go for the second best! Don't lie love to any man - and to yourself! "},{"Title":"An overlooked GEM.","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a nicely done story of how a young woman comes to learn about some of the difficult circumstances behind some of her worst childhood memories, and thus stops being a victim to them. I don't want to address specifics lest I ruin it for you. The cast is nothing short of awesome, the story is very good - I highly recommend this one. Fionnula Flanagan particularly sparkled, as did Maggie Smith.The trailer for this movie was VERY poorly done, so I avoided it for years. However, I got roped into watching it one night & I was shocked that I loved it. The character development was, for the most part, very well done. The subject matter was close to what one might see in their real life as opposed to over-glamorized dramatizations of what goes on in real life - I think this fact may be why this movie was not so well received. You will hear about the events being retold, but your heart strings will not be gratuitously pulled, and the characters do not wallow in grief & drama. You'll have to think for yourself, pay attention, & make up your own mind about things as they play out, but it's worth it. "},{"Title":"love it. one of my favorites","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" one of my 3 all time favorites. i loved it all. the cast was perfect. i've watched it about 73 times so far. love to see an uncut version. the lines were great and i haven't been able to pick out a favorite character, line, nor scene. it was all good. Angus was perfect for his role. i had seen him in a few other flicks, but this really opened my eyes to his abilities. James G. is always good. All the women played magnificent parts. I'd like to know some of the background on how they prepared for the different stages of their characters to be able to blend the different times. that should be interesting. i watch it about 2 times a week - even 4 years later. "},{"Title":"very good and well acted","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i don't think anyone should see this movie without first reading the book....the book is excellent and the movie does it justice but this movie is definitely not for people only into action flicks or movies that are mindless drivel..........it will make you laugh but you will have to think and be aware of all the characters...its a good movie but definitely not for guys into manly movies...Ashley Judd is amazing and of course Sandra bullock is her usual charming self..but my favorite actor in the whole thing is Fionnula Flanagan playing teensie...she just nails the character!.................. .......... .......... ............. ............................ .................... ............. ....... .................... ........ .............. .................... ............................ "},{"Title":"The Best Movie I've Ever Seen!!","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is my all time favorite. It'll make you laugh a lot and cry just as much. Beautifully done. Ashley Judd is stupendous. Ellen Burstyn and the whole cast just rocks!! A wonderful movie about a woman's rocky relationship with her mother who has kept her life secret until The Ya-Ya's step in to make everything right again. The Ya-Ya's, friends of Vivi, have only good intentions despite what Vivi thinks and they overrule her and take matters into their own hands. They make the movie. If you haven't seen this movie, you're missing something that you could treasure the rest of your life. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have both watched the movie and read the book Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood, and I have to say that although they are not the same they are both good. Over all I have to say I enjoyed the movie more, I think it was a much better movie than the book was a book. And I love Sandra Bullock, Angus Macfadyen and Maggie Smith. I think everyone should see this movie if they have the chance, I don't know anyone who has seen this movie and not liked it. I suggest that anyone who has watched and enjoyed the movie read the book for more of the story and the background, especially for more about Vivi's childhood. "},{"Title":"Fun and Touching Chick Flick","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Despite the mediocre reviews, I went to see Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood to see what visuals go with T. Bone Burnett's latest rootsy soundtrack and to support a woman director, Callie Khouri, as she had such a tough time getting a green light. I guess because I had low expectations, I really enjoyed this estrogen-fest. The Old Broads are relaxed and just having fun, Sandra Bullock is cute, and Ashley Judd gets to sparkle and emote. Ellen Burstyn, in particular, gets to be much livelier than in the TV series That's Life, and there are similar body language flashes by both where you can think Judd is the younger Burstyn.I could very much relate to the mother/daughter issues from both sides of the parental divide, so, yeah, I teared up several times. It reminded me a lot of How To Make An American Quilt. I haven't read the books this is based on (one of them has been sitting on my book shelf) so I don't know if they explain some holes in the plot -- like where are Bullock's siblings? Wasn't she close to her mom's friends' kids like siblings, so where are they? And why are the men they attract just so darn nice and cuddly? Burnett's musical choices, some new, some covers, some old, some archival, are charming, aided by the coincidental Louisiana setting; particularly touching is use of Richard and Linda Thompson's Dimming of the Day.(originally written 6/6/2002) "},{"Title":"Excellent girl-power comedy about the power of friendship","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even though I haven't read the books that it's based on, if you ask me, DIVINE SECRETS OF THE YA-YA SISTERHOOD is an excellent girl-power comedy. Whenever a flashback of Vivi as a young woman (Ashley Judd) was shown, I got a little scared at some moments. If you want to know why, you'll have to see the movie to see for yourself. When Siddalee (Sandra Bullock) pounded the phone after hanging up on Vivi (Ellen Burstyn), I felt really good inside. It's hard to explain why. All in all, this is an excellent girl comedy about the power of friendship for anyone who enjoyed LEGALLY BLONDE. Also, the soundtrack is really good, too. Now, in conclusion, if you like Sandra Bullock films or enjoyed Rebecca Wells' title novel, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a good time and lots of laughs, so see this movie today. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Divine secrets of the Ya-Ya sisterhood, when I heard it at first I just loved the title. And I think Sandra Bullock is one of the best actresses at this time, so I decided to watch the movie. And it was no waste of time at all. The story was a bit average, a fight between mother and daughter, but the solution gives a new prospective. Three old ladies trying to solve the problem between their best friend and her daughter, by telling the daughter the whole history of what happened. And well I won't tell the end but I think you can guess. And still, it is a good movie and I could really recommend it if you like this kind of stories. "}{"Title":"had Sandy in it. that's all I need to know","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have never been too keen on movies that use flashbacks. It's so disruptive. James Garner plays a roll that would require a saint to hang in there. He sure was good though. Now for Ellen Burstyn. I liked her acting all the way. At the end all I wanted to do was hug her. She even looked, well beautiful the last quarter of the movie. This is the first movie I can recall seeing her in. I really like her a lot. The problem with this movie is you know the end ten minutes into it You know ma ma and daughter will reconcile sooner or later. The other three ya-ya members also were very good actresses. Now why I stayed with it. Four reasons! 1 Sandy 2 Sandy. 3 Sandy 4 Sandy. What can I say that hasn't been said about her. She is the greatest. The scene with Ellen and Sandy reconciling really touched me deeply. The music in that scene really was haunting. I think a tear or two may have fallen. The best line is when Vivie says now I have strangers coming up to me telling me I'm ruining there lives. I laughed till it hurt. "},{"Title":"YA -YA  Crazy","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Playwright SiddaLee Walker (Bullock) is a successful young director on Broadway whose always had a difficult relationship with her mother Viviane (Burstyn) after an article in time magazine depicts her mother as an abusive and alcoholic woman Vivi cuts her out of her life. Along comes her friends Teensy (Flanagan), ,Necie (Knight)and Caro (Smith) as children they formed a group called the Ya- Ya Sisterhood they've been there for each other through many tough times. They take Sidda back to her hometown of Louisiana and hold her hostage, while there she gets a look at a book of memories from the Ya- Yas history containing old photographs. During the next few days Sidda listens to countless stories about Vivi's past as a young woman (Judd) whose heart was broken when her sweetheart Jack Whitman (Settle) was killed during the second world war, her marriage to Shep Walker (Smith) then to her days of drinking then finally her breakdown. Divine Secrets Of The Ya- Ya Sisterhood gives viewers a look at the relationship between a mother and daughter who learn it's never too late to forgive each other. Ellen Burstyn & Ashley Judd give incredible performances as the older and younger Vivi with such grace ********/10 Stars "},{"Title":"I Call this one Now and Then of the geriatric kind!","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was definitely a howl when I first laid eyes on it. Even though it was filmed where I'm at, the movie lives up to its name. Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood is like the portal to the past and all that has happen to these adventurous young ladies. Everyone have made pacts in the past, and why not relive it now, when you got the energy to do so. These girls were open-minded, and I liked that. I liked the way they fixed that redneck cousin of theirs who used the N word to the maid. I don't blame the Ya-Yas ONE BIT! Although they made their own trouble when the night got warm and they needed a breeze. Everyone except Vivi(Ashley Judd) got naked that night, it's Louisiana, why should indecent exposure be a crime? Well, as to say, this movie was super, an all-star cast, great plot, superb storyline, and by chance lots of surprises and fun for nostalgics. Now and Then is for young adults who lived in the 70's. Ya-Ya is full of HaHa and all women of all ages, except young girls who could handle this kind of fun. YA-YA! HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!!!!!!!!!!!!! RATING 4 OUT OF 5 STARS. "},{"Title":"My views on how the Divine Secrets of the Ya - Ya Sisters was depicted!","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have read all the negative feed back that this film has received, and I, however do not agree with it. Yes I agree, that some of the parts of the film are left unexplained and quite vague, but I thought that the over all effect of the film was shocking and dramatic.I liked the way in which, the relationship between Vivi and Sidda was constantly changing and the images the viewers receive of Sidda's childhood are an amazing twist if not in the least disturbing! Well, that is all I can be bothered to write, but I would give this film 9 out of 10.Ciao x  "},{"Title":"Good, not great.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood was, well, not as bad as I thought, actually. At first I thought it was going to be very corny, with all the flowers on the cover of the movie. But it wasn't really ALL that bad. It's about a woman named Sidda (Sandra Bullock) who hates her mother Vivi (Ellen Burstyn). No that's not all. So Vivi's best buds, Caro, Teensy, and Necie (Smith, Flannagan,and Knight),aka The Ya-Yas, give Sidda a scrapbook filled with her mother's pictures. They bring back some warm AND painful memories, because her mother was also alocholic. The memories turn into flashbacks to when Sidda was a girl, where the young Vivi is played by Ashley Judd. That about sums up the movie. It was good, not great though, with a few mistakes. One, it was way too short. And the other? It was played by the wrong actors. Only Judd (actually!) and Smith seemed to be able to actually handle their roles.Once again, good, not great.  "},{"Title":"Big Kiss-MWAHH!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  That's my favorite line from this movie, and it's spoken by Maggie Smith's character, Caro, to Vivi over the phone.  It's now how my roommate and I tell each other good-bye. That aside, I really liked this movie.  I adored the book, which I read after the movie, and I wish the movie had been a little more faithful to the book, but it's still really good in its own right.  The interaction between the Ya-Yas is great, especially the car chase.  The book is one of the most sensual books I've ever read, with a lot of attention paid to the smells and touches of the scenes, and I think the movie communicates this in its own way.  It's also just a good time, the type of movie you can watch over and over, which I certainly do. "},{"Title":"Critics have been unusually cruel to this nice, little movie.","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is NOT a great movie. It isn't even a very good movie. However it contains some good performances by some fine actors and tells a nice little story of a strained mother-daughter relationship. Not unlike dozens of other such movies, but I especially enjoyed Ashley Judd as the 30-ish mom having difficulty coping with motherhood and her 4 children. Its median IMDb rating of 7 is about right. This movie clearly does NOT deserve the large number of 1 votes it has received.The beginning of the movie with the 4 young Ya-Ya girls is set in rural, swampy Louisiana, and we hear Cajun music, but then we hear the girls talk.  The accent is ALL WRONG, I know, because I grew up in that part of Louisiana. That was a disappointment to me, because you would think they would spend the time to get it right. They used a generic Southern accent, which may work for Mississippi, Alabama, or Georgia, but not for the Cajun swamplands of Louisiana. Of course, the movie was actually filmed in North Carolina.Major SPOILERS follow, fr my recollection. Mature Sidda (Sandra Bullock, in a good performance) is an author, tells in interview that if she hadn't had a difficult childhood then she would have nothing to write about. Her mom reads this (Ellen Burstyn in a typical role) is furious, vows to disown her daughter. The other 3 Ya-Yas kidnap Sidda, begin an intervention, which basically consists of telling her that her mom was hospitalized for months when the children were little, had not abandoned them, Sidda had used that abandonment as her reason for failing to commit, mother daughter reconciled, Sidda's wedding was on again. The story was shown in flashback format.  DVD picture and sound good. No interesting extras. Loan from public library. "},{"Title":"Ya Ya!!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having read the novel some 6 months before, I waited in great anticipation to watch this film. While I don't think the film is the best adaptation of a book ever, it wasn't bad either. Several incidents are omitted and that's inevitable I guess. Perhaps a little more detail in the flashback scenes would have helped audiences(who had not read the novel) to fully appreciate the gravity of the story unfolding. I do have one grouse though...this story among other things and perhaps most of all, is about mothers and daughters - it's about Buggy Abbott and Vivi and Vivi and Siddalee. In the film Buggy Abbott's character is reduced to some 2 farcical scenes that don't at all delve into her character, her rigidity towards Vivi that might explain Vivi's desire to escape the restrictions of a domestic life after her marriage. Probably because of time constraints they could not include the episode in which Vivi is admitted into a Catholic institution by Buggy, which forms perhaps the most poignant part of the book, but to compensate for that, they could have etched Buggy's character better.This is by far the best performance of Ashley Judd's that I have seen. I didn't really have someone like her in mind as young Vivi, but Judd is brilliant. The entire sequence in which she takes off to some beach-side resort to escape the drudgery of domestic life was really well rendered. I especially liked that one long mid-shot of hers staring at herself in the mirror - it was beautifully shot and acted. Ellen Burstyn's been quite a favourite of mine and she along with the Ya-Ya bandwagon consisting of Maggie Smith, Fionnula Flanagan and Shirley Knight made a really nice, warm and endearing group! I doubt if many women would not want these creatures as their god-mothers, confidants et al! About Sandra Bullock, well though the story technically revolved around her character, she too was more of an audience in the Ya-Ya drama, almost overshadowed by the older Ya-Yas!Yes, as is often mentioned in the reviews over here, one is reminded of 'Fried Green Tomatoes' and 'Steel Magnolias', not only because these films are also very women oriented, but also because they're also set in the South. I am reminded of 'Now and Then' too, which has a vaguely  similar story-line about a bunch of girlfriends reuniting and reminiscing about their childhood. While 'Divine Secrets...' - the film, probably doesn't quite match up to the aforementioned films, it's still quite entertaining if you allow yourself - suspending all exaggerated preconceived notions about chick flicks - to let the Ya-Yas take you for a jolly good ride!* A better ride is defintely instore if you read the novel!    "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just watched this on DVD. Did not have a chance to see it at the theater. Have not read the book. I thought it was great. The women and the young women were fantastic. I don't get all the bashing of the movie vs. the book. Seldom are movies that are based on a book ever totally true to the book. The movie story has to stand as its own story. And James Garner is the best. Handsome sensitive.....all man. If you are interested in seeing him in another fine movie....rent Sunset.He plays an aging Wyatt Earp acting as consultant on a movie set that is doing a story of his life. Bruce Willis as cowboy actor Tom Mix is playing the younger Wyatt Earp in the movie they are filming. Malcom McD. plays the studio head bad guy of course. "},{"Title":"Read the book first","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I find most movies just don't live up to the books they are taken from but this one did a pretty good job.  The casting was incredible in my opinion. They left a lot from the book out so it would seem to the viewer, who didn't read the book, that something was missing.My husband commented that the men had really no part in the movie, I had to explain to him that that was basically the point.  Its a movie about mothers, daughters and girlfiends and how strong our bonds are and understanding why we are the way we are in some cases.Overall its a really good movie (and a chick flick) but you really lack a lot of the meaning and heart in this movie if you haven't read the book and gone deeper into these women's lives. "}{"Title":"Divine Cast","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film based on the very popular novel was breezy and enjoyable.  The two main reasons to watch this film are the performance by Ellen Burstyn and Sandra Bullock.  I thought Ashley Judd was a little miscast and it took me a while to figure out exactly who her character was,  I also wished I'd seen more about Bullock's brother, but they included a cut scene in the DVD.   Still, this was basically a good time with great performances. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films I've ever seen!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood isn't exactly a love-it or hate-it affair it's a near thing. Callie Khouri's (the one who brought us the excellent Thelma & Louise) film adaption changes a few facts, but captures the essence of Rebecca Well's book. If you liked Fried Green Tomatoes and Steel Magnolias then you surely want to share also the divine 'secrets'. Mark Andrus adapted the book for the screen. The Divine Secrets make you feel as if you've settled in for satisfying round of good old-fashioned family storytelling, the sort of thing you get from movies like Steel Magnolia. Sidda Lee Walker (Sandra Bullock), a successful New York playwright, is interviewed by Times magazine. What she said is taken out of context and is read by her dramatic mother, Viviane Abbot Walker (Ellen Burstyn), who promptly gets extremely upset. Her mother's friends-the girls with whom she found the secret order of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood (played by Maggie Smith, Fionnula Flannagan and Shirley Knight) -decide to perform an emergency 'intervention' They 'kidnap' Sidda and whisk her back down below the Mason-Dixon line and fore her to confront the truths about her mother in the hopes to understand her better. Essentially that means, Sidda gets a good dose of She ain't crazy, she's only a Southern. Of course there are many more reasons why Vivi turned out as she did she had a perhaps over doting father and a crazy-Catholic mother and from the time they are young, the Ya-Yas drink Vodka like water. The movie shifts back and forth between the flashbacks of the young Ya-Yas (Ashley Judd as the vivacious Vivi) and their present day version. The actors did a good job to make the characters convincing at the bad and the good times. At the end I'm sure you will love this film and you also won't have missed the message women must stick together, through thick and thin. Women are strong, southern women in particular because of their sass and liveliness. Ellen Burstyn (Vivi) has this character's stubbornness and vulnerability that seem to come from a life of denial about harsher reality. She, Fionnula Flanagan (Teensy), Shirley Knight (Necie) and Maggie Smith (Caro) have a feisty chemistry as lifelong best friends. Maggie Smith steals scenes as the group's most sarcastic member who gets the movie's best lines.This is a movie where women's feelings and relationships are far more important than anything. The film is a colourful picture of their lives, thoughts and friendships. The only negative aspect is the very profane language. There are some words which I don't want to mention and even more misuses of God's and Jesus' names. My prediction is that most women will love the way it plays out on screen, and find themselves laughing aloud at scenes very familiar to them from their own lives. On the other side, me in the audience-like the men in the movie-may prefer to appreciate these friendships from a distance, rather than experience them up close and personal.  "},{"Title":"A great movie for those who can appreciate it","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went and saw this movie w/ my mom(like so many others lol).  We both thought we were going to see a comedy.  Well, it definitely was not what we expected.  My mom didn't really like it, but i'm actually glad i saw it with her.  Sandra Bullock is my favorite actress(along with Julia Stiles w/ Reese Witherspoon right behind) and although this isn't her best movie, she still did a good job.  This movie was much sadder than I had expected.  But I assure you, it was NOT a chick flick.  I noticed in other reviews a lot of people complained it was hard to follow but I didn't think it was.  This wasn't the funniest movie or the greatest movie or anything like that, but i still think it was really good with a great cast.  I recommend this movie only to people who can appreciate movies that aren't all sugar-coated with hollywood-unreality. "},{"Title":"Good movie a little hard to follow at times","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Over all this was a good movie. It was a little hard to follow at times though. Sandra Bullock and Ashley Judd did a great job portraying these characters, both actresses are great. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie didn't seem to get very good reviews but I think it is best movie that I have seen in a long time.  The story kept you interested from start to finish and the acting was outstanding.  Ashley Judd should have received an award for her role and it was nice to see Sandra Bullock in a dramatic role.  It was also nice to see all of the older generation actors and actress in a starring role.I don't have any life situations that are similar to the movie but I still enjoyed the story immensely, just the interaction of all the characters and what they would do to help each other out. I have recommended this movie to every one I know and I just wish I hadn't wait so long to see it. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, my totally subjective analysis of this movie is  I liked it..a lot. I've seen Terms of Endearment, Steel Magnolias, American Quilt, Joy Luck Club, etc. But Divine Secrets hit it on the nail as far as my experience goes.  I related on a visceral level to this film.  I could enjoy those other movies that depict mother/daughter relationships, but none of them portray what I could personally relate to.  Divine Secrets must be different than all the others because it is the first time I have felt that I was seeing my own life on screen. Yeah, this film ain't perfect...but few are.  Yeah, it's a chick flick, but that works for me cuz I'm a chick! But, hey, it does speak to a different subset of mother/daughter relationships than what has previously been addressed in film as far as I have seen.  If your momma's a prima donna then you might wanna see this flick.  "},{"Title":"Better than okay","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was never going to watch this movie. The title alone gave me good enough reason. Even when my sister rented it, I frowned expecting anything but that. But I was tired and didn't move. It was better than okay. It had the Steel Magnolia, Fried Green Tomatoes, and How to make an American Quilt vibe going and the pacing was never slow. But there may be a spoiler ahead. For one, where was Sandra's brother and sister later in life? The other kids were just as affected as Sandra's character I know. She should have been the only child if that was the case. At least put some stock characters to nodd their heads to agree or disagree with Sandra and the ya-yas. Maybe I missed them, it was a first viewing for me. That just stuck out to me. Everything else was pretty realistic, pretty good.  "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, it was wonderful, I went to see it with some of my closest girlfriends and we all cried like we haven't had since green fried tomatoes. A lot of people take a strip off this film for small reasons. I have some news not every film is designed to be a Citizen Kane!!! sometimes there are films that are made so you can sit and just feel with out having to analyze and take a nice drama apart. I strongly recommend this film for a nice movie night with your closest girlfriends. This film is up there with my favorite dramas such as steel magnolias and color purple.A celebration to friendship this film deserves a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A heartwarming story about a mother and daughter whose relationship has been ruined through misunderstandings and the stories of the past retold in an effort to repair it.  I loved it.  It is definately not just some silly girl movie.  I'd recommend it to any true drama lover. "},{"Title":"Nothing very divine here","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood' will remind you of how much fun `Steel Magnolias' was.  This latest helping of deep-fried Southern cornpone does have a few pertinent observations to make about dysfunctional mother/daughter relationships, but the artificiality of the whole enterprise robs the film of any real significance it might have had (`Steel Magnolias' was artificial too, but at least it had a hell of a funny script to render the absurdity enjoyable.  `Sisterhood' is not nearly so generous in the laugh department).Sandra Bullock stars as Sidda Walker, a successful playwright whose relationship with her mother - the fiery, temperamental and mercurial Vivi - has been anything but smooth sailing.  After Vivi reads Sidda's comments about her in a TIME Magazine interview - in which she appears to blame her mother for her unhappy childhood - a serious rift develops between mother and daughter.  In an attempt to heal the breach, Vivi's three lifelong pals - the girls with whom she helped found the secret order of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood - decide to perform an emergency `intervention.'  They `kidnap' Sidda for the time being and force her to confront the truths about her mother in the hopes that Sidda will understand her better.  This set-up paves the way for the film to go flashbacking all over the map, as Vivi, Sidda, her father and a whole host of other people conjure up the memories that ultimately reveal the true picture of Vivi's troubled life.`Ya-Ya Sisterhood,' despite the best of intentions perhaps, has phoniness stamped all over it, starting with the whole cutesy Ya-Ya Sister nonsense. Any film that features four grown women gathered in a candlelit circle, wearing makeshift bejeweled hats, making blood pacts and periodically yelling out `Ya-ya' to one another is already pushing too hard to try to win us over.  I also guess we're supposed to think it's cute when these three older women spike Sidda's drink in a bar, drag her unconscious onto an airplane (with her fiancé's full approval, apparently), and hold her `hostage' in a home in Louisiana.   That Sidda doesn't just tell them all to go to hell and run out the front door is the strangest mystery the film has to offer.In actuality, `Ya-Ya Sisterhood' does have a few meaningful moments. These occur most frequently when the characters are allowed to settle down and do some quite reflecting, most notably Vivi herself, either in her current incarnation as harridan supreme (brilliantly enacted by Ellen Burstyn) or in her previous one as a well-meaning young mother coping with personal tragedy and mental illness (Ashley Judd plays her in these scenes and one is struck by just how easily, in facial terms at least, she might well grow up to be Burstyn.  It's a good match).  Some of the flashbacks, in particular, are searing in their portrayal of actual emotional pain, so much so that we feel further demeaned every time the film foists another of those cutesy, folksy moments of eccentric humor on us - which happens far too often I'm afraid. When all is said and done, the serious message of the film simply becomes buried under all the funny hats, mumbled incantations, phone banging, pie throwing, drug imbibing that end up defining the métier of the project.`The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood' feels like two movies actually - the quiet one which wins us over with its subtlety and charm and the loud one which repels us with its self-consciousness and corniness.  Sorry to say it's the second movie that ultimately emerges victorious. "}{"Title":"An essential film for every mother and daughter","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We should all be so lucky to have 3 lifelong friends as dear as these 3. What I loved about the film was that it makes you re-evaluate the relationship you have with your mother, and that the film never drags. There is a new surprise every 10 minutes and the performances are fantastic, especially Maggie Smith and Ashley Judd. The men may enjoy it too but I saw it with my mother, and I'm glad I did. My favorite film of the year! **** "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not the type to see, let alone enjoy this kind of movie, but... I thought it was great! Make up your own mind before you read and agree with the critiques of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood!!! Don't judge a book by it's cover! Please, check it out! Ashley Judd gives a wonderful performance, once again! "},{"Title":"Not a Sandra Bullock movie","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I certainly didn't know what to expect of this movie, but I had a good laugh in a thursday afternoon, so I guess it was OK for me. I thought it was gonna be one of those Sandra Bullock's romantic comedy, but it turns out the center of the movie is not her character, but the one played by Ashley Judd and Ellen Burstyn.This is a film about mothers and daughters. About how difficult their relation can be and how to make it work with a little help from family and friends. The whole plot is very unbelievable, but the performances of every actress makes it enjoyable. Just go and have a laugh for a change. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable - would see it again.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed every minute of this movie.  It was both funny and sad.  It is certainly a mother/daughter movie.  The actors were all excellent and did a wonderful job. Its good to see the older female actors getting a chance to show what they can do - they get better as they get older.  I could see it again easily and would consider buying it to add to my video library.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A must for all mothers and daughters to watch together.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a film which will make you laugh and cry in equal measure.  It touches on the senses and demonstrates well the feelings women have at different stages in their life.  Maggie Smith is a joy to behold! "},{"Title":"DSYYS cult groupies will appreciate this foreplay","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILER----SPOILER----SPOILERDivine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood DSYYS is a multi-generation story of mothers and daughters, and the lifelong friendship of four 4 Louisiana belles.  Vivian, Caro, Teensy and Necie have been friends since childhood; through rain and shine, muck and mire, thick and thin----well you get the idea.  Siddalee, Vivian's daughter, is a successful Broadway playwright who's mind after 15 years of therapy is still a prisoner of her mother's history, the secrets which she's never been told.  All this hits the fan when a `tell all' magazine interview with Siddalee finds its way to bayou country.  The Ya-Ya Sisterhood intervenes, transports Siddalee to the Louisiana piney woods, where her family story unfolds. DSYYS is a story of life.  Like life, the film is complex, non-linear and multi-dimensional in its telling.  Initially, the film sets the context and characters with numerous flashbacks, entertaining vignettes, and uses multiple actors for each character the story spans a long timeframe.  DSYYS cult groupies will appreciate this foreplay more than will journeyman movie fans.  The story comes together at midpoint, as the film gets legs, establishes a rhythm and tells an intense, emotional and heartwarming story.  DSYYS offers some truly stellar performances, while others could have been better cast.  Ellen Burstyn and Ashley Judd are better than perfect virtually morphing into one persona, as they portray at two different ages Vivian, the anguished mother.  Sandra Bullock, on the other hand, is not the requisite sympathetic or troubled character that she portrays.  Think Laura Dern or Margot Kidder in this role.  Maggie Smith who plays Caro is a film icon and an onscreen presence; she is not a Ya-Ya girl!  Her acerbic persona and age just don't fit the profile of a southern lady.  Think Jane Alexander for this part.    "},{"Title":"A Brilliant and Touching Film.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Divine Secrets Of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood was a great movie. The movie is about Sidalee (Sandra Bullock), a young woman who has a great boyfriend, but a terrible mother (Ellen Burstyn). Then, making things worse, in time magazine, Sidalee is asked what her mother was like, and she gives them a full load of info. Now, her mother is terribly mad, and they send back and forth ripped up photos of each other, and bother the crap out of each other. Now, not inviting her to her wedding, her mother is really mad, and her three friends who also belonged to their group of the Ya-Ya sisters take Sidalee away, to help her and her mother go back to being nice again. Filled with the memories of past years, Sidalee learns a valuble lesson between mother and daughters.This is a great and well-acted movie. I give The Divine Secrets Of the Ya Ya Sisterhood a 10 out of 10!!  "},{"Title":"Well-done Ashley Judd!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although this film, adapted from both Rebecca Wells books, (The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood and Little Altars Everywhere) pulls enough punches to drive a bookie nuts in Vegas, it still manages to push all the right buttons and provide a stage for Ashley Judd, who shines as a real actress at long last.Ms. Judd has starred in a long series of extremely mediocre films, and a short list of really bad ones. So far, she has failed to impress with her acting ability in any of them. In Ya-Ya, however, she glows with an inner fire that ought to earn her an academy award nomination.  What's disappointing, unfortunately, is that even though her performance is superb, the film itself is just good, and not great.The plot mechanics are well-known by now Siddalee Walker, (Sandra Bullock) manages to p*** off her volatile mother Vivi Walker Abbot (Ellen Burstyn) from a distance by giving an interview that describes her childhood as less than perfect. The feud is a long-standing one, borne of much tribulation, and the interview threatens to be the last straw in an already fragile relationship. Added to this is the problem that Sidda has about marriage--her long-term relationship with Connor (Angus McFeyden) wants to blossom into a real marriage, but she's unsure and unable to commit, fearing that she will turn into all the bad versions of her mother if she gets married. This is cold-feet syndrome gone slightly potty, beacause as anyone can see without trying very hard, Connor is absolutely perfect. Sidda obviously needs help, and the Ya-Ya's (Maggie Smith, Fionnula Flanagan, and Shirley Knight), her mother's lifelong friends, step in to help repair not only Sidda's rift with her mother, but also her fear of marriage.The Ya-Ya's have plenty of experience to offer, in the form of a huge scrapbook, which, after kidnapping Sidda and whisking her off to Louisiana, they force her to examine; it does, of course, eventually change everything she thinks and feels about her life, her parents, her own fears and shortcomings, and naturally, Connor.That embodies my only gripe with this film its sweetness and light. It's not as pat as Steel Magnolias, nor as weepy. You won't need a box of Kleenex while watching it. But--it's certainly far FAR less dark and forbidding than Rebecca Wells' novels, which were downright perverse in spots. The film glosses over some of the rougher memories that Vivi and her friends share her alcoholism (which is the root of many of her problems) and her depression and breakdown, and her child abuse, which was almost forgiven by circumstance in the film, (but not, thank goodness, in the book.) Vivi is likable in the film. So are Sidda, Shep, Caro, Necie and Teensy--and the rest of the cast. In their original form, as envisioned by Wells, they are all much harder to like, and therefore their stories are much more deeply satisfying when you end up liking them despite all their faults.Even so, this is a good film. It stands on its own, and honors the books it was taken from with a decently-written, though thin, adaptation. The other actors' performances, particularly Maggie Smith's and the other three Ya-Ya's, are noteworthy, as is James Garner's as Shep.And Ashley Judd is just a wonder to watch. It's worth the price of admission just to see her alone. I recommend it to women, particularly, and urge everyone who sees it to also read the books for the better, and more in-depth, version.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps one of the best Book&Movie","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sisterhood is a film that will make you laugh, cry, and remember the most important things in life, like friendship, family, truth, and relationships with those around you. It takes many trips down the path of life and is filled with laughter, sorrow, drama, but all around triumph. Maybe not exactly the same as Rebecca Wells great book, but pretty close.  "},{"Title":"Very entertaining...","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had to submit comments after viewing this film (I just saw the film a little over three hours ago!)  I really liked this film.  I have never read the novel, but I plan to purchase it from www.amazon.com as soon as possible!Seriously, the cast was great.  It was truly refreshing to see a film with actresses who show more talent than flesh.  Ashley Judd was outstanding in her role as younger Vivi.  Ladies, please see this film, even though men may view this film as a chick flick.  You won't be disappointed with the cast! "}{"Title":"proof that lifelong friendships have cherished old baggage..filled with decals of places you've been","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this is a movie that should be shared by soul mates .  I seen it with my 38 year old daughter, and I will see it again many times with my Ya Ya's and alone.   The baggage we have accumulated in our life time may not be the same as Vivi and Sedda Lee, but the movie makes it clear that we all have baggage and the burden of hauling  it is made lighter with friends that know its weight.        My daughter just kept laughing, crying and in between hugging me & kissing me she told me over and over how much she loved me. I was out of town but, some fellow Ya ya's went to see the movie...one them had just had her eyes operated on (I had just taken her for surgery the day before)  and she was not going with them because her eyes were  black & blue.... their way of handling the dilemma...they  all went to the movie wearing dark glasses at the evening  showing....Did I like the movie?...I loved it! Rebecca Wells is a fabulous writer and I recommend you read both little Alters Everywhere as well as The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood   The movie was as good of an adaptation as one could expect, since  it would take many more hours to cover all that the book took in...The acting was excellent and, even though I had cast it differently in my own mind, I was very pleased with the actresses portrayals of their characters..   Finally...I think it would make a fantastic television mini series ! "},{"Title":"Good, but not great adaptation","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film presents the bare bones of the two novels, leaving out quite a lot of imperative information. Perhaps this was done in order for the spectators to identify and actually like the characters. Vivianne's character is who we are told to sympathize with in the film. In the books, the children become the victims. The film, in a sense, provides the cotton candy, easy to watch version of a more dramatic and brutal story. Ashley Judd and Maggie Smith gave exceptional performances, and I wish that they both had more screen time. Though I did like the film, I couldn't help but feel a little cheated.  "},{"Title":"A primer for all men everywhere","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was certainly a movie set in Louisiana; but it could have been anywhere in the US and probably any other country as well. Women, bless there hearts have always had childhood friends and those groups stick together and help one another through whatever trial or tribulation befalls them. Men on the other hand really don't have a clue what goes on in these groups or how best to capitalize on those friendships. James Garners character was each and every man that is married or has a girlfriend. He, like we was clueless through the whole ordeal. Some may call it a chick flick only because they don't want to see themselves 20 feet tall in Shep. I read this book and the next (Little Alters Everywhere) and think Rebecca Welles, hit the nail on the head. I will see this movie several more times. I will own the DVD and give copies to my friends. A great movie!!!!!! "},{"Title":"I LOVE ASHLEY JUDD.  HER BEST ROLE YET","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed Divine Secrets Of The Ya-Ya Sisterhood all the way through.  I wouldn't call it a chick flick, if you will, but rather a movie in which everyone can enjoy.  The ironic part is that it was I who wanted to see this movie long before it came out and not my girlfriend who completely hates it. A lot of people have said that you have to be from the south to understand it a whole lot better.  I'm not from the south.  I'm from Louisville Ky, I now live in Birmingham and I don't think that makes a bit of difference. It was a movie that can touch anyone.  You will laugh, then you will cry, then you will laugh a whole lot more.  The whole cast was superb and everyone gave excellent performances in their roles.  I love anything Ashley Judd does and this was her best role yet.  You can really believe that she was the character who was being portrayed.  All of her characters like she said on E! have been sort of hurt in a way.  This time her character has to be very triumphant, and believe me she succeeds in bringing triumph to the big screen.  Everyone else was excellent as well which is why it was such a great film.  I would call the performances by everyone flawless. I would give it a solid 10/10. See it as soon as you can.  Bottom line, I'm crazy about Ashley Judd, and if she had not been in the film, I still would have liked it, but it was so much better with Ashley.    "},{"Title":"Chick Flick","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is good if you are a girl and you like old fashioned movies. This is about four girls who have been friends since they were little kids until their 70's.  when they are older, one mother, Vivi, has a daughter who doesn't get along with her until she meets the other 3 girls. this is a mother/daughter movie and its great "},{"Title":"fun, good revelation of relationships and friendships","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was extremely enjoyable. Very funny parts; very serious parts; moving; easy to identify with the feelings even though I haven't shared the same experiences; acting was superb by all the actors; very well done character development. "},{"Title":"We all loved Fried Green Tomatoes; we all loved Divine Secrets","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not a chick, but I loved this movie. I saw in with my wife and a friend of hers.My wife said I'm hoping this movie will be sort of like 'Fried Green Tomatoes.' It was.Absolutely delightful, we laughed out loud MANY times.My wife's friend was the only one of us who had read the books, and she said that she had to admit that the liked the movie better--simply because the book dwelt on the dark elements of the story more than the movie did.I was slightly disappointed in Sandra Bullock's performance. She was OK--well, more than OK--but not quite 100% convincing. And it had the the usual Hollywood problem in which the performers who play children don't have a believable physical resemblance to their parents.  Just about everyone else was perfect. "},{"Title":"Television series","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting was believable for the most part (Bullock's delivery seemed too rehearsed when the Ya-Ya's entered her and her boyfriend's apartment; in the touching scene with her mother, I expected Bullock to hesitate in responding to her mother that she would marry her boyfriend).  The friendship theme was well exploited.  The settings, the costumes, and the colors were fun to watch. The book contained many details that made the story even more touching than the movie.  I think it would make a compelling television series. Thank you to the authors and actors.   "},{"Title":"Better than I expected, but not great","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film is better than I expected it would be.  I was not particularly impressed by the previews, with Ellen Burstyn praying out loud to Mary in a circle of fireworks sparklers.  I read the books about 4 years ago, but they were not my favorite books, so I wasn't really looking forward to the movie version.  I expected the movie to totally ignore the child abuse subplots of the books, but they were featured in a relatively minor way.Ellen Burstyn is too old to be Sidda's mother today (Sandra Bullock is 37 and Burstyn was portrayed as a young post-WWII mother).  I suppose the cars were supposed to clue us in to the time setting (maybe mid-80's?), but there were no other references to that time.  An eighties hairstyle for Bullock would have helped make the time setting more consistent. "},{"Title":"A chick flick that takes the high road","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As one of four males that was forced to see the Ya-Ya's I knew I was in serious trouble.  This is the first time I have ever been in a theatre and it smelled nice.Sans the female audience, The Devine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisters turns out to be a well written script that mixes some light comedy with dark subject matter.  History is left to the poets and sometimes they get it wrong.  The Ya-Ya sisters teach a quick lesson in slide of hand as the things we believe growing up are very different that what actually happened.Normally I like to write longer reviews but this is one of those rare movies that would be too easy to spoil trying to describe the movie or the characters. Suffice it to say that each character brings a special value to the screen and ultimately we end on the high road, not the Hollywood road for movie production.  This is no oscar movie but if your tired of explosions and superheros, then here is this summers refreshing break at the movies.  Just don't forget to have you husband sit by you with the Klinex. "}{"Title":"Sisterhood Rules","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a delightful movie on many levels. It was funny and also deeply touching. Fine performances from an outstanding cast.Roger Ebert's review raised the issue of the Southern Woman cliche and he questioned if southern women really act like they are portrayed in this movie.  I can tell you firsthand that they do, having been born and raised a southern woman by a drama infused, theatrical matriarchal centered family. I could easily identify with so many of the female characters in this movie. I suppose it's a Southern thing...Great movie and highly recommended. Even a male friend I dragged to this movie enjoyed it thoroughly (despite his pre-show protestations that it was a Chick Flick).  Don't miss... you will enjoy  "},{"Title":"Like Dirty Dancing nobody loves it except the movie-goers","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If anyone doubts this, look at the reviews of Dirty Dancing when it came out.  So it's not Steel Magnolias or ...Green Tomatoes but it is a fine movie with excellent actors and interesting plot and dialogue.  Do we get this every day?  And how many movies give us fine roles for older women? So it's predictable--have you seen any of the non Chic flick war movies, angst movies, stand-up comic gross-out movies--they're not predictable? Could it be that the male critics use a different standard for woman dominated movies, especially older women?  Lighten up boys!  "},{"Title":"Someone hire them a dialect coach!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Born and raised in South Louisiana, and having traveled all over LA, I've never heard accents that even resembled what they were attempting! The movie was good - I was the youngest of about a dozen males in the theater (I'm 42). Go take your wife - she'll appreciate your treating her to it - and we all know that a happy wife makes for a happy husband. This is an entertaining movie, I've seen a lot worse! "},{"Title":"Ya-Ya's and the Red Hat Society!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this with several of the members of our local chapter of the Red Hat Society.  The experience was highly enhanced by seeing it with my sisters. A very moving picture that shows the importance of having sisters like this to help you through all the good times and bad that life throws our way now and then. The Ya-Ya's started out in childhood together but it doesn't matter when you meet your soul sisters as long as you have somebody to count on. Highly recommend this movie for all women everywhere! "},{"Title":"A warm-hearted film which leaves you with a smile on your face.","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  DIVINE SECRETS OF THE YA-YA SISTERHOOD  ***_ Comedy/Drama Sandra Bullock, Ellen Burstyn, James GarnerAfter a major falling-out by mother and daughter, the mother's close friends try to help bring them back together. Many flashbacks give insights into the main characters. Since all the main characters are female, this classifies as a 'chick flick.' Out of an audience of about 100, I saw only one other man. And the ladies loved YA-YA -- laughing hysterically at some points. Apparently it touches a universal mother-daughter chord. One car chase. No explosions. This is a warm-hearted film which leaves you with a good feeling and a smile on your face.  "},{"Title":"YA-YA!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is no doubt this is a Chic Flick! But, this movie out does it's self! I came away, wanting more and more. The acting was wonderful and each character came to life. Maggie Smith, and Fionnula Flanagan really should have had more screen time! Just because these actress were so perfect in their roles. Not to say the rest of the cast wasn't great!This is a perfect movie to take your sisterhood/best friends too.YA-YA!! "},{"Title":"YA YA!!!","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie expecting it to be one of the best chick flicks I've ever seen.  It truly lived up to my expectations.  Some users have commented that it is not in the same league as Thelma and Louise or Fried Green Tomatoes and they're definitely correct...it's better!!!  It's a much more light-hearted movie than either of those.  It made me laugh throughout 70% of the movie and never made me cry, although it is very touching in parts.  See this movie.  You will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"what a great time","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  before we went to see this, my grandmother was unsure because of the critics negative response.  we both left the theater with a smile and had thoroughly enjoyed it. it is a chick flick and a good movie to see with family and friends. i laughed and cried and left feeling good about being a mom and a friend. i recommend this movie to any mom new or old and to any woman that is wanting a good laugh with a few tears mixed in. "},{"Title":"So much for a good drama","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It sucked. Period. Too complicated. Nasty, perverted stuff (i.e. defecation and old women going topless, so totally perverted). Ashley Judd at her worst. Same with Ellen Burstyn. I like the plot, but the movie, forget that. I've never read the book before, but I'm sure it sucks as well. They shouldn't have made it in the first place. I would rather watch something better than watch this garbage. The rest of the actors sucked. Except Ellen, Ashley and Sandra. I don't think you wanna watch it anyway. It's about this estranged daughter and mom and something about a scrapbook.So if you wish to, rent it, watch it, yawn and if you really hate it, never watch it again or think about it! I'm begging you, please don't watch it! >.< "},{"Title":"I couldn't do it....","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  DIVINE SECRETS came on HBO the other night. I hadn't seen it in the theaters, though I wouldn't have minded catching a Sandra Bullock flick. I started watching this film in earnest. About seven minutes into it I could take no more. The Southern Belle cornball accents and attitudes were more than I could endure. Well not really; but more than *cared* to endure. So I changed channels and began thinking of how much money I'd have to be paid to get me to sit through this movie. The figure I came up with? $450. "}{"Title":"Ya ya ya","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved the book and I was so excited when I heard it was going to be made into a movie. Well, I just watched it on DVD and it was such a letdown! They skipped around way too much so that if you hadn't read the book beforehand it would be really confusing. This was a great bunch of actors and actresses each in their own respect but it just didn't work out. I give it a 3 out of 10 for making me laugh every now and then.  "},{"Title":"Hated, hated, hated this movie!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watched this movie with my fiance. We're both fans of Ellen Burstyn, Maggie Smith and Shirley Knight.  Hope you got paid well for this garbage.  Unconvincing accents, big holes in the plot, a very heavy-handed story.  It might have helped if any of the actresses playing the same character even slightly resembled each other.  No, I take that back it wouldn't have.  The thing that drove us crazy is how can you have these younger siblings in the scenes with Ashley Judd as Vivi and never show them or refer to them in the present scenes!  What a disappointment and waste of talent! "},{"Title":"Just didn't get it","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It amazes me that a film that some thought was the best film they ever saw was for me an absolute waste of time. I almost fell asleep half way thru this, and wish I had as it would have been time better spent.This movie just seemed to be a long drawn out soap opera, with people in it that I couldn't have cared less about.I would have given this dribble of a movie a zero if it was possible.  "},{"Title":"About The Most Confusing Film Ever!","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this film with 2 other ladies. We thought it was supposed to be a comedy which it certainly does not come off as one. It flashbacks around so much that we often did not know who the people were! We would ask one another what the heck or who it was talking about, and usually got the answer I don't know, I blinked! That is how hard this movie is to keep up with. It is not an enjoyable film to watch in any way. We were left feeling frustrated, and cheated. I would not recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Secrets of Blah, Blah","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  I expected to hate this one and I was not disappointed.  Way too many attempts at creating classic Hollywood dialogs.  Don't writers and directors get it ... the harder you try to be cute, the less cute it is.  Callie Khouri has worked her way on to my Don't Bother list.  Her writing on Something to Talk About and Thelma And Louise and her directing and screenplay on this one have convinced me that she has nothing to say that I want to hear.  This movie could be used in place of captial punishment to prevent serious crimes.  One strike ... you are sentenced to watching this movie.  Sandra Bullock again proves she was a flash in the pan.  No longer cute and wholesome - just tiresome.  Ellen Burstyn put some effort into her role because she is a true professional.  Fionnula Flannigan (Waking Ned Devine, The Others) was a bit of kick to watch, but the talented Shirley Knight and James Garner were totally wasted.  Don't know what to say about Ashley Judd - seems as if they were so thrilled to have her in the movie, they didn't know how to use her.  I will give it to Maggie Smith for one of the best acting jobs while attached to an oxygen tank. "},{"Title":"These girls had a strange club going","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Better like lots of flashback because this film is full of it as it bounces back and forth over several decades. The viewer must stay the course to find the secret of the sisterhood and why one of the girls grew up skewed off center causing years of grief for her entire family. A resounding yes to this one.  "},{"Title":"When you are an hour into a movie,...","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  but still only know 2 names of the characters, you know a movie isn't working.  This movie didn't make a whole lot of sense because it would skip around too much. The only people I knew where the mom, Vivi and daughter, Sidda. I didn't really know who the other women were except friends of Vivi. And when it would show flashbacks, I knew Ashley Judd was playing the younger Vivi, but the movie never told who the other young women were.  Plus, I didn't like it when it jumped to the scene were Vivi was really young, like 12 and she was with some friends. At first, I didn't get who it was because the movie never makes clear who the people are in flashbacks.  Plus, the story was just plain boring. I thought this was going to have some funny lines, but it didn't.FINAL VERDICT  Boring and not entertaining. I don't recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE WAS THE WORST MOVIE OF THE YEAR","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I did not see the movie in the theaters because I thought the previews for it were STUPID....and of course like Hollywood has been known to do...it gave away the whole movie anyway.  THIS WAS BORING, SLOW, AND STUPID...grown women with stupid hats and ceremony....and all those years of hatred and the girl never knew her mother was looney tunes...DUMB GIRL...I just hope I can get this crappy movie out of MY MEMORY BANK so I dont go looney tunes...my grade is F....NOT ONE POINT....ZERO. "},{"Title":"extremely boring","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"            This was one of the few movies which really forced me to go to sleep. All throughout the movie, I had a hard time keeping my eyes open. Never ending conversations along with monotonous music were what the film was all about. The flashbacks were very dull and personally I think there isn't even a true plot. I must congratulate the producers though, since it shouldn't be so easy to bring up the most boring picture of the year.Complete waste of money and time. "},{"Title":"Bullock should retire.","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You know, it's movies like this that make it obvious why Sandra Bullock isn't exactly anybody's favorite actress. She's never been in a good movie with the exception of Speed (which was only good the first time through). This movie is no exception.DSOTYYS is a horrible movie. The way the older women kept talking to each other about their young lives reminded me way too much of the Golden Girls, which isn't a good thing (since only old people and females like that show).Bullock's overacting was irritating, as usual. I really don't know how she even has a film career. She's a worthless actress. She wouldn't even look good alongside six year old actors in a first grade play. In fact, she'd make them look good.Basically, I saw this flick as Golden Girls The Movie. I don't really care much for old people flashing back to their childhoods, back in 1902. The only part I liked was when the racist kid got owned for using racial slurs. That was funny. But, this movie is pretty much your average chick flick, soap opera style with 70's sitcom humor thrown in here and there.FINAL RATING 3 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Another Fine Mess","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.My gosh, a film that makes `Practical Magic' seem good. Cat's eye comments follow *.This is the story of Teensy a closeted lesbian who bands with fellow girls in a sort of soft core cult. Over the years, she doesn't marry but vicariously sucks life from the three others, leading them all in varying degrees to alcoholism. One of these is irreparably damaged and has a breakdown, so the damage is passed to the daughter a la Shirley MacLain. Teensy redeems herself through `healing' the child by `revealing' the breakdown, but hiding the infidelity with the priest. At the end, the daughter is inducted into the cult by Teensy after having been earlier drugged and kidnapped. One leaves the film stunned at the irony of the presumably happy tone of the end.Teensy inherited a fortune early in life, money originating in the slave trade a gift from the cult's god, Mary. Teensy spends it on three things a Rolls, grandly supporting Vivi's husband (a failed cotton farmer) after the breakdown, and first class nursing care for the now aging family maid.*Cat's eye comments result when nothing intelligent can be directly said of a film.(The implied film-within-the-film is the play about all this that the Bullock character writes.)Ted's evaluation 1 of 4 -- You can probably find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"What's so divine about drinking too much?","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood' is nothing short of self-indulgent twaddle.  The entire premise of this movie seems to be about never letting any male come between the members of this girls' club. Vivi, this spirited leader, is this specially gifted person who is somehow stultified in her spiritual growth by circumstances.  But besides riding in a car without her bra, what actions does she take for her growth?  It's like it is everyone else's fault!  She fantasizes but doesn't do anything, except drink and run away. Education anyone? Had Vivi's original beau, who was killed in the war, lived, one is expected to believe that things would have somehow been different.  But the failure of Vivi's motherhood seems to have nothing to do with her husband.  How many kids did she have?  When was it that she discovered that she wasn't going to be mother material or, for that matter, wife material?  This woman was supposed to be unusually bright! I did enjoy the relationship of the Ya-Ya's.  One gets the impression, however, that some things were there just because they were part of some real life experience.  For example, Maggie Smith's oxygen bottle isn't all that great a prop.  Additionally all the accents are generic rather than from Louisiana.  Sandra Bullock continuously plays an hysterical person who is occasionally waking up or calming down.  Additionally, her character remembers a difficult childhood, but oddly, doesn't recall the really bad things until she begins to look at the scrapbook.  While I can understand how she might want to block out being beaten with a belt while Mom was drunk, it certainly would be nice to have these things set as an emotional barrier before she starts re-reading it all.  Why is she the only one with issues?  Where are the rest of the kids? It took me about half the movie before I realized that the real hero is Dad. He just remains where he is supposed to be and does what he is supposed to do and more.  Vivi moves out of their bedroom in the 60's and he just keeps on taking care of things.  I am surprised that a man would be allowed such a portrait in a feminist movie. The real issue is that even when you forgive things, you have the etched stain of the sin, in this case the damage of some 30 years or more, alcohol, worry, desertion, emptiness and more.  No one is carrying the effects of the pain in this movie.  When Dad and Mom get back together, it looks like they have had a 10-minute spat. The question of forgiveness never gets the billing that it deserves.  All the horrors are slowly piled onto one another.  But does one have any choice but to forgive someone else when he or she needs it?  Forgiveness isn't about the mind, but about the heart.  It's a great lesson not to allow pride to stand in its way.  That should have been the story of the movie before it bored you to death with the obvious clichés at the end.  "},{"Title":"YADA-YADA-YADA","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  DIVINE SECRETS OF THE YA-YA SISTERHOOD (2002) *1/2 Sandra Bullock, Ellen Burstyn, Maggie Smith, Fionnula Flanagan, Shirley Knight,  Ashley Judd, James  Garner, Angus MacFadyen, Cherry Jones.  Flat-footed adaptation of the best seller by Mark Andrus via screenwriter Callie Khouri in her directorial debut serves up a rehash of  past &#145;chick flick/mother-daughter sagas' the likes of `Steel Magnolias', `The Joy Luck Club' and `How To Make An American Quilt'.  The title refers to the secret organization created by a quartet of Southern belle childhood friends whose relationships are only strengthened by boozed, chain smoking and male bashing (not necessarily in that order) and focuses on the grand dame of the group (Burstyn)  - whose feud with her towheaded daughter (Bullock) comes to a head to the point her cronies unite to get them back together.  The flashbacks are relentless and confusing (who is who as a younger version seems to be a moot point overall) and the characters distaff Tennessee Williams rejects.  Yada-Yada-Yada go rent `Terms of Endearment' for a fully realization of parent/child reunion. "},{"Title":"Yuk-Yuk","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oh boo-hoo. Vivi's boyfriend was killed in the war so she married some poor sap that she could push around, crawled into a bottle (booze, then pills, then back to booze when the pills didn't work out) all the while blaming her children and The Sap for her unfilled life. Then she had the nerve to be upset when her emotionally scarred daughter told the world that she remembered Mama and that it wasn't fondly. Mama's ticked so her little band of acolytes/enablers (all alcoholics to a woman),  kidnaps Sidda to prove to her that Mama's not so bad. Yeah, maybe if you're viewing her through the bottom of a glass she's not. The worst part of this movie is that Mama gets away with it! She wraps her daughter in Southern charm and eccentricity and all is forgiven. Fade to black.This is the first movie I ever wanted to walk out of, and almost did during the scene where she was beating her children bloody with a leather belt. The movie hints that Vivi's mother made her life a living hell when she was a child. Too bad she didn't remember any of those feelings before she started inflicting similar pain on her own children. But then again, it's obvious that Vivi's are the only feelings that matter to Vivi. Did anyone else notice that none of her three children lived anywhere near her in her golden years?The cast is loaded with great actresses, all who have been fine in other work, and James Garner makes a nice doormat. I confess I didn't read the book(s) nor do I want to after this. The director does try to take some of the edge off by inserting little manipulative bits of warmth and caring into the movie at various points so that the audience won't think Vivi's a total monster, but it's way too little too late. The movie ends up being too bitter a pill for the intelligent viewer to swallow.And a note to Maggie Smith, recently so good in Gosford Park add American Southerner to your never-again list. Vivien Leigh could handle the accent, you can't. What were you thinking? And along those lines, what was the studio advertising department thinking when they promoted this as a comedy??? "},{"Title":"Traditional Feminist nonsense","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The most common stereotype about feminists is that they hate all men. The second most common stereotype is that they believe all women would be better off without men. This movie promotes both of these stereotypes. Movies like Divine Secrets of the YA-YA Sisterhood often make me wonder whether or not I should support feminists or condemn them as political extremists.The only male character in this film is a weak pathetic fool who is bossed around by his arrogant and self-absorbed wife. Clearly, the writers were trying to show that women can dominate their husbands - just like us tyrannical, violent males have been doing for centuries. Wow, that's quite a step forward for women everywhere!What is so ironic is that the people who made this movie were trying so desperately to promote the idea of female independence and sisterhood, and instead ended up making both those ideas look absurd.  There is not a single moment of this film that feels even remotely real. This film makes Enough look like a plausible story of female empowerment.  "},{"Title":"Crappy feminist film","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is the most crappy film I have ever seen - pointless, plotless, totally uninteresting and doze-inducing.  The only thing I remember from this movie is this classic quote, In the first place, it's blah blah blah, and secondly, even if it's blah blah blah, it's none of blah's business. "},{"Title":"ridiculous old biddies shimmer in false feminist film","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ya Ya Ya Ya.. Yuck.  Maggie Smith ought to be ashamed of herself, but hey, yah gotta pay the rent.  Smarmy, lousy directing, every scene a parody of the South that never was.  Negroes dancing in a funeral band to a birthday party of an old, priveleged drunk of a white woman... yezz'ma'am... we sho' do love youse and how you abused us on dee plantation!  Bad script.  Sandra Bullock hung in there and so did Ashley Judd, but the old women were horrid.  Hard to make those actresses stink, but the script and director did.  It was contrived, gauzey, florid and untrue.  I wish the two male characters in the story would have walked away down dee lane, leaving these silly southern sisters to molder in their fantasies... let me give you a taste of the absurdity of the script... suppose, just suppose that you are premiering a play on broadway (the writer), and your mother's friends (the Ya Yuck sisters) take you out on the town, put a date-rape powder in your drink, and somehow fly you, comatose, (but, first class) to the bayou to confront your mother at all costs!  I would have them arrested, sentenced to the looney bin, and get my buns back to NYC to my waiting director and actors.  But not her.  She deals with Moe-mama and her dear biddies. Don't rent it.  Don't watch it.  Start a campaign to melt the videos into slag.Most Sincerely,  Stephen K. Smith "},{"Title":"Horrible trash - again!","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Please! Not another girl-gang movie about nothing. Poorly acted, poorly cast and poorly written. The main characters in this movie are selfish, self-centered and hateful. The movie is has no humor what-so-ever and the only men are, as usual with this type of movie, lacking a backbone. This movie can not be compared to Steel Magnolias. The story had so many holes - it never addressed exactly what the Ya-Ya Sisterhood was; never told us what was in 'the book'; never really gave a good explanation why Vivi was so rotten, even after the 'recovery'; left Sidda's siblings in the flashbacks. The casting was so bad - none of the 'actresses' could manage the southern accents; the age difference between Vivi and Sidda was extremely noticeable; and why spend the money on the men in the movie when they could have just hired manequins to play the parts. They would have been more lively and animated. Isn't the man-bashing phase in our society over yet? Don't bother with this trash. "}]