[{"Title":"Appeals to a very select audience","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I am not an NSync (spelling?) fan, but this is one of my favorite movies for multiple reasons1. It is surprisingly clean. No foul language whatsoever and it is soooo rare to find a PG movie that isn't targeting young kids/families (for those sensitive to this or can appreciate this element).2. There is a very significant secondary plot about music. In fact, I have this movie to thank for introducing me to the music of Al Green (I also own the soundtrack). The end's a little cheesy, but for someone who also played open mic's at one point, it's nice to indulge a fantasy now and then.3. Dave Foley's character has some truly funny moments. His stand up roots really shine through.4. It's not a teeny bopper. Lance Bass and his friends are past their college years, and Lance's love interest just finished grad school.So with that, it is difficult to predict who the movie was targeting, but it certainly got my attention. "},{"Title":"Sure to leave the viewer with a happy feeling","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Kevin (Lance Bass) is a young advertising executive whose career is on the upswing.  However, his personal life is more of a shambles as he is painfully shy around women.  One day on a train in Chicago, he meets pretty Abbey (Emmanuelle Chriqui), who strikes his interest immediately. They both love Al Green, the Cubs, and history.  However, Kevin clams up at the end of the conversation and fails to acquire her name and telephone number.  He regrets his lack of fortitude soon after and decides to put up posters around the city in an effort to find her.  The local newspaper, spotting one of the signs, even features an article on Kevin's plight. Yet, Abbey fails to appear.  Will Kevin connect again with Abbey, even as he's fighting off the attentions of other women?With NSync member Bass as the star of the show, one would expect a movie only tweens would appreciate.  Not so.  Bass and Chriqui are winsome and winning as they seek to find each other again.  The scenes in and around Chicago are engaging.  The supporting cast is a bit goofy and grating at times (especially Kevin's friends) but, overall, the presentation of the movie is upbeat and humorous.  Fans of light-hearted romantic films would be savvy to seek out this little sleeper. A happy feeling will permeate the viewer's heart for a long time.   "},{"Title":"Adorable movie for any pre-teen!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  On The Line is a sweet and innocent movie for little girls or those who love cute little romances. Lance Bass from Nsync fame is quite good as the lead who always chokes up around the opposite sex and in the workplace. I was pleasantly surprised with this movie. It has an innocent quality that is not found in many films anymore. On The Line isn't Oscar winning but it is a movie that should appeal to those who love the innocence of young love.  "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I think that Joey and Lance were great in this movie.  I think that the plot was very good and the movie was funny.  I plan on seeing this movie again. Both Lance and Joey have good singing voices and I think that it is great that they both get to show off their many talents in this movie. "},{"Title":"Cute Romantic Comedy","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Coming into this movie I think I expected a lot.  The story line was really well played out but the acting got to me after awhile.  I am an 'N Sync fan but not all singers are meant to be actors.  I had a hard time thinking of Lance Bass as anything but a singer, and his acting skills weren't all that convincing otherwise.  At times, it appeared to be just him reading the lines.  Don't get me wrong though, I enjoyed the movie because it was a very cute romantic comedy.  I just had a hard time overlooking the actors' abilities. But I would suggest this movie to any romantic comedy lover.  And the movie had a really good story line as well as comedy! -D "},{"Title":"Better than I expected.","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, I thought it was going to be just a vehicle for Lance and Joey. It actually had a decent story line and great supporting actors in it! Lance was not the cardboard cut out that I was expecting him to be. He was no Paul Newman, but he did a great job for a first try on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard of this movie being made, I thought, O-kay, now *NSync is doing movies?  It will probably suck!  Why don't they just stick to singing?  We've all seen movies like this- singers trying to crossover into acting, and most of the time the movie flops.  But this movie was different- it was actually good.  The acting was great, the comedy was excellent, and I found myself shouting out, Get the girl's number or something! at the key moment in the beginning.  I wish more people would give this movie a chance. People might think this movie is geared for preteen girls because it does star two members of *NSync-but I think more guys would relate to this movie- I know I sure did.      "},{"Title":"Nothing But Entertainment For 'Nsync Fans","Date":"11 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" On the Line is a romantic comedy film that stars Lance Bass and Emmanuelle Chriqui together with Joey Fatone and Jerry Stiller. The film was directed by Eric Bross and was written by Eric Aronson and Paul Stanton, based upon their short film of the same title.On the Line tells a story of a shy Kevin Gibbons, an advertising executive in Chicago who's notoriously maladroit at dealing with the opposite sex. After a chance encounter with his dream girl aboard the El train, Kevin forgets to ask for her name and phone number and plasters the Windy City with posters seeking his lost love connection. Kevin's quest to find the mystery girl soon attracts the attention of a newspaper reporter and he becomes a media darling, while his roommates Rod,Randy, and Eric take full advantage of the amorous response by Chicago's female population to their friend's heartbroken search.On the Line has some clumsy dialogue and awkward turns.Also,it has a lot of thing unpleasant such as non-actors involved in the movie with clichéd,formulaic,implausible and predictable story.Overall,On The Line provides nothing but entertainment for 'Nsync fans. "},{"Title":"Better than expected from a boyband","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The movie while highly anticipated by my younger sibilings did not strike me as some movies do.  I figured that the story would be guy loses and then finds girl.  Which don't get me wrong it is, but it was more developed than that.  Now most would automatically shrug the movie off because two Nsyncers star in it, but you should never judge a book by it's cover or in this case a movie by its actors.  Lance Bass did a great job, and well the sense was given that Joey was practically playing himself.  The movie does have some crude humor, but the average child would not understand, and there is one curse word but you have to pay close attention to catch it.  Anyway its a must see movie for the hopeless romantic.  For all you ladies it's the type of movie where the main character is the guy of your dreams.  Plus there is an extra unpublicised ending. Above all it's a cute and sweet movie. A+A+A+A+A+ "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious. It's definately unique to other movies that are out right now because it's a feel good movie. There's no violence, no swearing.. it's just a lot of fun. Lance Bass will surprise naysayers with his excellent performance. Emmanuelle Chriqui is a great actress and compliments Bass beautifully as they have good chemistry together. It seems like the role of Rod, Kevins best friend was made for Joey Fatone. I couldn't picture anyone better to fill it. Some people may think that the dialogue is cheesy at times, but this movie is definately entertaining. "}{"Title":"A Not-So-Straight Line","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Admittedly, I saw From Justin to Kelly and in the end of my review I will state why. While FJtK came out afterwards, this concept isn't anything new. Both used it, but unbelievably, this *Nsync Nightmare is actually, albeit slightly, better.What On the Line is, on the surface, mind you, is a romantic comedy of a love-lost boy trying to track down his soul-mate in the most ancient of ways in 2001 after one encounter during his commute. I bring up the year because this movie might have worked in 1981, but not in the internet-booming new millennium.Basically, Lance Bass' Kevin uses everything but what he needs, i.e. the net, to find the girl of his dreams. And we, the viewer, have to suffer through 85 minutes of his journey to know exactly how it will turn out. Even with a movie this short, it feels three times as long.So, beyond the sadly ironic title of On the Line because he doesn't know how to log online, the real tragedy here is Bass was never believable. Not for a moment. Granted it would be about half a decade later when he came out of the closet, you can absolutely tell throughout this movie that he is gay and he was not into women whatsoever. Obviously, watching this movie today we have the knowledge he's homosexual, but I believe if I saw this in 2001, I would know (no pun) straight-up he was gay.Just listen to how he talks about baseball, his character's passion, or how he looks and talks about women. There was zero chemistry between him and any of the opposite sex. And unfortunately for the movie, the secondary characters were just horrible individuals that spend most of the movie doing terrible things until they finally do the right thing. So, there were really no one to grasp or root for.The movie's only, and I mean ONLY, saving grace was the end credits. Again, even at very short 85 minutes, I was so frustrated with the film, I turned it off immediately as the credits rolled only to have to turn it back on then as I write this thanks to a certain podcast that told me about the additional irony in this film. Justin Timberlake and his other *Nsync co-boy-wonder pretend to be gay for a fake making of makeup scene. Actually, it's a wonder if they were trying to help their friend come out sooner or if they even knew about Bass. Most likely they did know about Bass being gay, but it didn't work as Bass wouldn't enter the real world for years later.Either way, it's not worth watching the whole movie for. Even though I liked some of the music, just stream the tracks ON(the)LINE and save another 70-80 minutes you'll never get back.* * *Final thoughts The podcast I referred to was the fantastic How Did This Get Made? I love listening to them, but you really have to see the movies first to fully enjoy their critique of the films they cover. So, yeah, they did, indirectly, make me watch two movies I had hoped never to see On the Line and the (lesser remake) From Justin to Kelly. At very least, I was entertained when I listened to their take. "},{"Title":"Not just an *NSync Movie","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  First off I am an NSync fan, but that is not why I went to see this movie. With that aside...I was pretty impressed with the movie.It had a great story and actors to portray it.  Lance Bass is great as the hopeless romantic and Joey Fatone as the hilarious wanna-be rocker.  In my opinion both actors have a great start at what should be a long successful career if or when NSync comes to an end.  Emmanuelle Chriqui was just as impressive in her part as the sought after perfect girl and GQ is absolutely hilarious as Kevin's smart-allick friend.As for the movie itself, it was maybe a little too pre-teenly geared for me, but that is easily overlooked when considering the other adult-related content.  But I really think it has something that all ages and genders (yeah YOU guys) can appreciate.It is really disappointing if anyone casts this movie aside just because it is The NSync movie, because that isn't it at all.  15 minutes into the movie you don't even think about Kevin and Rod being in...what's the group's name again?However, I was very disappointed that Jerry Stiller didn't have a bigger part and with all the not-so-hidden advertisements (hello Pepsi and Frosted Flakes).But all in all I really think this is a great start for Lance as an actor and movie producer.  A Happy Place has a great stepping-stone.Good Job guys!!  "},{"Title":"Just 90 minutes of good fun","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I went to this movie, like a few others I expect, ready for a good laugh at the expense of some non-actors and pretty much sure it was going to suck dead bunnies through a straw.  I left this movie juiced by how wrong my expectations were.  It's no Oscar winner by any means, but it's definitely not terrible. I thought it was cute, funny, and basically a great way to just lay back and let my brain relax after midterms.  Joey's a natural (though I get the sense that's more a result of the fact he basically plays himself in this movie) and Lance is't atrocious )  Emanuelle and Lance have believable chemistry..a.nd hey, mucho Al Green...what more could you ask?  "},{"Title":"On the Line--N*Sync's first movie attempt!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  ***possible spoilers?*** Okay, so I just got out of the theater from seeing On the Line about half an hour ago, and let me say, the reason I wanted to see it was because it starred Lance Bass. I'll be the first N*Sync fan to admit that I disliked their style but found Lance incredibly attractive, so much so that later I grew to like their music! ANYWAY, I think the movie was great, but that Joey Fatone's character was a little annoying, and he farted a lot of the time.. CQ's character was a little too hyper, and could have fit into the movie Half Baked as well as On the Line.. And the third friend, Randy (I forgot the actor's name) was a pure copy of Finch from American Pie (the one with the obsession of Stifler's mom).. But other than that, (oh, and if you ignore the heavy rock songs by Joey Fatone) it's a good movie.Still, I think someone should e-mail Justin and tell him he didn't belong in the movie, although I *DO* enjoy the gay hair stylist scene at the end... That's an Oscar nomination-worthy performance, if you ask me! That goes for Chris, too. And no one missed the Non-N*Syncer, J.C. No one even noticed he was missing until I realized that I'd only seen four of the boys. Anyway, Lance does a great job, and the roles of David Foley and Jerry Stiller add top names (sort of) to the film, but don't overshadow the new actors) All in all, great job, guys, I'd give Joey three stars and Lance four and a half! D "},{"Title":"Not So Good.","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Got a free pass and did not know who was in the movie nor what the movie was about. As a result I ended up counting the minutes until it was over. Perhaps if you are a teenage girl who just loves the backstreet boys or n'sync or whoever is in this movie could be for you, but with really bad acting and an unoriginal plotline I would not bet on it. I just wish studios would consult me before making films like this so I could save them money.  "},{"Title":"On the Line may not be the 'N Synch movie, but we know what audience it caters to.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  On the Line is the greatest film to star a musician since Blue Hawaii. Don't remember Blue Hawaii? Exactly. This film may not revolve around the music of the insanely popular boy band, but it caters to the same audience. In this story, Lance Bass (of 'N Synch) is Kevin Gibbons, the chronically date-impaired ex-rocker turned corporate adman. Kevin is now mocked daily by his friends for being the guy who blew it with his dream girl back in high school. Kevin, now 27, is about to get another chance. Kevin meets Abbey (Emmanuelle Chriqui, Detroit Rock City) on the `L' train in Chicago, and they mesh like... two cute people meshing. Kevin, the dweeb, fails to get her name and number before they part. It's an abused plot of boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy comes up with ludicrous way of winning girl back.After Kevin's slip-up on the L, he decides to flyer the city of Chicago. A newspaper gets a hold of Kevin's story, and takes an active role in spreading to the city just how pathetic Kevin is. It works magnificently and, soon enough, Kevin is inundated by calls from girls claiming to be `the one.' Meanwhile, at work, Kevin is under the gun for a Reebok ad that his partner steals the credit for. A slip-up leads to a tongue lashing from his boss Higgins (Dave Foley, News Radio). While responding to Higgins' rant, Kevin accidentally gives his friends the go ahead to turn his love life into a dating game. Kevin's friends Rod (Joey Fatone), Eric and Randy proceed to take the impostor L train girls out on dates, most of which end catastrophically.New acting talents Gregory Qaiyum and James Bulliard play Eric and Randy, the ghetto boy and the preppy kid. Qaiyum (who prefers to be called GQ), gives the most enthusiastic performance of the crew, but loses points for interrupting Al Green in the credits. Bulliard, who looks like James Spader's younger Swiss brother, loses no points for not singing, but fails to make anything of his deadpan dialogue. Joey Fatone lends a strong comedic presence to the film, and sings some decent rock covers too. Bass' character doesn't have the slapstick to fall back on, and the character of Kevin often falls flat. It's the willingness of the 'N Synch boys to poke fun at themselves that makes On the Line bearable to watch. Rod falls a lot, and Kevin leads such an embarrassing life that you can't help but smile. If they had been playing athletes or Casanovas, they would have seemed laughably out of place.With a PG rating, we know what kind of crowd this film was written for. When asked about his predictions for the public's response Bass states, `oh yeah, this is going to be known as the 'N Synch movie,' but he feels that it's not just for the fans. In fact, 'N Synch fans may be disappointed to discover that only two songs on the soundtrack are by the boy band. Relief may come from the other contributing musicians, which include BBMak, Vitamin C, Al Green, and Richie Sambora. A new solo song by Fatone, Ready to Fall, is also on the soundtrack. On the Line is a film starring musicians, who play characters that used to be musicians. While this may have been a safe play for the singers' movie debut, they didn't try very hard to avoid being typecast. This movie was built around the music.You've got to give Bass and Fatone a hand for their diligence. On the Line was filmed in both Chicago and Toronto, during the recording of their platinum album Celebrity. And it only took 32 days, which is the sign of a truly efficient filmmaker. As a producer, Bass roped in a few special guests. And yes, in case you were wondering, Chris and Justin have a cameo. Their ability to portray effeminate hairdressers is uncanny. As for JC, he must have been busy working on a solo album. That's not inside news, just wishful thinking. Directed by Eric Bross. Rated PG for fart jokes and beer.  "},{"Title":"The movie is the best yet.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie for all ages. It is funny, sweet and holds your attention from beginning to end. Besides just being lots of fun it is great seeing Lance and Joey having so much fun acting. I think parents will like this movie as much as kids. I have been lucky enough to see it and can't wait to go again and again and buy the sound track. "},{"Title":"This was strictly done for the money.","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Back in the day, I was a fan of the group NSYNC. And this movie starred two of their members Lance Bass and Joey Fatone. And I thought this movie was gonna be cute, but what I got was a very terrible movie.I'm pretty sure I don't have to say much on how terrible this movie is. The soundtrack of the movie was good, but the story was cheesy, the acting was horrendous, and everything about this movie was just terrible.If you like these kind of movies, that's fine. But if you wind up hating it, don't say I didn't warn you. Just skip this movie, and don't bother trying to discover this movie, you'll regret it if you do. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" While this film isn't Oscar gold, I dare say it was charming and enjoyable. Lance Bass' charisma shines through and most of the other cast was decent as well. Joey Fatone was hilarious as Rod.Jerry Stiller and Dave Foley make wonderful additions to the cast for both comedic and emotional value. To behonest, there were a few characters that I didn't enjoy as much as others, but that is okay. Don't be too overly critical of it. The extras are hilarious. If you get the DVD, you should watch them. The soundtrack is wonderful and after seeing the movie, I had to go and buy it. If a movie can make you sit down and forget about things for a little while, they've served their purpose. On the Line does just that. "},{"Title":"Worst I've seen","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Poor rip-off of Serendipity (Cusack/Beckinsale) featuring the non-talents of Lance Bass and Joey Falcone from NSync.  This movie is a crossover attempt by these two bubblegum stars trying to cash in on their teenage fans. Don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"So much Potential, but just God Awful.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The charming Lance Bass can do nothing to save this movie, even with help from N'Sync buddy Joey Fatone.  The best word to describe the movie is BORING.  It's not funny, it's very choppy, and you just want it to end. 1 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  OK, so it's not Oscar-winning material but it is tolerable if you like teen flicks! It's decent. Plus, I will admit that I'm a bit partial seeing that I'm in lust with Lance Bass. I must say that Emmanuelle Chiriqui wasn't all that great (and no, I'm not jealous.) If you like movies like Never Been Kissed, then go see this. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever!!!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I'll admit the only reason I watched this movie in the first place was because Lance and Joey were in it, and of course I knew it would be excellent, but it was sooo much better than I expected!!! Lance and Joey are excellent actors!!! I could barely breathe the whole way through the movie because I was laughing sooo much!!! One of the best scenes (although the whole thing is the best movie ever!) was when Higgins (Dave Foley) was talking to Kevin (Lance Bass) and then the woman from Reebok was on the phone and said Doesn't have any, and Higgins said Hello?, that was sooo funny!!! (You need to watch it to get it). Dave Foley was definitely one of the funniest actors in it!!! So in conclusion 'On The Line' is the best movie I've ever seen!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great movie! A must see!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Loved this movie!  I feel it was seriously wronged by the critics!  Great Performances by Bass and Fatone!  And must stick around for the end credits with the cameos by Kirkpatrick and Timberlake... too funny!  Don't have to be an 'NSYNC fan' to enjoy this film! "},{"Title":"My Comments on the movie 'On The Line'","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie is based on the classic love story. That's what i loved about it. I love watching love stories. Lance and Joey did a very good job for there first motion picture. (i think i said that cause *N Sync is one of my favorite bands! heehee!) but, it still was good. and I luved the movie! "},{"Title":"A movie that makes you believe that dreams can come true.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  It was well written and acted.  A lot of people wrote it off because they didn't believe that pop singers could act.  But I think they will prove the public wrong.  There are no words to explain this movie, it was that good. "},{"Title":"Get On the Line!","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I saw an advanced screening of this movie last weekend, and boy was I lucky.On the Line is just what I expected, a funny romantic movie. Its not your typical romantic comedy, I know people are going to be lame and give the movie a bad review because 2 'NSync members are in it(Boys, ya jealous much?) They probably won't even see the movie and give it a bad review, I know this cuz there is NO NEED for bad reviews on this film, its great.9/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is sheer torture","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" If ever IMDb needed a negative 10 this is the case. This movie is such a contrived piece of garbage in all aspects. Terrible acting, horrible stereotypes, sheer idiocy. If people in the United States actually like this movie it goes to show why the world hates the country. It goes to prove the creative forces of the United States are being put top such tawdry utility. This movie is an absolutely awful piece of rubbish, and made me seriously think about going POSTAL at random. Its that bad! Clichés a plenty and delight to the idiot teens who think this movie is good. And might I add that its the idiot country folk who think this movies good, just saying, America, this is you. "},{"Title":"Fun and entertaining film fluff","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit that when I started watching this film I began to think it was going to be a 'walk-out' experience. Ten minutes later I couldn't be dragged out of the seat I was in.On the line is a fun movie, it shows romance and love is alive, even in the fakeness of Hollywood (or Chicago). I like this movie, and want it on DVD...  9 flaps outta 10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Fantastic Romantic Comedy!!!","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  My wife and I were flipping through the channels last night and ended up on Encore's Love movie channel and this came on.  I had no clue about who the actors in the movie were (I'm nearly 30) but we started watching anyway as the plot sounded interesting.  The first thing to note is this movie is a sappy romantic comedy.  But there's a big emphasis I want to make on Comedy as much of the humor triggered laughter in both myself and my wife.It was definitely a great romantic comedy in my book.  You can't help but feel for the lead character as he searches for the girl he so perfectly connected with while commuting on the Chicago train/subway system.  The friends of the lead character are all funny yet also have some genuine likable qualities as well.  Great acting all around.Definitely give it a watch if you have the opportunity.  Just know what kind of movie it is an enjoy.  Who knows, maybe you'll catch it on Encore's Love movie channel like my wife and I did. "}{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Let me start off by saying that I didn't even know there were N*Sync boys (Backstreet Boys?) in this movie until I read the posts here. The ending credits make a lot more sense to me now. ;-)The movie itself was pretty decent, I thought. And that's coming from a heterosexual 25 year-old male. Yeah, it's geared towards women, but it's better than the average chick flick.The acting was decent. Nothing spectacular, but nothing that made me wretch in pain. And the story is just a twist on a hundred other movies that have been made, for better or worse. I wouldn't classify it as a vehicle for any of the actors, or their associated band.I guess my only real complaints are1) The product placement was absurd. The TV news had a huge MSN logo, the payphones had massive Verizon logos (even though Verizon isn't the phone company in Chicago...SBC/Ameritech is)2) The girl had a boyfriend who mysteriously disappeared. Did she break up with him? Did he fall on the L tracks? Is he still in that meeting days after the last mention of him? He seemed to be a pointless character. When she described him to her roommate, it sufficed. There was no need for him to be in the movie.3) What about the guy who wrote the article in the paper? Wasn't he mad that Kevin got what he wanted? Wasn't he mad that he lost his girlfriend to one of Kevin's friends? And did she break up with him? Again, more characters are introduced, but improperly.Unlike most people, I didn't pay any money to see this. It happened to be on one of the movie channels. If you see it, and liked movies like Serendipity, Sleepless in Seattle, etc., it's worth checking out.  "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie opening night (10-26-01) and again on Sunday (10-28-01) and it was awesome both times!  My friend saw it twice opening day, one with her three kids and her parents, and then with me and my friend and then me and my friend went again on Sunday.  This movie is sweet, cute, funny, romantic, and overall great.  Lance and Joey did awesome!  I give this movie a 10. For the people who didn't like it, just shut up, because it wasn't made for an older audience (who are the ones that do not like it too much).  The friend I went with twice to see it is 30 years old!  And the biggest *N Sync Fan that I know!  This is a great movie and I highly recommend it!  Great job Lance and Joey!  You guys rocked! "},{"Title":"Just a bit too much fluff","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Promising set up, attractive (but not TOO attractive) leads, a solid supporting cast, excellent technical work. . . . all with a screenplay that is made out of just a bit too much fluff.Fluff is good.  Too much fluff is bad.  Kevin lacks the un nice undertones to be believable-- even the best among us have some real flaws, not just a pseudo flaw of choking when dealing with the opposite sex.  Kevin is 99% pure fluff, and the attempt to make the character into a creative person fails because a creative person is more multi dimensional than pretty boy Kevin.  His friends are also painted in one or two dimensional strokes, and the Abbey role winds up painted so shallowly that it is difficult to conceive of why someone, even those as shallow as her fiancee and Kevin, would pursue her.Their instant connection soul mate behavior simply does not have enough questioning, enough basis for existing.  Even a child's balloon has more substance than what they created in their first meeting.  There has to be more than a smile, a list of presidents, or a love for a baseball team to make a connection.When it is finally revealed to him that he was betrayed, Kevin becomes violent toward a friend-- without really exhibiting anger, a perfunctory physical attack coming short of a playground fight.  The entire movie was surface gloss and fluff, but with the promise of meat and potatoes.I wanted to believe.Wish I could have.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly not god-awful","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I wanted to watch a pay-per-view movie, and so after two failed attempts at the excruciatingly slow-paced Mulholland Drive, I decided that I was willing to assign myself to an arduous task of watching a fluffy movie so as to at least catch some glimpses of Dave Foley.  Geez, I'm embarrassed to admit it, but I was sucked in and watched the entire movie.  I mercilessly mocked the concept of this movie when it first came out, but to my horror, I actually enjoyed many of its comedic moments.  I think it was refreshing because the young guys in this movie are not your standard, Hollywood sex fiends.  In fact, they managed to focus much of their entire lives on girls without even making any sexual innuendoes.  I think the lack of misogyny is what is immediately ingratiating about this movie.  I actually am blown away at Fatone's comedic ability, as I found myself cracking up many times at his oblivion.  Basically cliche is piled on top of cliche in this movie, but there are some surprisingly good comedic moments in the movie.  The pace is excellent, and in my opinion, the comedy way outshines the sappy romance. "},{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  What the hell?  What were they thinking when they wrote this?  It's just a pathetic excuse to have a movie with the guys from *N Sync in.  It's not funny and incredibly boring, which just seems to drag on and on until it gets to it's incoherent and sappy ending.  Some of the characters had no signifigant value to the plot of this movie.  The only reason why I got it was because I wanted to see how much Lance Bass and Joey Fatone suck at acting.  Well, they suck a lot.  Please do yourself a favor and do not rent this! "},{"Title":"As easy going, feel-good entertainment it's a winner","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" A guy meets a girl on a train and their personalities click, but he fails to get her name or phone number. So he embarks on a comic campaign to find her amongst the Chicago commuters. But the involvement of his hapless frat boy house mates, former schoolmates and employer threaten to derail the plan.The movie isn't sophisticated. There isn't much complexity to the characters or plot. Most people would describe it as a teen movie. But it is competently produced. I find it difficult to fault the acting - the actors are quite adequate for the type of film. The camera work and soundtrack are both good. If you're looking for an art movie, avoid this film. But as easy going, feel-good entertainment it's a winner! "},{"Title":"Wow...speechless!!","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" After seeing this movie for the first time, I was left completely speechless. If it weren't for the fact that I had laryngitis, I probably would have still been speechless.The twists and turns that this movie takes just left me on the edge of the aisle. (I sat on the aisle because the movie was packed with little girls who wanted to see Bill Cosby, but found out that this wasn't his movie...wow, they must have been disappointed due to the fact that Bill Cosby is in the Cosby family, and Lance Bass is in the Bass family...and last I checked, those are two different families, though I could, and probably am not, not incorrect.) But this movie was very gripping from the beginning, all the way to the end of the opening credits. I then had to go to the bathroom for the duration of the movie, but I could imagine it being the greatest movie in the history of the era of journalism meeting cavemen in a sea of rabid tigers.In terms of the acting, Lance Bass was very antidisestablishmentarianism, if that is a word. If it isn't, I would say that he was good. However, even though I am a huge fan of his, I would say that the good was not the good that you would say to a kid who cleaned up his room. But rather a good that you would say to a kid after he threw away your Mickey Mantle rookie card, in which case your good really meant bad. Thus, Lance Bass was basically a bass player for a bass farming fishery.In conclusion, this movie ranks up there with the all-time great movies, such as Fried Green Tomatoes, I Married an Axe Murderer, School Daze, and of course Lorenzo's Oil.If I had to watch this movie again, I would...and I did. I have seen it at least 2 times now. "},{"Title":"Bad but enjoyable","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I had heard about on the line before....people had said that this was one of the worst movies ever. So when at 2 o clock in the morning it came on the TV. I thought lets see how bad this is.But you know what...I don't think it was the actors that where bad it was the movie makers themselves. The plot was bad and so was the script. It was never gonna be Oscar winning but this film could of been something more. We had so many transient characters that there is no ending for them leaving people thinking.....what happened to Abbie's boyfriend or even the bad guy who went to school with Kevin....What the hell happened to these people did they just fall off the script. The plot did have the ending that the audience would of wanted but in the end u didn't care for these people...You just wanted this to end and thats a shame Cos lance and joey weren't the worst actors I have ever seen. all know Justin Timberlake was awful as a camp make up artist at the the end. Next time u watch this film don't let the movie makers get in the way "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says...","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was resistant to rent 'On The Line' basically because of it's bad reviews. 'On The Line' isn't the best film in the world and sure, it's not a contender but it's good fun and I would definatly reccomend it to any NSYNC fan. I'm not an NSYNC fan myself but I did enjoy it. There are some points in the film where you find it embaressing to watch seeing as Lance Bass isn't a very good actor. Joey Fatone has potential as an actor but not as one that should be taken very seriously - definatly not oscar worthy but all in all this movie isn't that bad, it's good fun to watch on a friday night with some friends. "},{"Title":"Craptactular","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  ?= The most unintentionally hilarious bad movie EVER made!!! Reviewer A viewer from Dana Point, CA United States Lance Bass makes a stunningly awful debut in this stupefying waste of celluloid and is thoroughly unconvincing as a human being. His character is a virtual protozoa whose mindless pitch (Girlz on the Move) for Reebok is stolen by Bee Autch (Tamala Jones). Joey Fatone, on the other hand, is completely convincing as an A-hole who can't sing, likes to pick the underwear out of his ass hole and screws over his friends whenever he feels like it. Lance's sub-friends include a character only worth calling Tourette (he APPEARS to have the disease but is basically ugly and unshaven) and an unsurprisingly out-of-place preppie (or, if you prefer, Abercrombie & Fitch catalog model reject). We're unsure who portrays Abbey because she looks different in every scene. Sometimes she's Asian, sometimes Hispanic, sometimes Australian, sometimes Canadian (!)...well, MOSTLY Canadian, anyway. Sometimes she has a boyfriend, sometimes a lesbian roommate, sometimes her boyfriend is played by different actors in the same scene! Anyway, she looks like a sexually frustrated streetwalker waiting for a cigarette (preferably filterless) and her payment to be laid before her on the Ikea dresser. Speaking of which, incredibly, there is more product placement in this film than MR DEEDS or MAC & ME (classic '80s kiddie pic, if you're a MST3K fan, anyway). Pepsi, McDonalds, beer (too many kinds to name)...you'll have to suffer through the film if you want to hunt for them all! We now must mention the strange inclusion of Jerry Stiller as a gay copy room assistant and the poorly dubbed-over profanities, which is sometimes done by non-English speaking actors! Lance is at his best during a scene where the director instructed him to use the copy machine and WITHOUT closing the lid! We can see only his hairline and forehead, which convey emotion much better than anything below that. We can't neglect to mention the lone moment of indie cinematography where it appears that human emotion is conveyed through the chain-link fence but then the moment fades and we're saddled with Lance's expressionless face once again. We liken it to being on the cusp of the Big O and then denied the opportunity to realize it. In all fairness, this movie provided more unintetional laughs than GLITTER and CROSSROADS combined.(Note how Maraih's hairstyle conveys mood, tone, feeling, and conflict)Anywhoo, writing this review has been intensley cathartic for me and mine. Much love to the many actresses who played abbey P.S. Notice how on the blurb on the the back the intro says He met Abby (the love of his live) but didn't hear her name- Hello her name is abbey you just said it. I have a creeping suspicion that LAnce is responsible for this tag line and I also suspect he is illiterate. My favorite moment however is when highschool Lance hallucinates and his shirt flies off and we hear his inner monologue describe how his armpits are sweating(yet another example of ON THER LINEs Oscar quality writing). In close second for my favorite moment is the inspired scene where Kevin/Lance(the script used both names Lance got confused and tried to hide from the cameras)puts himself on the line to find his girl. But in reality,he made a poster(Very on the line-risquee in my opinion i better stop before i get to the old lady who never gets laid "}{"Title":"Innocent and Enjoyable Family Movie","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This was an enjoyable movie for everyone...at least for the ladies out there!!  I watched it with my teenage daughter and although it wasn't outstanding, it proved to be easy to watch and certainly viewable for all ages.  My rating would be more like 5/10. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies!!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Just saw this movie on Pay-Per View, I loved it!!Very cute film. Joey was pretty funny and Lance did pretty well. This is one of my favorite movies~.  Loved the music, loved the thing with Chris & Justin at the end. "},{"Title":"Oh, it hurts...","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Ouch... being an NSYNC fan, I was hoping that some miracle would make this film worthwhile... I never believed in miracles, anyway. This was nearly painful to sit through and the only thing that kept me there was Joey Fatone, cause quite frankly, he's gorgeous. The only truly enjoyable parts of this atrocity of a film was when Joey got on stage and sang Def Leppard's Pour Some Sugar On Me and the very very end where Chris and Justin are acting blatantly gay.  Anyway, if you can endure the torture of it all just for the 2 cute guys, go for it, but otherwise, don't waste your time. Use that hour and a half of your life on something that contributes to society. Luckily, Joey redeemed himself and proved his acting abilities in My Big Fat Greek Wedding. Thank goodness. On a positive note, On the Line would make a great torture device if you're trying to get something out of someone. "},{"Title":"Oh my word","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Oh my god. I have seen some pretty terrible movies in my time but this one takes the biscuit. The reason I watched it was because I happened to come across it in IMDB and the comments were positive. But please...if anyone is reading this thinking whether to watch it or not....save yourselves now.The story is actually really interesting. However why the directors chose to put pop bad members in the cast is beyond me. The only good thing about it was the lead actress. I hope she does well because having starred in this movie she deserves some compensation.And who was that guy with the baseball cap? Why was he pretending to be black? I didn't get it.Anyway, thank god this movie didn't make it to the UK...had it done so I'm sure there would have been riots. "},{"Title":"original hardly...","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  oddly, this movie shares its main female star Chriqui and main plot with 100 girls (2000). furthermore, 100 girls did a better job with storytelling. I found the novelty of N'sync's appearence fairly lame. Stay away from this one if you can. - "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen!","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so horrible! I wanted to leave right away! I was only laughing because Lance Bass and Joey Fatone CANNOT act! And come on are you really going to be that obsessed with a girl! GET A LIFE!!!!! And when you hear him sing in the movie he doesn't sound very good. I was literally falling sleep!I would rate this movie * out of ****P.S. Do not make another movie with Lance or any of the other N'Sync band members! They cannot act. And Lance please please please just stick with singing forever!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Not good at all!! Oh, what a bad flick!!","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  There's more than one thing wrong with this movie. I saw it 'cuz I'm in chorus, and before one of our concerts, we were stuck in a room, and they made us watch this peice of dog doo. This wasn't good at all! It wasn't even funny, or touching, not even romantic!!!!! The directing and editing are pitiful, the acting is just plain bad. No one falls in love that quickly, not even if it's love at first sight. And now, what I'm gonna nag most about, the casting. WHY ARE THEY PUTTING BOY BAND LITTLE TEENYBOPPERS IN THE SPOT WHERE A REAL ROCK STAR SHOULD BE!! HUH!?!?!?! Jeez, acting as though they're some kind of rock stars, my butt. I would've liked to see Chester Bennington, Daron Malakian,Jonathan Davis, Lars Fredrikson, Jay Gordon, Tom DeLonge, Billy-Joe Armstrong, Sully Erna, Jeez, even Corey Taylor or Chad Gray or Marilyn Manson, in the main parts. Why? Because they're REAL ROCK STARS. They are the real musicians!!! And if any of you Teenies don't know who they are, I suggest you buy some real albums, because the way this movie acted, as though pop was real music or something.I'm only thirteen, I'll admit, but god, I don't throw myself at boy bands!Some people say it's a sin I listen to the music I do, but my mom says she happier having me listen to metal than pop crap. Sorry, I know it's a movie forum, but come on. The movie sucked, even if there was a good cast or good acting.  Me and my friend were practically hissing at the screen, not 'cause of N'sync, that was just one of the factors, but the movie just ripped, the main characters had no chemistry whatsoever!! I wouldn't beleive it for a minitue. I hated having to watch it. So predictable. I don't recommend it.  "},{"Title":"horrible acting, horrible plot","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Aside from the horrible acting, and horrible plot, and the fact I fell asleep in the theatre, the movie was okay (I'm being sarcastic).  Like said before, pop groups should stick to singing, and not try to branch out as artists, because they aren't really artists to begin with.  They are entertainers, and there is absolutly nothing wrong with that, but don't claim to be otherwise.  For NSYNC fans, the movie was probably fun to see because of its cast, but for people who aren't die hard fanatics, do not waste your time. "},{"Title":"Bad movie, but great actor...","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The movie itself was okay in my opinion, I think that for all the Nsync fans, it was probably wonderful to them.  But I think that Richie Sambora did an excellent job in portraying the character Mick Silver, he looks great on the big screen as well as on the stage! "},{"Title":"surprisingly well-acted!","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I just saw the film and instantly liked it. It's just right up my alley a light-hearted romantic comedy. At first, I wasn't sure I'd like it, what with two members of 'N SYNC in it (as you might have surmised, I'm not a really big fan of the group). But surprisingly, Bass and Fatone get the job done. They are both tremendously talented individuals. The female lead is also quite good. All in all, I'd give the movie a 9 out of 10! "}{"Title":"Hmmmmmm...","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The movie was...what i expected...kinda!Yes, i'll admit it....i am..shhhhh...an Nsync fan...but unlike some...its purely musical. Its a funny thing to know that you're the ONLY PERSON of legal age that has chosen to go to this film...and not have to accompany a group of teenagers...but...so be it. First off...i dont believe for a second that cliched line of musicians cant make it in acting...umm, hello??...who do u think pulls it off in their music clips??...acting doubles??...Lance has mastered ( and even better then some professional actors that have been in the game for years..) the screen face..the boys knows how to show emotion in his facial expressions...speaking..is another story...little more practice and he'll be game on. Joey, well...i kinda expected him to blow me away...all i got was a whisper!! I kinda feel like he down played himself in this film ( something i feel that he probably does a lot)...dont take the title supporting actor so seriously! Supporting is one thing, giving a half assed job so as to not - outshine- the boss is another...so..do i really need to outline the story??..boy finds girl, loses girl and finds her again...its...pretty straight forward really. Personally...i'd wait till its out on video to see it, but...its your money...the closing credits are pretty funny though..ohh and the moans and groans of heartbroken future Mrs Bass' during the kissing scene are too....oh Lance...how could u??....hehe...HAHAHAHAHAHA "},{"Title":"And the movie of the year is....","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  anything but On the Line. Okay, before all *NSync fanatics kill me (btw, I'm am a closet fan), hear me out! Cute storyline, I admit, but Joey, I feel, was the only true highlight of the movie. His acting is superb, something I can't picture if he didn't provide the actual visual in the movie.Lance, as always, needs some work. Kevin is too much like Lance for us to see the lack of Lance's acting ability.As for the rest of the cast, Jerry (Stiller) and Dave (Foley) are still funny, but the script didn't give them a chance to give their best performances.The other two guys (GQ and whoever played Randy) didn't real have much to work with either. GQ had more of a storyline, but no one really got to know anyone else except Kevin and Abby.As for Emmanuelle, cute.... but personally reminds me of my boss.... okay, off the subject.... forget it.... She did an okay job.In short its cheesy but cute.... not really worth the money to go to...Okay, that's my story and I'm sticking to it. If you enjoy it more power to you. I love the theme song and Joey's character, but Lance still needs to get his butt kicked. "},{"Title":"I've seen rotten movies in my day...","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I've seen rotten movies in my day, but this takes the cake.  It has no point and the characters are either losers or just plain perverts. Its a shame that a good actress such as Emmanuelle Chriqui has to be in this movie and be in it with a man that can't act whose is Lance Bass.  Not even fans of Nsync would enjoy this movie, it's a disappointment and a waste of 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"personal opinion","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  While On The Line is, by most standards, a bad movie there IS a reason I saw it five times so far.  Yes it lacks continuity, yes it has plot holes, yes it has bad editing; but its such a GREAT movie!  Its easy to get into and easy to understand.  I absolutely loved this movie! "},{"Title":"Red hot!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"   I am a huge Nsync fan, but when I found out two of the members were starring in this movie, I assumed it was going to suck.... but I was totally wrong! This movie was romantic and funny! Joey was incredibly funny and Lance fit the part just perfect! The whole cast was wonderful and I think the movie is a big hit! The musical performances were hot and this movie is definitely worth seeing! Go see it now! "},{"Title":"Bad Script, Promising Acting","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  As we all know on Friday October 26th the theatres were swarming with pre-teen/adolescent girls all waiting to see On The Line. I endured and survived the bombardment and shockingly enough was quite pleased. Being a fan and over 17 (gasp! what a shocker) I wasn't expecting Oscar nominations but a mere good time... and that's exactly what I received. The movie in itself was cute and comical, highlighting parts as Joey belting out 'Pour Some Sugar On Me' and Lance break dancing. But not everything can be perfect as the young ones would like to think. Who in the world wrote that script?! OK some of the stuff wasn't bad but the rest of it was just disappointing. If you are going to make a feature film add some depth for crying out loud. And the editing! Whoever did the editing needs to be shot. Many don't know that this film was originally suppose to be rated R and it's not hard to see why. Any moron who wasn't blind could read the characters lips and what they were actually saying. Props for producing a half-way decent PG movie though, I was beginning to think they had become extinct. As for acting both Lance and Joey show promising skills. Give the boys a half way decent script and I think they'll gain much more recognition that they do deserve. Add in their killer smiles and we could even be talking Oscars... well, maybe. All in all if you want to see a clean, fun movie with tons of laughs check out On The Line. "},{"Title":"Nothing to Write Home About","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Admittedly, I went into On The Line expecting the worst simply because of the N'Sync connection.  Upon leaving the theater there were mixed opinions. In one case, I could relate to the main character, played by Bass, in the experiences he faced both on the job and in his personal life.  There was also recognition in his quest for the one girl who he connected with in a matter of minutes.  Having met and then lost that someone who you just KNEW you had to be with.  Those simple points saved what could have been a complete bomb of a movie.  Everything else, however, including the poor, POOR acting ruined it. I couldn't sit still because I was so distracted by how horrible the three friends were (acting-wise) and especially over the way moronic semi-side-story involving the guy who wanted revenge for a girl turning him down.  What the heck was that all about?  I don't know. Anyways, On The Line isn't a must-see movie, nor is it on the top of my to ever see again movies.  But it was a decent hour+ spent on a weekday with nothing else to do.  "},{"Title":"A feel good movie, If it's your bag.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I am a self proclaimed *N SYNC fanatic. I love Lance. At 18 years old, it seems almost pathetic that I liked this movie. It has a very happy-go-lucky feel to it, that includes a little romance, and some very bad fart jokes. If you like chick-flicks, pop music, and can tolerate the lack of plot and good acting for an hour and a half, it really is a great movie. It leaves you happy, and satisfies the teeny-bopper in all of us. The acting and plot are weak, but as long as you are prepared and are not expecting an Oscar worthy film, you won't be dissapointed. Things to watch out for The hundreds of 11 year olds in the theatre fighting over who will be the next Mrs. Lance Bass, and Lance's pathetic attempts to break dance. "},{"Title":"Miramax should be ashamed of themselves","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I didn't think a romantic comedy could get more ridiculous than Serendipity, but Miramax has pulled it off.  In a span of a mere 22 days, Miramax has managed to release two of the most contrived romantic comedies in recent memory.  Please no more.I understand that this movie is aimed at that 'N Sync audience with the PG rating and the completely boring storyline, but jeez, they could have at least made it somewhat funny.  Have you ever heard the expression mess you over?  I haven't either, but it was used twice in this movie in place of screw you over.This movie was so cheap that they couldn't even get the lips to match the words coming out of the actor's mouths.  I think the studio thought some of the language was inappropriate for a PG flick, so they simply dubbed different words in place.  There were a couple times where it was obvious the dubbed over words didn't match.  Couldn't they have reshot these scenes? Or at least cut to a different angle?Of course there is the element that thinks that Lance and Joey are cute and anything they do is worth watching.  These same fans would probably be happy watching Lance and Joey scrubbing toilets.  The vast majority will find nothing worthwhile in this movie.  It's just not there.  I watch these kinds of movies just to laugh at them, not with them. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" WELL I am 38 and I watched the movie today.. I MUST say its great and lots of youngsters should watch it .. AT the end when Kevin is at the station and ITS 7.10.....And she had not come I swear I had tears rolling down my face..And even why she met him he asked her for her name and number ...It was nice to know that in this wonderful world that we live in there's still some guys and girls who don't even ask each other their names on that first meeting...Cause till today no woman has ever made me wait or even left me...I wish I COULD find a woman who could make me cry ......because she has hurt me or left me ..where is she..LOL "}{"Title":"Sappy.......But I Liked It","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Lets get this out of the way first, Lance Bass CANNOT ACT. That aside, this movie was really frustrating, I just wanted the two to get together already......I loved Emmanuelle Chriqui she is gorgeous and very down to Earth I think shes great and going to be a big star one day.The other Nsync star Joey was pretty good I thought, much better than Lance, I just wanted to slap him out a few times.Overall a very sappy movie...........but i fell for it.It had to be Emmanuelle....she was great....absolutely fantastic. I recommend this movie to all those hopeless romantics out there that are suckers for sappy stuff like this.  "},{"Title":"Lots Of Fun","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie. It is pure good fun. A Perfect Date movie. It's a story about finding the right person and not giving up. We have all met someone at some point in our lives and have enjoyed talking to them and have forgotten to get their names. Well this is a story about a guy who had done just that. Lance Bass and Joey Fatone prove that not only are they great singers but they can act too. I recommend this movie to anyone who is a romantic and enjoys a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Corny.  Very, very corny","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" I remember when the film was released, it was tied to the popularity of 'N Sync and attempted to capitalize on that. I must admit, Joey Fatone shows the charisma which enabled him to convincingly carry off a role in My Big Fat Greek Wedding and as a host of a game show on TV now. Lead Lance Bass, however, has all the energy of a wet fish and really does not seem committed to convincing the audience that he is plausible as a romantic lead. (Quite apart from the fact that it turns out he is gay....it has nothing to do with his romantic chemistry or lack thereof) Anyway, the N Sync guys all seem like nice guys, but this is not the best film. I was glad to see Al Green in the film and Dave Foley is a welcome addition to any cast, but his brown-haired friend seemed unconvincing and rather manic and his other preppier friend seemed as though he had stumbled on this acting part by accident, so passionless was he. Emanuelle Chiriqui seemed charismatic enough in the small part made possible for her and it foreshadowed her prominent role in HBO's Entourage. Some of the most cringe-inducing bits were the supposed enthusiasm of Chicagoans for the successful resolution of Kevin (Lance Bass)'s search for the girl (Chiriqui) who he had seen on the train but whose contact information he had not got. Having lived in big cities most of my life, I know that people would sooner stick a dull stake through their hearts than betray even the slightest emotion or make eye contact with someone on public transportation and yet when Kevin's attempt to connect with the girl who he had let get away becomes public, it is as though West Side Story or Oklahoma or some energetic musical has broken out in the movie and tired commuters all of a sudden have a deep passion for the success of a romance between two people they know nothing about. The speech by two of Kevin's friends in an attempt to gussy up interest for finding the One Who Got Away, on a subway train, which is half-hearted and hoaky anyway, and which receives applause runs counter to everything I have ever found taking public transportation in a large city. One would sooner walk to work on one's hands than give even the slightest recognition to someone who attempts to elicit public interest in anything, on public transportation. The goofy love-story, sure, some girls (and maybe some gay men who would looooove to meet Lance Bass) may enjoy and it is harmless, if hoaky. It was the depiction of public environments made to appear as carnival spaces which was the funniest and most implausible aspect of the film, for me. "},{"Title":"Chalk this up with the other singer turned actor horrors...","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Mariah has Glitter. The Village People have Can't Stop the Music. Britney Spears has Crossroads. Jennifer Lopez has The Wedding Planner, Enough, Gigli...you get the idea. I think it's become an inescapable law of physics that when any singer decides that they have the chops to become an actor, what results is an evil hybrid of inflated egos and Satanic afterbirth. Want more proof? Presenting On The Line, starring both Lance Bass and Joey Fatone. This is one of the most ridiculous movies I've ever seen, mostly because it assumes that these two boy band rejects can act in front of a camera. Joey's actually supposed to be a decent thespian, but you would have no idea just from watching this piece of filth. He just comes off as loud, annoying, and patently stupid. As for Bass, while a cute guy, he's not exactly Lawrence Olivier. He just looks uncomfortable throughout the entire film and it made me feel likewise. Then there's the incomprehensible story, which defies common sense and the idea that God loves his children. Yeah, the entire city just STOPS to read about pathetic Lance and his search for a girl he barely talked to for less then five minutes. And why is his story on the front page of every newspaper? Is it a slow news day EVERY DAY in this city??? I laughed out loud when the front page of one paper featured a huge color photo of Lance and his gal and at the bottom was a much smaller headline about the economy. Yeah, that's realistic. Oh, why am I even wasting my breath? This movie sucks hard, and no one should watch it unless they enjoy getting their brains damaged. 0/4 stars (P.S. Dave Foley, what are you doing here?!?!?! You were on Kids in the Hall, for God's sake!).  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie EVER seen!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is the worst movie i´ve ever seen. Stupid Actors, a stupid,boring,annoying,predictable and senseless story and a very bad soundtrack. A perfect combination for such a cruel movie!  I lost 90minutes of my life while watching this ugly piece of s*** . 1/10 ! "},{"Title":"This is the worst Movie I ever seen!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" Giving a chance to the pop movies, I rented it!!! I have seen love stories, I have seen teenage movies that actually are pretty good!!! But Oh my God this movie sucks!!!!!!!!! This N'Sync boys can't find a way to make money... that's way I think they did this awful movie... the story is pretty bad and give an incomplete plot because you never understand what is really happened in the feelings of the girl and the boy... the moment in the train is the most corny that I ever seen, this movie is so plastic!!!!!! Guys if you want to see a love movie watch THE NOTEBOOK!!! Movies that out of a good story even if it is corny, it leave a message in your heart! "},{"Title":"worst creative endeavor in history","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a pile of garbage, packaged in a glossy wrapper to distract you from the poor acting, predictable plot, lazy writing, overly trendy characters, unlikeable leads, etc.  I could go on and on, but the point is that this movie is so bad that it cannot be salvaged (unlike Showgirls which is so bad it is good) "},{"Title":"It's those eyebrows....","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  It's repulsive to me when I see singers trying to use their success as an excuse to try acting. It's like they look in the mirror and they see Marlon Brando staring back at them (because we're all drama kings and queens on the inside anyway), and since they have the money and influence, they decide to give acting a shot. So, parts that could have gone to rising stars go to singers with enough star power to attempt a shot at the Hollywood spotlight. A good idea? From what I have seen of singers-turned-actors, with the exception of Will Smith, the late Frank Sinatra, Jon Bon Jovi, and Kevin Max (of dc Talk), no singer has the business of trying to be an actor. Period. Bass and Fatone, AKA Lance and Joey, as they have been dubbed by all the users here writing about how amazing this film is (who, apparently, are on a first-name basis with NSync) fall into that category. Fatone mistakes characterization for making loud, obnoxious fart-noises, and Bass thinks that raising those big, bushy eyebrows and looking wide-eyed substitutes for boyish-charms. No, actually...there's no charm there. It's just boyish, Lance.Granted, if the movie had been any good, we could forgive Bass and Fatone's horrid performances (and Richie Sambora for that matter--a brillaint guitarist who needs to stick to the guitar) and focus on the intelligence of the script. Unfortunately, there's nothing here we haven't already seen before. The keeps missing each other by a split second plot is played up to the max (and I do mean MAX! Not one cliche is left unturned), as is the Hey, you're my best friend and you betrayed me by dating my girl! misunderstanding, which would, I am convinced, never be a subplot in a movie ever again if either party would just stick around and explain themselves. If my negative review isn't clear enough, that doesn't happen in this movie.It's a sad thing when you can watch a trailer to a film and have the movie figured out, down to the very t, before you walk into a movie. I'm one of those guys who likes to insist that films aren't cheap entertainment, but rather, an overlooked expression of art. Make a mental note Anyone who would ever attempt to prove my claim wrong could reference this film, and I would be helpless to reply. As far as the chick-flick genre goes, this one is near the bottom (Pearl Harbor being the VERY bottom of the list). As far as movies in general go, this one is beyond the bottom of the list, and is dangling somewhere in bad-movie hell, wondering what went wrong. Ironically, the same can be said for NSync's career about now, too.I can't help it....I'm going to say it...Forgive me, but I cannot resist To On the Line I say....BYE BYE BYE!!!!Sorry.1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of this year","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  On the Line, where do I begin. This film is horrible, unappealing, dog s*** tripe.  How's that as a start?In the beginning of October a movie called Serendipity came out that had a concept like this, with a guy who looses a girl when he really liked her and isn't able to find her, but not in the way you think, I mean more intentionally.  On the Line is like that.  Remember when in the days of Ed Wood when his movies were shown in theaters and when people saw them they threw things at the screen and yelled at it and cursed at it and such, I felt like doing that while watching On the Line.Because while watching this movie I realized that romantic comedies should be buried, or maybe even cremated, without a wake or funeral.  Or, at least these type of romantic comedies, the types where beautiful people (they chock a lot of them in this movie) keep on being apart from one another, not because they want to be apart, but because of scripts that smell like they came out of the dumpster in the poor section of town in Calcutta (and have been written by the elite screenwriters of Hollywood).  The plot is something that I'll try to go through here- Lance Bass (ughh) of NSync (double Uggh from the guys) is an ad exec who meets a girl on a train (Emmanuele Chriqui who is actually rather admirable) and then just as they seem like they like each other a lot, Bass breaks it off and retreats back to his lair with his miscreant roommates- one of them another Nsync guy Joey (the fat guy to all you guys).I felt like screaming after seeing this movie, as I'm sure some of the smart people who wander into this drek will feel like doing, and even bad movie buff fans will want to hurl during the scenes that are meant to be cute and funny.  Please, please, beware.  F- (my first one folks) "},{"Title":"Another Low","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Another low in American culture. By Hollywood placing two members of a relatively mediocre music group (Lance Bass and Joey Fatone of nysnc) into this already poor film is offensive and makes me feel ashamed to support many of Miramax's other films. I cringed just watching it. The writing, the direction, and especially the acting were all absolutely horrid. Anyone who can honestly admit that they liked this film needs either some heavy medication or a good ol' lobotomy. "}{"Title":"Epic portayal of post-modernist romance","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  The 2001's opus On The Line is clearly one of the gripping romantic comedies of our time. The cellioud itself is iconoclast, redefining itself and the genre as a whole. In film we have a man who is seperated from his would be lover via the manical train (representative of man's conflict with nature and his own increasing modernaization in the late capitalist model). In turn Fatone's character must search to  reclaim his lost love, but just as they appear to be reunited larger symbollic structures will keep them apart. For instance a large glass pane, (a nod to Freuds Id, and dismantling of the mirror stage, for through this glass, Fatone sees not himself but his lover, an analysis of both the social construction of self, and the dialouge of co-dependency). Will they end up in passionate union? Rent it and get TURNED ON THE LINE A brilliant piece of Shaduenfrueden.  "},{"Title":"Funny Stuff","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  So, this movie was a romantic comedy.  Personally, I found the comedy extremely entertaining.  The fake farts, Dave Foley, the little bit during the credits, people getting hit...  The romance, not so much.  The acting, not so much.  The script, not so much.  Still, I will always love the comedy in it all. "},{"Title":"maybe a 12 year old girl would like this","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  If you are over 12, don't waste your time watching this. This movie is unoriginal and obviously made for the pre-teens since the 2 leads are from NSYNC.  And the product placement just made a bad film awful. From the first 5 minutes when I saw the kid holding McDonald's french fries, I knew this was going no where fast.  I kept looking for Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks to show up since this is basically Sleepless in Seattle/You've Got Mail.  The only character that shows promise is Joey Fatone's, which is hard for me to believe since I don't really think he's got anything in NSYNC.  And Abby and Kevin never had enough screen time together to see if they had any chemistry. Not to mention, we never find out what happened to her boyfriend. Did she ever dump him?FINAL VERDICT  If you are looking for a cheesy pre-teen romance, then this is right up your alley. Otherwise, you probably should avoid this unless you are looking for some zzz... "},{"Title":"Bad bad Machine romantic comedy","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  I'm very much into this kind of movie. But this is the worst of the Machine produced mass type flicks ever.Every Meg Ryan formula movie has more heart and ideas than this one. I did not expect much but was still disappointed.The romance part does not work because you don't care for the characters. They are flat and off the rack. After an initial buildup with a bare minimum of depth everything is cut loose to advance the story with what should be perceived as comedy but fails.After recently seeing Serendipity (which is by no means great but has a heart and you actually care about the characters) which also features the romantic quest about destiny and finding the right girl after a chance meeting, this one is a sure looser in every aspect.I hoped for Emmanuelle Chriqui to be in a better movie, 100 Girls featured her in a much more interesting role but I think at least for her there is hope for a better future - for this movie the only hope is to be soon forgotten. "},{"Title":"....zzz....zz...zz...z.z.z.z..z","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"   ... hey I'm awake, I'm awake. Well anyway, as for the movie, On The Line is a boring and predictable romantic comedy aimed right at the pre-teen crowd. Does it succeed as a film on that level? Kind of. On any other level? Not at all.     But I will say this I've seen films that were much worse than this, but I'll name some of those in a bit, first here's a brief review of the film.    Lance Bass is not too bad, and Joey Fatone is passable, the rest of the cast is not all that good though no one is overally irritating. The story and plot are simple yet full of holes, but at least the film goes by quick. But those who don't care for N*Sync, will likely be lulled into a deep sleep.    Now for the most part though it is a bad film, but now I'm going to list some that are much worse. Now in no particular order, they are, The One, 3000 Miles To Graceland, Just Visiting, Original Sin, Rat Race, Freddy Got Fingered, Monkeybone, Scary Movie 2, Domestic Disturbance, 13 Ghosts, Exit Wounds, Ghosts of Mars, The Fast And The Furious, Tomb Raider, Glitter, The Musketeer, Megiddo Omega Code 2 and Soul Survivors.  There that's a good amount of films that are worse than On The Line. Mind you it's still a bad movie, but not nearly as bad, as those listed above. * out of 4 stars.   "},{"Title":"Absolute low point in movie history...","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  How much more so-called musicians do we have to endure in the movie theaters? It's getting worse with every film, I thought Busta Rhymes ridiculous role in HalloweenResurrection was the low point, but alas no, I got the awful On The Line at the English language sneak preview last night and it was just a nuisance (I have to carefully avoid the real and rightful words I use here...). The story was very familiar and it was told bad as can be! I last saw this story done well in Serendipity (spelling?), but this one had actors in it, while On The Line was nothing but a blown up video clip that should rot on MTV not at movie theaters - Nuff Said!I give this 1 of 10 stars, but only since 0 is not possible... "},{"Title":"just an awful attempt to keep their teenybopper images intact","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  the only real reason I saw this was because I won tickets to go to the premeire in New York(long story,don't ask). It was okay because Bass, Fatone, and the guy with the bad hair, J.P or something of the sort, were present. So were most of the actors in the movie. Anyway, it was okay for me because everyone in the theater was unison with the laughter and cheers. But the NBC movie reviewer that sat behind me said that he hadn't seen such an awful movie in a while. I thought it over too and I do have to agree with him. The plot's weak and the acting needs some work. It's a cheap knockoff version of serindipty. I would warn you to never see this movie. Don't even consider seeing it.    "},{"Title":"Not Worth Your Hard Earned Money","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":"  Hope you get this movie as a gift because if you have to spend your money to see it you will be very upset.  This movie was very stupid and not worth my time.  I saw it because at the time I was obsessed with *NSYNC, and I don't know why.  Lance Bass cannot act.  There, I said it.  Now teenyboppers everywhere will hate me.  But it's true.  He has no acting skills.  Joey Fatone Jr. acted better than Lance, and maybe that was because Joey was playing more of a funny character, and in real life Joey is a comedian too.  But poor Lance, he just stunk up the screen.  If you saw Never Been Kissed you basically saw this movie because both have the same type of plot and the same type of ending.  So yes, this movie is a waste of time and money.2/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing to Rave About, But Not Terrible.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Romance","Review":" On the Line is an okay movie that is somewhat entertaining and enjoyable to watch. Lance Bass and Joey Fatone (two of the guys from N'Sync) did a fairly well job for one of their first theatrical films. Also Emmanuelle Chrique did  good  in her role as Abbey. The movie did get a little boring at times, but it also had some humor and laughs. On the Line is an okay movie that is an enjoyable movie to watch. I give it a 6 out of 10. "}]