[{"Title":"Ignore the critics, this one is a warm, light-hearted, feel-good film for the entire family.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, folks, I've read almost every comment on here regarding this movie, and all I can say is... some of you just haven't got a clue.  No, it's not a blockbuster comedy, but it wasn't intended to be.  So, OK, clearly, this movie isn't for everyone... well, there isn't any movie made that appeals to EVERYONE, no matter how good it is.  The point is this This movie was very enjoyable.  It does not try too hard, it makes you love or hate the characters appropriately, has a nice, fun (albeit somewhat simple) story, and is all around a nice, light-hearted film that the entire family can enjoy together.  If you're not into family movies, then skip this one, otherwise, I definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Sweet little movie.","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nothing wrong with this movie really. I don't think people treat this movie fairly. It's a sweet little entertaining comedy, that is not hilarious but at all time a pleasant one to watch.Normally director John Pasquin really doesn't make great comedies but I think I can say that this is a good movie and probably easily his best.Yes, of course the movie has morals in it that are bittersweet and make the movie also predictable. Nevertheless, I think the movie delivers its messages well and not so much in a preachy kind of way. It helps the messages of the movie come across and therefor the movie is an effective one.As a matter of fact; everything in the movie works out quite well. This includes the love-story, the movie its dramatic elements and the characters themselves. The movie is a good balance of fun and entertainment and some more serous and dramatic family plot-elements, that of course never divert from the movie its fun and pleasant elements.Not too much about the story really, it's actually kind of silly and hard to believe but it serves as a good basis for the movie to tell its story. The characters and actors in the movie are definitely good enough to make the movie more fun and entertaining to watch. Tim Allen fits the role and the movie has a great supporting cast with actors such as Greg Germann, Patrick Warburton and James Belushi in some good and fun comedy roles.It's easily a movie I would watch again.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not Tim Allen's best effort,but watchable","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film contains a nice little blend of comedy,and heart touching warmth,with Tim Allen starring as a somewhat meek and timid office executive,who often gets stepped on and overlooked.After getting knocked down by the company bully in front of his young daughter,he decides to toughen up and make the world take notice.This is a cute story with a good message about not forgetting the most important things in life. This isn't Tim Allen's best effort,but the film is watchable enough. Lending good support are Jim Belushi as an ex-movie actor/martial arts instructor,and Julie Bowen,who always seems to lend a nice touch to a film(I recalled her from Happy Gilmore),as the love interest.Good film,but don't look for greatness. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming, funny movie!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That this movie didn't do better than it did at the box office is more an indictment on our culture at large than on the film itself. Genuinely funny (as much as is appropriate for family, sans some the language), it portrays in a simple way a simple message that, while change and growth are good things, they shouldn't come at the expense of being yourself. If I could have advised Meg (played by the always-alluring Julie Bowen), I would tell her that she's right about the big fight between Joe and Mark, but that she should try to understand that, as a guy, it's important for Joe to learn to fight and to at least show up. No, Joe didn't need to beat the snot out of Mark to be a good man--he already was one--but a guy can't back down from challenges. I think that Joe, by showing up and being ready to fight if needed, ended up handling it the best way he could have. And he got a very cute lady--as well as new sartorial skills--to boot! "},{"Title":"Exceptional? ....No.","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Serious? ....No.Lighthearted? ....Yes.Funny? ....Yes.Full of morals and clichés? ....You bet.But it's the Bullied verses the Bully and most of us, especially those of us who might have been in similar circumstances, like these kind of movies; don't we? Obviously this movie isn't meant to be taken too seriously and Tim Allen pulls it off nicely and, along with the support characters, they combine to make this one of those movies you can enjoy without having the feeling you have to barf. "},{"Title":"Good, clean family fun","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tim Allen is a very talented comedian, so I feel almost all his movies are worth seeing.  So far, the only one I dreaded was Jungle 2 Jungle.  Joe Somebody has everything you would expect in a family comedy and the story is predictable.  But the point is it's a fun movie to watch and I was quite entertained.  Julie Bowen (from Happy Gilmore and TV's Ed) plays Allen's love interest.  God!  She's one of the most beautiful actresses in Hollywood!  I hope to see her in more and more movies.  My heart just melts everytime I see her on screen.  Jim Belushi is hilarious as Allen's martial arts personal trainer/out-of-work action star.  I guess that's an inside joke, spoofing his own movie career...LOL.  But I love Jim, he's truly an underrated comic actor.  If you want to see him in other funny performances, I suggest you see Taking Care of Business and Return to Me.  What did disappoint me was the lack of screen time for Patrick Warburton.  He's only in the film for about ten minutes!  Warburton is another truly talented comic actor--we all loved him as Puddy on Seinfeld--and he's definitely going places.  He literally doesn't get to say any funny lines in this movie.  That sucks!  That's why I'm really, really looking forward to the release of Big Trouble, also starring Allen and Warburton, where hopefully we'll get to see a lot more of Patrick.  Like most family films, the third act becomes serious and the comedy sags, because this is the point where they're supposed to deliver the message.  And like most family films, the message is delivered in a deliberately corny fashion.  I'm sorry, call me a pessimist, but even if you're going to deliver a message there should be a sense of reality to it.  American Beauty was a film with a message--in fact, a bunch of messages--but it was delivered in a very unpretentious, realistic manner without fearing the audience's reaction.  In the opening of the film, we establish that Allen is a loser.  Why?  Who the heck knows?  But for some stupid reason, everyone around him--whether it's at work or around town--doesn't even bother to acknowledge he exists.  He says hello, but no one says hello back.  And suddenly, just because he plans on fighting the most hated man in the workplace, everyone thinks of him as a god?  Maybe this could happen in the sixth grade.  But in an upscale working environment?  I don't think so.  Even adults can be shallow, but that's ridiculous.  So don't go into Joe Somebody expecting to be enlightened or touched in any way.  Just go in for the laughs--and if you're a guy, also go in to see the beautiful Julie Bowen.  There's an incentive!  My score  7 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"Contains all the successful elements for family movie","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent family movie, if you have the disc you will want to watch it a second time in a day or two. It is worth having in your collection, you will want to go back to it time and time again.Tim Allen is lovable and does an excellent performance. Julie Bowen also excellent and lovable. The supporting actors and direction were superb.A great underdog movie turning top-dog with a couple scenes that were stretching the imagination. (please excuse the cliché's they are unavoidable.)To make this review submission-able I have to add this last line. I think it deserves a better score than 5.5 "},{"Title":"Engaging Comedy","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't know if it was because I watched McHALE'S NAVY the previous night but I was charmed by JOE SOMEBODY . Agreed it's not a movie that will be winning much in the way of awards but isn't as bad as some people are making out . It get's off to a good start in the opening shot where Joe thinks a sexy brunette is waving to him only to find she's waving at someone else . Come on guys admit you've made the same mistake . It's also one of those romantic / family comedies that gets the balance right between pathos and humour without becoming jarring or unfocused . When Joe talks to Natalie his angst ridden daughter on the phone it is a touching scene helped in no small part by a musical score similar to THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION My only real complaint is that the screenplay can't keep up the momentum but that's not a unique criticism since most movies of what ever genre suffer from sagging about two thirds the way through so the only real disappointment is why didn't the producers hire Steven Seagal as Chuck the martial arts movie star . It's impossible not to notice who Chuck is supposed to be and if we had Seagal lampooning himself then this would have been a minor comedy classic "},{"Title":"A Good Family Comedy-Drama","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tim Allen displays some serious dramatic flourishes along some of his older comedic antics in this family comedy-drama about a corporate man who is bullied and finds himself seeking revenge of him in a rematch. Unlike most family movies, the script in this movie attempts to move in a more elevated direction along with a more MRS. DOUBTFIRE (1993) or THE NANNY DIARIES (2007) level of integrity. There are bouts of over the top acting that seem to intrude briefly, but for the most part this light-weight movie packs enough of a punch to be worthy of some serious viewing. The relational aspects between Tim Allen, co-workers, his ex-, his mentor, his possible female attraction, between daughter and parents are proportioned and handled with sensitivity and usually without Hollywood eccentricity. 7/10. "},{"Title":"A really excellent movie about not being afraid to stand up for yourself","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" JOE SOMEBODY, in my opinion, is a really excellent movie about not being afraid to stand up for yourself. When Mark (Patrick Warburton) hit Joe (Tim Allen) in the parking lot of their workplace while Natalie (Hayden Panettiere) looked on in terror from the car. However, when she tried to help him, I felt really happy. Also, when a thing between Meg (Julie Bowen) blossomed, I felt even happier. If you ask me, his ex-wife, Callie (Kelly Lynch), was a very pretty lady. Her boyfriend, Rick, on the other hand, was absolutely positively, disgustingly annoying. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this really excellent movie about not being afraid to stand up for yourself to any Tim Allen fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for lots of laughter, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "}{"Title":"Nice, light movie","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Funny. Tim Allen and Julie Bowen work well together. I look forward to seeing either of their next movies. Although one of the messages of the film is that you don't have to fight to be a good man, it should be noted that good men aren't afraid to fight when they have to. Joe ultimately didn't fight the bully, but he showed up (the right thing to do), and wasn't afraid to do battle if he was left with no choice. Bowen's character urged Joe to back away from the pending fracas with McKinney, but, truth be told, part of her growing attraction to him came from the determination and courage that he displayed to the end. If he'd had taken her advice and backed down, she probably wouldn't have respected him as much... "},{"Title":"An okay family movie, but not particularly memorable","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like Tim Allen and I hate to see him selling himself out like this. Here he's playing an average joe (named Joe! Haha the irony!) who gets beat up outside work one day by a meanie co-worker (played by the brilliant Patrick Warburton, one of the most underrated comedians out there).Feeling like he has lost his dignity and manhood (and the fact that it occurred in front of his preteen daughter doesn't help any), Joe decides to fight back - by training extensively and preparing for the Next Big Fight.He employs the services of a guru (Jim Belushi) to help him learn forms of karate and what not, so he can take down Warburton.The movie is kind of lame insofar that it seems very childish - that's partly the point but, on the other hand, it promotes a bad message to kids. Of course the moral at the end of the story is, Don't fight. But we spend an hour and a half of revenge-filled fantasy getting there.It's not a particularly bad film, but neither is it particularly good. I hate to see Tim Allen selling himself out like this because I think he's a fine comedian and this puts his talents to waste. Anyone could play this role. There's a reason it's called Joe Somebody. Now here's a good idea put Patrick Warburton in a good movie for once, and give Tim Allen a good role. "},{"Title":"Adorable story Mr. Nobody becomes Somebody with 'Class'!","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tim Allen with his 'appropriate' balance of comedy and seriousness to the main character role, Allen provides the necessary foundation to a comedy that keeps it from becoming 'silly' a.k.a Jim Carey. However, the 'attractiveness' of this comedy and why I don't get tired of seeing it time and time again is Julie Bowen! Where has this adorable, cute and take her home to meet Momma lady been? I think the industry has really missed a Meg Ryan, Sandra Bullock, and Julia Roberts all rolled up into one actress with her... I would go see 'any' movie that featured Julie Bowen!! "},{"Title":"Second rate comedy with a great message","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is not a great movie by a long shot.  The script seems like it was put through a committee of unfunny people trying to see what would make it funny.  This movie needed one very good writer to punch it up and throw in some smart dialogue, but it only seems to go halfway.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD AND SOME DEFINITE SPOILERS AS WELL) Tim Allen does a nice turn as a timid guy who becomes the most popular guy at work when everyone anticipates his rematch with the office bully who hit him in front of his daughter, on Take Your Daughter To Work Day, no less.  Julie Bowen is adorable in this, but then again she could be adorable reading a math textbook in Norwegian for five hours.  The whole movie seems to be about the time leading up to the big rematch, and some have complained that they were disappointed that the 'big fight' never happens, but I think they miss the point.  Joe is really caught up in the idea that he will fight to redeem himself, and his enthusiasm for finally becoming confrontational seems to change his life for the better all around.  It doesn't give him what he really wants or needs, though, and in the end he has to walk away from the fight in order to get what he really needs.  Anyone who's a pacifist or has been picked on by bullies at school should probably see this movie, and it wouldn't be a bad film for bullies or potential future bullies to watch as well.  Adults may be disappointed by the overall flatness of the film, but it has its moments, and I think kids in their early teens might really like it.  They should have made it more of an adult or children's film.  As it is, it seems to blandly smear itself in both directions.A few things I liked about the characters  the ex-wife is not portrayed as a cold hearted bitch as in most two dimensional Hollywood garbage, and even the bully is, in the end, not reduced to a stereotype and was given more depth than most movie bullies.  Some surprisingly real human actions and reactions in there if you look.  I think it's at least worth watching if any of these redeeming qualities appeal to you.  Rent it if you're getting more than one flick. "},{"Title":"Julie's movie","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand the negative reviews. This is a good movie, well written and pretty original. Great dialogue. The top value of this movie is Julie. Julie and her character are the core of the value of the story and of the serious joy of watching. I won't forget that dance either! (Yes, I am a guy.) "},{"Title":"Nice Movie","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Prior to watching this, I wasn't a big Tim Allen fan.  In fact, I tended to stay away from anything he was in.  But I gave this a chance, and it was well worth it.  Tim Allen was great.  It was a nice story, and one to which I'm sure many can relate.  I recommend it to people who like to leave a movie feeling good. "},{"Title":"Ohhh...cliches` all over the place!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all I got to say that Tim Allen has the worst facelift I have ever seen, even worse than Chuck Norrises! Ahh well enough with the chit chat and on too the movie. I still don`t know if I like it or hate it. Julie Bowen is as good as ever and Tim Allen is usually a funny guy. The story about a man who finds his confidence is o.k. but not so original.Somewhere I feel that this could have been a good movie but it isn`t. The jokes are mostly family movie jokes, and I hate those. If they would have filmed it as a normal comedy and maybe done some more daring jokes, then it could have been great. I love feel good movies, but this is just too sugary for me. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable comedy","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.  I was able to watch it with my wife and eight year old son and we all laughed and had a good time.  Sure, the film didn't win best picture, but it doesn't have to.  The characters in this film provided very good performances, and I believe the film did what it set out to do, as any good comedy should, make my family and I laugh!  It achieved that goal without excessive bad language or put downs.  I would recommend `Joe Somebody'.  "},{"Title":"Great family film","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My family and I really enjoyed this movie. Tim Allen did a great job acting. He made you laugh when appropriate (easy for Tim Allen to do) but also was extremely effective at communicating to the audience the pain of a father who had been humiliated in front of his child. You really felt for Joe, and pulled for him the entire way on his quest to become Somebody.  "},{"Title":"Fair effort","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On the whole I enjoyed this movie, The story line has been used a million times before , but in this movie it seems to still work , a average effort, I didnt get that deep emotion feeling  , but then i was expecting that with this title..Old format reasonable approach , fair acting 6-10  "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Well-Written","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** I recently saw this promoted on another DVD and was puzzled that I'd neverheard of it you'd think a film with Tim Allen would have been promoted. I figured it was a dog but rented it anyway.To my surprise, this was an excellent film. Don't judge it by the trailer (which is misleading) or Tim's reputation. This is NOT a slapstick comedy goof-off, but a mildly comedic serious story about an average Joe trying to figure out who he is.Tim plays Joe, a longtime cubicle worker for a huge corporation who's a decent but invisible guy. He's struggling through a divorce, but loves his daughter. On Take Your Daughter  to Work Day the last parking spot gets taken by a jerkwho cuts him off. Worse, this parking lot is reserved for employees who'veworked at the company for at least ten years and Joe knows the guy's only been there for seven. He confronts the guy and the guy (who's big), slaps him down. Twice. In front of his daughter. Humiliated, Joe begins to wonder what wentwrong with his life.Inspired by a co-worker (the stunning Julie Bowen), he decides that what hewants is to beat the jerk up. He publicly announces he's going to fight the guy in three weeks, and then sets out on a rigorous training regime. Suddenlyeveryone at the office knows Joe, likes Joe, and is rooting for him to beat the jerk.Gradually the popularity and overconfidence goes to Joe's head as he'salienated from his potential girlfriend (Bowen) and his daughter, who don't like the new cocky Joe. In the end, Joe must decide if beating up a co-worker will make him a man, or if he's already a man.This is a film about character the plot's predictable but that's not why you watch this kind of movie. Tim Allen does an excellent job, but this is not the laugh-out- loud comedy you'd expect from him. I think that's why it failed. People didn't get what they expected. Watch this as a drama and you'll find the humor amusingand the love story attractive. It's well-written with some remarkably gooddialogue, especially in the romance, which in comedic films often comes across as silly.For instance, one of my favorite scenes occurs after Tim witnesses Julie Bowen playing basketball with some girls and doing a silly and embarrassing victory dance. Later, while walking and talking, she asks how long he was standingthere watching. When he admits he saw her dance, she embarrassed and says,Oh no, no. Please, say something right now to make me feel less like throwing myself down these steps. Tim pauses, then says, I'll be flat out amazed if I can think of anything else for a least a week. Very simple, but honest and effective. She's flattered and that's the beginning of their falling in love. Cool scene. "},{"Title":"Definitely a guy film, but a good one.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe wanted to make movies, but ended up making commercials for a big pharmaceutical firm.  We understand that his work is quite good, but Joe is a nice guy.  Not a fighter.  He doesn't fight for promotions like others do, so he is taken for granted and they can barely remember his name.  He didn't even fight when his materialistic wife dumped him for a much younger, and empty headed actor.  But he loves his 12-year-old daughter so much that he has turned her into a tomboy.  It's a guy fantasy, remember, so he and his daughter love nothing so much as professional sports.  But then something happens that shames him in front of the kid, and the only way he can go forward is to learn to fight back.  That's the setup, but the way he deals with it is what makes it a good film.  On the downside, all the tail licking over the sports shtick gets tiresome at times, as though there was something spiritually transcendent about shooting a ball through a hoop, but then it can't really be a guy film without the obligatory jock strap, right? "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy for fans of the Tool-man","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wanted to see this film in the first place because it was filmed partly in my neighborhood, and in the second place because I am a fan of Tim Allen. His fans will want to see this film.  There were not that many big laughs, which makes it more romantic than comedy.  Likeable characters keep this film moving. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A good movie to watch with the whole family.  It does have a message but in an entertaining way.  Tim Allen, Julie Bowen, Jim Belushi and Kelly Lynch all give good performences.  It's paced well and dosen't get too hooky where it could have.    "},{"Title":"A great Flick! But does have some troubles.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was a good comedy very good actors in it i.e. Tim Allen, James Belushi etc. The comedy was great, the acting was awsome, the dierecting of it was good too. The plot was O.K. *******SPOILERS!******* *************SPOILERS**********************SPOILERS********************* In then end when he did not fight was very predictable I knew what was going to happen from start to finish. The ending I thought was pretty good nice and dramatic. I suggest this movie to anyone who likes comedy and have a good time. I'm going to buy the DVD when it comes out its definatley worth it. I rate it 8/10. a good B+ movie! "},{"Title":"A good, enjoyable movie with nice messages","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wasn't expecting much, but I must say I thoroughly enjoyed this film. The character interactions were clever and meaningful, there was a true and valid commentary and a nice way of delivering the message.  The multiple lives and perspectives were also a nice touch.  And to top it all off, the beginning commercial about the side effects of the first drug was absolutely hilarious;  I swear, they ripped that one right from one of my own jokes.  Overall, somewhere between B+ and A-.   "},{"Title":"I thought it was the Best","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I got to go to a pre-screening where we could see the work in progress. It was almost complete.I absolutely fell in love with it.  It made you laugh, cry, feel warm, anger at the injustices that are out there, and thankful that Joe realized that he didn't need to be like the jerks of the world.The reviewers slammed it, but they must not be like joe somebody.  If you have ever been hurt, bothered or used by a bully, you will love this movie. If you root for the underdog you will love it.I hope you get to see it on video. "},{"Title":"Average flick with refreshing characters","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's a dog-eat-dog world, and while the meek may inherit the earth, they certainly don't get much respect.  That's the problem Joe faces as he muddles through his everyday life, consistently overlooked for promotions, special favors, and just being invited to hang out with the guys.  Joe doesn't let that bother him, though, as he knows he is a good man, taking pride in his work and enjoying every minute he spends with his daughter.Things change on bring your daughter to work day when Mark, the company bully, assaults Joe in a dispute over a parking space.  Joe, humiliated, retreats to his house and drowns his sorrows by cleaning and drinking, realizing that his happiness had been based solely on his self-respect that he now has lost.Joe realizes that the only way to get his self-respect back is to challenge Mark to a fight.  But then a curious thing happens not only does he regain respect for himself, his co-workers suddenly begin treating him better.  People greet him in the hall and invite him to play squash.  Joe gains confidence from the fighting lessons he takes from a washed-up movie star, and he begins to take more pride in his appearance.Not everyone likes who Joe has become, however.  Joe begins to neglect his daughter, and Meg, the company wellness coordinator, thinks he has become more suave than sweet.  Joe begins to realize that he must find a balance between the Joe Nobody that got beat up in the parking lot and the Joe Somebody that emerged looking for a fight.If that sounds like a synopsis for an after-school TV special, rest assured that portions of the movie play like one, too.  While the movie never gets overly preachy, the simplicity does get annoying at times.  Some issues are left unresolved, while others are never even addressed.  And while it would be unfair to call the movie predictable (it does avoid cliches that seem inevitable), there is rarely any question about the general direction any given part of the movie will take.What gives the movie its charm, however, is its refreshing array of characters.  Joe is a likeable guy who simply wants more from his life than 9 to 5 drudgery.  His co-workers aren't nearly as shallow as you would expect them to be (although we only get to know a couple of them).  And while Meg is too cute to be believably single, her personality has an air of self-assurance that gives her additional credibility.Good performances all around, especially by Tim Allen, who nails the role of a broken-hearted man perfectly.  Still, you can't help but wonder how much better this film would have been under the direction of a more competent filmmaker.  I would have to call Joe Somebody John Pasquin's worst film because this one had so much more potential than his previous efforts, which include The Santa Clause and Jungle2Jungle.  That's not to say it's a bad movie by any means.  I would call this Tim Allen's best film, and I do recommend it, just with reservations. "},{"Title":"Really good movie being marketed WRONG","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  From the ads for this movie you'd think it would be more of a physical comedy bordering on the inane.  But it really is a considerably above average movie.  Tim Allen has much more depth as an actor than I'd imagined. This is definitely a feel good movie, and a really nice flick.  Enjoy it..I did! "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great.  Patrick Warburton is going to stardom.  This is some of Jim Belushi's best work.  One of the best comedies of the year.  Tim Allen is very very very funny.  I think that this should have been nominated for best comedy in the Golden Globes.  See this movie. "}{"Title":"Quite Simply, The Best Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie just gets it right. I cried throughout as Tim Allen does a fantastic job of elicitting sympathy at the beginning setting up what looks to be another underdog Rocky type movie which guys like me always go for but it pulls back and instead of just giving all us angry males what we want tries to show us how stupid we are. We all know these things but sometimes it just gets lost in the shuffle of trying to impress a girl or accepting the image bestowed upon us of what a Real Man truly is.In addition the movie is very funny and never misses a beat. I hesitate to say it was flawless but I think it was. It never beats you over the head with anything or goes to the well one too many times (the commercial spoofs on the pharmacutical drugs is a perfect example). It's funny when it needs to be. Wait for Putty's response to Tim Allen pulling up to his house. PERFECT!And the girl. She is what drives the movie. If Marla Singer drove the narrator in Fight Club then the girl in this (from Happy Gilmore) drives Joe here but she does it in such a healing way. These are the kind of parts Naomi Watts' character would have played in Mulholland Drive. She likes Joe for who he is. I know this sounds corny and I love to nail movies like this but that is simply how good it is. "},{"Title":"very funny, very sweet and good music. good date movie","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this at a sneak peak I thought it was going to be a light movie but I ended up liking the people in the movie. I wanted them to get together. It moved along at a good pace, no boring parts. The music was mostly unknown(at least to me) and was very good. I hope there's a soundtrack. Tim Allen and John Belushi were both very good in this movie. "},{"Title":"Feel good comedy with few moral pointers","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Recap Joe Scheffer is a hardworking single (recently divorced) father. Although all the effort Joe Scheffer puts in his life he remains a Nobody. No one pays attention to him at work, women don't look his way and everyone feels like they can step on him. The only person that seems to really like him is his daughter. So when a fight over a simple matter as a parking space ends with Joe being humiliatingly slapped, in front of not only his co-workers but also his daughter, something snaps inside him. He stays home, and when Meg Harper, the company's health coordinator reaches out to him and asks what he want, the reaction is great. What he wants? He wants to fight, to gain respect. And suddenly he is Somebody...Comments This is a simple, sweet, feel good company with a few funny quirks. And throw in a few moral pointers and the package is complete. It's all about the little man, growing, maturing, and becoming the Big Man that's walking the High Road. And then of course everyone finds love, succeeds and becomes happy. If you expect something controversial, something deep and philosophical you will be disappointed. But if you sit down, and follow Joe's struggles, you will leave with a smile.Tim Allen, although according to trivia second in line behind Carrey, is a better match for the role than Carrey would have been. This is not that kind of comedy that Carrey does so well. This is the kind of comedy Tim Allen does well. He can be the small trampled guy, and he can be the confident smiling man. Julie Bowen has the role of the love interest, and even if she has pretty much screen time, her role is kind of limited, and Bowen's talents not really put to use. The character of Meg hints at a complex and interesting side, but that is never explored. I guess that is because it would have stolen focus from the story, and changed the feel good comedy-genre into something else.There are two other memorable characters. First, the daughter Natalie, skillfully played by Hayden Panettiere, who also hints of a more complex truth beneath the smart and talented surface. All blissfully ignored of course. And then there is James Belushi, whose character Chuck Scarett, an action-movie star turned martial arts trainer fits the movie much better.All in all, a movie certainly good for a simple evening of entertainment...6/10 "},{"Title":"Not a big Tim Allen fan, but I liked him in this movie.","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tim Allen is Joe Scheffer, a mild-mannered salesman, who also happens to be going through a hurtful divorce. He really is mostly a nobody and this movie is about his transformation into a somebody. Joe Somebody. Julie Bowen is Meg Harper, one of Joe's co-worker. Although there is a 12-year age difference between her and Joe, we sense there might be more than a good friendship developing. Hayden Panettiere is Natalie, Joe's cute daughter, who is very attached to dad, and is also hurting with the break up of the family. A very smart, straight-A student, she has sort of dropped off the radar at school.The story is set up when Joe is embarrassed in front of Natalie, in a mild argument over a parking spot, Joe is beat up by a bully in the parking lot. He vows to get even, challenges the man to a real fight, then bumps into Chuck Scarett (Jim Belushi), a martial arts instructor who doesn't seem to have any other students, and who always reaches for a beer when he gets thirsty. Chuck has three weeks to prepare Joe.SPOILERS. The big day arrives, the two men show up for the fight, others show up, bets in hand, to see who kicks butt. Chuck had trained Joe to be a fairly good fighting machine. Natalie, on her bike, shows up and watches from afar. Meg is disgusted that Joe would go through with the fight. But he doesn't. Face to face with the bully, he realizes he feels good enough about himself that he doesn't need to fight. He smiles and walks away, the bully apologizing to him, his daughter happy about dad, and Joe and Meg get together in the end. Meg even quits her corporate job to take a low-paying job as a school counselor. Natalie writes a successful school play. Everyone is happy by the end. "},{"Title":"Joe Somebody","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Somebody is a comedy/drama about Joe Scheffer (Tim Allen) who is a nobody at work, until the day he is beat up in the car park by a co-worker and rescued by his young daughter, following the incident he agrees to fight back. Starring (Tim Allen), (Julie Bowen), (Hayden Panettiere) and (James Belushi) Joe Somebody is a good light comedy flick, the storyline is believable and Allen is suited to play Joe, also Meg Harper played by (Julie Bowen) was a strong role. Predictable storyline , funny in all the right places, its amazing how the aspects of this film do occur in everyday life, Joe goes from a nobody to being the most popular guy at work through one act.It's sad to believe that is how people only react once you have done something worthy for them to associate with you, it's like high school life.Anyway reasonable comedy film, good to see Allen back into film. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie came as a surprise for me, it was much funnier than expected. Joe Sheffer (played by Tim Allen) is tired of being a loser, and decides to do something about it. That involves engaging in a fight with a bully at his work. This is a good starting point for the movie, and it follows up in a good way with many funny moments. Even though James Belushi isn't exactly the best actor around, I think his appearance in this movie was really great. As a former (and now totally forgotten) B-action movie star, his character had played in movies like Maximum Punishment, Quick Kill and Master of Justice. That was hilarious. "},{"Title":"Feel good father/daughter film","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just what I needed on a rainy morning in upstate New York on a business trip. Light, witty semi-realistic family drama. It was great to see a bright, talented daughter help her bullied dopey dad. Fun twist on the whole angst ridden ex falling apart story. Tim Allen carries it off well. Great counterpart in the HR rep (school adviser wanna be). It was fun to see a woman worker helping the man basket-case with his emotional problems. Super sub theme with daughter emerging from messed up kid to kid with a shot at a great life. It was amazing to see that great little actress help both her parents and emerge healthier for it. Tim Allen and his silliness provided delightful needed levity.  "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was a light-hearted comedy about a man who starts as a nobody and must find out how to become a somebody.  While not the best film of this sort made, it is far from the worst.  The acting is easy and fun and doesn't need to be taken totally seriously and Jim Belushi is great at the fighting instructor.  I've been a fan of Tim Allen since his stand-up comedy days and while he hasn't been given a chance to make any really dynamite movies this one isn't as bad as some will tell you.  Don't expect to go in and see a moving piece of drama or a hilarious slaptick comedy.  This is light, feel-good entertainment that doesn't require a lot of thought, but doesn't preach to you either.  It's something the family can enjoy and I think this is exactly what Tim Allen, Julie Bowen, Kelly Lunch and the entire crew involved were shooting for when they made this.   "},{"Title":"A shining example of life imitating school","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Boy likes girl. Girl shoots boy down. Boy weeps inside.Boy gets beat up by bigger boy. Boy's dignity is destroyed.Everyone else cheers for boy to beat up bigger boy.Sound familiar?  It only happens in schools everywhere across thenation, and it happens in Joe Somebody too.Perhaps the most striking thing I saw in this is that no matter howold you are, life is going to be like what you went through at school.For example *The repeated snipes at the A/V guy by Greg Germann. The useof that phrase was a nice way (in a manner of speaking) to showhow nerds get no respect. *Becoming popular by being willing to beat up someone whoeveryone else wants beat up. At the same time, even before thefight, it was about building self-confidence by those expecting youto do something.  It's what would happen after you do or don't do itthat is left unanswered. *Crowding around the schoolyard to watch the fight. As with theA/V guy comment, the symbolism is something to consider.Coming from the ranks of nerds as I do, this movie had a lot forme.  It occasionally came too close to home, but there wasenough humor to keep it at a safe distance. Overall, it was adecent movie, of course with a happy ending, which is more thancan be said for many people in real life. (I think that may be themost unbelievable part of all, but this is Hollywood here.)On the other hand, it can be seen as very pessimistic commentaryon life If you're a loser, a nerd, stuck where you never expected tobe, you really don't have a way out unless something badhappens.  Bullies may be punished, but the authorities can'trestore your dignity. And even when good things begin to happen,you must watch for ulterior motives. Joe didn't get promoted for hiswork, he got promoted so he wouldn't sue.  (Although suing maybe the 'civilized' thing to do, with the only fighting done by lawyers,that just seems stupid at times.) And that is a lesson pessimistslike myself will find in this movie.And be sure to catch the side effects of those drugs you're taking. "},{"Title":"Tim Allen takes Karate lessons...","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Somebody stars Tim Allen in the title role of Joe Scheffer, a mild-mannered technician for a major pharmaceutical company.  Though he is jokingly known around the office as the A/V Guy, he still manages to keep his head up about it.  He's basically a nerd, has no life, is lonely and his twelve year-old daughter, Natalie (Hayden Panettiere), is his only true friend in the world.  His life starts to take a turn for the better when he falls in love with Meg Harper (Julie Bowen), a friendly coworker who is also the director of the company wellness program.  But all of that fades on Bring Your Daughter To Work Day when he is slapped around the parking lot by Mark McKinney (Patrick Warburton), who is the company bully.  Joe, feeling humiliated for being beaten up in front of his daughter, vows revenge.  So he begins taking Karate lessons from a washed-up martial arts star (James Belushi) to get ready for a rematch against McKinney.   Joe Somebody basically has all of the qualities of some sort of kids movie, except it has adult characters. I think that it is really easy to connect with Joe because just about anyone could relate to his situation.  I'm sure anyone at one time in their life has had to deal with a bully, though I'm not sure about what lengths a person would go to contend with the situation.I don't think you can call Joe Somebody a kids movie however, as it does have a lot profanity for a family film, but nothing too explicit is heard.This movie does have one important message Fighting doesn't solve anything, despite what goes on in the film. 9/10  "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tim Allen shines in this great comedy.  He does good as the dad who tries to fight back against the strong Patrick Warburton.  Sadly, he gets embarassed in front of his daughter getting punched.  He wants revenge pretty badly and goes to karate man jim Belushi and should learn to protect his private area with a cup or something.  This movie mixes in a lot of elements with comedy, drama, romance, and a moral.  It's element works out well and I enjoyed the characters.  Especially Tim Allen as the father who wants to get his name back from his daughter.  Overall the comedy is great and the elements are good, but there is such thing as one too many kick-in-the-crotch moments.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A nobody who became a somebody","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tim Allen plays Joe Scheffer, a hard working divorced dad. On one day takes his daughter to work.Then He gets beat up in the parking lot by Bully co worker played well by Patrick Warburton. Joe desides he wants a rematch. And he becomes popular because of it. And ask Jim Belushi a former action-star turned karate instructer for help. Nobody can entertain you like Tim Allen. Jim Belushi is also good, so was Patrick Warburton and Julie Bowen. A film for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Joe Nobody.","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Somebody (2001) Dir John Pasquin / Cast Tim Allen, Julie Bowen, James Belushi, Patrick Warburton, Hayden Panettiere Many viewers may relate to Joe's situation. It addresses the importance of people as individuals. Tim Allen stars as an advertising executive who takes his daughter to work with him only to discover that the company bully took his parking space. When he confronts the issue he is assaulted right in front of his daughter and co-workers. The bully is suspended but Allen is unable to face work again. His boss fears a lawsuit so he assigns Julie Bowen to bring him back. She wishes to get out of her job and become a guidance counselor. He decides to meet the bully again and is trained by a former stunt person. Setup works but it never avoids formula and its ending is too obvious. Third collaboration between director John Pasquin and Allen who previously made the inventive The Santa Clause and the inexcusable Jungle 2 Jungle. Allen holds his own right up until the predictable outcome. Bowen is flat as a potential romantic prop. James Belushi as the stunt person had potential but needs better material than this. Patrick Warburton plays the ever familiar low IQ office bully. Hayden Panettiere plays Joe's daughter and the role is predictable drivel. Strong theme of self worth and violence. Too bad the screenwriter didn't train as hard as Joe. Score 4 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Tim Allen at his best","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tim Allen has since made some pretty dodgy films (Christmas with the Kranks,Wild Hogs) but here he is on top form in a comedy that manages to mix humour and heart.The first half in particular is actually very dramatic and allows Allen to play a character with more depth than I think he had previously. As an audience we really buy into Joe's story and want him to make his daughter proud.The second half falls back into being more of a standard Tim Allen comedy and is at times very funny. He has lovely chemistry with Julie Bowen and the gentle romance between the characters is one of the strengths of the film.The message about Joe having to fight his co-worker in order to get redemption is a bit questionable for a PG certificate but if you stick with this film during some of the slower sections you'll find yourself watching one of the best Tim Allen films to date. "},{"Title":"Got Old Quickly","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Scheffer (Tim Allen) works in a large corporation and is going through some tough times. Not only has his wife, Callie Scheffer (Kelly Lynch) left him for another man but to make things even more humiliating he is beaten up in the parking lot of his company in front of his young daughter, Natalie Scheffer (Hayden Panettiere) . Too ashamed to return to work he is visited by a corporate counselor by the name of Meg Harper (Julie Bowen) who inadvertently gives him the idea of challenging the corporate bully Mark McKinney (Patrick Warburton) into a rematch. Suddenly, he becomes the rising star in the company and his behavior changes accordingly. Anyway, although this film started off pretty good it didn't seem to add anything new or interesting after the first 15 minutes or so. It was like one long joke which just dragged on for 98 minutes and it got old quickly. And while I liked the performance of Julie Bowen and I certainly didn't think her presence or that of Kelly Lynch hurt the scenery in any way neither of them were able to elevate this film enough for me to rate it any higher than I have. Slightly below average. "},{"Title":"Tim Allen against type casting can't take off","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tim Allen is against type here as the meek Joe Scheffer, an AV worker in a giant drug company. He is divorced from his hot wife, passed over for promotions, and ignored by his boss. Then on bring-your-daughter day, he gets beaten up by the office bully Mark McKinney (Patrick Warburton) for a parking spot right in front of his daughter Natalie (Hayden Panettiere).This puts him in a depressed tailspin. Then when company wellness officer Meg Harper (Julie Bowen) ask him what he wants, he decides that he wants a rematch. In addition, James Belushi plays a martial arts teacher.It is extremely difficult to see Tim Allen casted so far against type. And he's not helping the matter with his lack of acting. The setting is the wimpiest of suburban and corporate blandness in Minnesota. There's really not much I like in this one except I am a fan of almost every actor involved. Sadly I didn't laugh once. "},{"Title":"Not all bad","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a vaguely entertaining film that I think accidentally tried to do several different things, none of which come out particularly well, making it on the whole an average movie.The writing is uneven, the pacing seemed off and nothing was delved into deep enough to be all that ambitious or successful in any particular area.  It's not entirely a slapstick comedy, but there's the fair share of karate-training crotch kicking, etc.  It's not entirely a family flick but there is of course the alienated daughter and ex-wife and new boyfriend and all the rest.  It's not entirely a romantic comedy, but there's the obligatory romance that almost doesn't work out.  It has a little of all these things and they all work on a very minimal level.  (*Mild Spoilers within*)The training scenes with Jim Belushi have some moments but got tedious toward the end.  They needed of course to show Joe's progression as a fighter but there wasn't any punch to those scenes other than the actual punching that was going on.The family angle is interesting and is given attention in terms of screen time but is largely ignored as far as difference making in the plot.  Joe's daughter is clumsily (and by that I mean to abruptly) developed as a precocious 12-year old with the vaguely foul mouth but heart of gold.  The concept of father and daughter as writers inhibited by various forces could have been interesting but was mentioned once early in the movie, given about 5 minutes of time midway through, and then suddenly re-introduced as the movie's conclusion.  The family angle was necessary given that Joe's humiliation was made even worse by the fact that it was done in front of his daughter..The romantic angle I had the least problems with, as far as story and development.  Julie Bowen plays That Girl That Julie Bowen Always Plays and the reason she always plays That Girl is because she knows how to do it and do it well.  Allen summons as much charm as he can and does a passable job, but ends up hurting the film since it really needed both actors to hit one out of the park to make up for all the other faults.Which is not to say the movie is all bad.  It is not without it's funny moments, or touching moments, or romantic moments, etc.  It's just that the unevenness of the story means that when those moments do come they don't don't pack the kind of wallop that you'd like them to. "},{"Title":"Strong turn from Allen saves this run of the mill message piece.","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here in the UK we have the famous BBC. With the BBC there's something that serious film lovers are aware of. Namely that BBC1 shows what are considered to be duff movies late at night during the working week. The reason for this is that children are in bed and so are the adults who have to get up in the morning, thus viewing figures are not of any great importance. And mainly, the BBC gets to fulfil it's showing quotas for film's they have the rights too but wish they hadn't. So when I saw that this Tim Allen starrer was showing at midnight on a Monday night, I didn't expect much other than an average time filler of a movie. So it proved.It's a safe parable piece about male egos, bullies and the reaction of others to violence. Hell there's even a little romance in there to make sure the piece stays on the warm side of the safe haven bed. Tim Allen turns in an engaging performance as the guy beat up in front of his young daughter who then gets some martial arts training with the intention of beating said attacker to a pulp. Once the word is out that he is going to fight this guy, everyone starts to react differently to him. Co-workers want to play squash with him, his ex now finds him sexy, you know, that sort of thing. Naturally the ending doesn't hold any great surprises, this is a message movie and its message is delivered with all the subtlety of a thunder storm. But it is watchable, family friendly stuff. Even if, when all is said and done, its vanishes quickly from the memory about two seconds after the credits have rolled. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Hayden Somebody.","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Tim Allen may have top billing, and his character's name in the title, but it's Hayden Panettiere as his sharp daughter that is the best thing about Joe Somebody. She played the young firecracker of a daughter to the white coach in Remember the Titans and she shows the same skill as a thoughtful and far too smart girl in this. That's not bad for a girl of eleven. The rest of the movie plays like a bad after school special with pat morals. The entire plot is about a guy being b*tch slapped in the parking lot by a co-worker, learning how to fight from a washed up action star, and finding out that he wasn't that bad of a guy to begin with. Aww. It's not a bad moral, but it's always handled as subtly as an anvil to the head. Tim Allen is a comedian, not an actor. He just doesn't have the skills to pull of some of the more emotional scenes in any of his movies. This was a poor choice for him and exposes his weak range. One thing is easy, he gives up on the fight for his daughter, and I am there with him, she is the only reason to sit through this. "},{"Title":"Why didn't they promote this movie? And why did critics fail again?","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"      This is a solid, well-written, well-acted uplifting movie with a heroine (Julie Bowen) who is about as easy to fall in love with as they come.  I just saw it on HBO ,and I predict it will have a long and successful run on television.  It feels like one of those movies that people won't get tired of, and it has some memorable scenes.  I don't know how many people saw it in theaters, but looking at the mere 49 reviews here, it couldn't have been many.  Whether that is an indictment of our current American society or of the studio that failed to promote this nice piece of family entertainment is an interesting question. The major critics also almost universally missed this boat.  (Roger Ebert apparently thinks Allen worked for a marketing agency in the movie.  No, Roger, it was a pharmaceuticals company, and the lead in Grand Canyon wasn't an accountant either, he was an immigration lawyer. Thanks for paying attention before influencing millions, though). In any case, if you want crude jokes and hate genuine feeling, intelligent writing, and dignified humor, well, there are plenty of movies out there for you.  This ain't one of them, (thank God).      To answer one complaint here, there are at least a few memorable laugh-out loud jokes here (and numerous moments that make you smile). For example, the encounter with the mannequin is funny.  The conference call with Mckinney is funny. Frankly, many parts of the initial encounter with the bully are funny.  But what really sets this movie apart is the authenticity--and characterization--of its characters, the feeling it inspires, and the performances by Bowen as Meg, the girl who plays Joe's daughter, and Allen himself.  No, Joe isn't a stereotypical nerd, and maybe he doesn't even change that much, but in today's society, you don't have to be a nerd to get into unfortunate situations (just look at the indifference and negativity toward a feel-good movie from the people we live with everyday). And change and unpredictability aren't required for a movie to be worthwhile.  Make me feel good, make me laugh, make me smile, move me, honor values that are lasting and good.  That will often do the trick just fine, and it does here.       "}{"Title":"A fun little flick with a moral","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In Joe Somebody, Allen plays a company milquetoast and social nonentity who gets his butt kicked by the company bully, takes up self defense training for a rematch, and finds himself suddenly popular. A cute, fun, and enjoyable little romantic comedy with a message, Joe Somebody makes for a pleasurable watch for the whole family. (C+) "},{"Title":"Unrealized potential","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have the distinct impression that this film was the victim of studio-dictated edits. A terrific premise - someone who suddenly seems to earn the respect of his peers by trying to become the type of person he believes others want him to be rather than simply being himself - that was not fully realized. There is good casting and there are characters I wanted to know more about, but there were too many loose ends and too many questions left un-answered. The Director - John Pasquin - has shown in previous efforts like The Santa Clause and Jungle 2 Jungle for Disney that he is capable of helming a good story. Therefore, I have to assume the Studio folks at Fox decided to make some cuts for running time.More background for Tim Allen's character would have helped us to understand why Joe is the kind of person he is, and possibly why the marriage failed. There was exposition that both Joe and his ex (Kelly Lynch) still have deep feelings for each other, and that a reunion of sorts might be in the offing. Joe's ex-wife is shown expressing greater and greater interest in his new personae, and we are led to believe that there will be some kind of emotional showdown eventually between Joe, his ex, and his new love interest. That plot line is just suddenly dropped, and in the end the ex-wife is sitting in a theater with her former husband and his girlfriend (Julie Bowen), and everything is just peachy keen. Huh? Didn't Joe give his ex-wife grief over kissing her new boyfriend in front of him, but thirty minutes later it's just fine for him to be doing the exact same thing? There was no satisfying resolution to their relationship situation, aside from the daughter (Natalie Scheffer) warning her mother not to be too quick to break her father's heart again. There had to have been some scenes shot where these characters find some way to work out their relationships, but if this was done, they were left on the cutting room floor and we are left with unanswered questions.There was also no satisfaction in seeing Joe's boss, or the company as a whole, receive some comeuppance as a result of an obviously flawed, and certainly illegal, human resources policies. Was Greg Germann's character at least fired by the company, and Joe's work ethic rewarded with a real position in the company? Did Joe continue to work for this company, or seek his fortunes elsewhere? Did the co-workers who embraced Joe before the fight day come to understand his choice, and decide that he is still an Ok guy, or did the entire office drop him like a bad habit? Maybe a Directors Cut will answer these and many other questions.Also, if Jim Belushi's character was intended as a partial-parody of Steven Seagal (as it would seem), then don't hold back - bring on the barbs! Belushi's character was great, but it needed fleshing out as well as more screen time. Where did this guy come from? Former military? Did he only work in action films, or did he have another career before retreating to his storefront Dojo? He suddenly shows up in the daughter's play at the end, but we are left to wonder how and why.While overall this is a fun movie to watch, it could have been a better film in the end with even an additional fifteen minutes of story to clarify plot lines and character development. "},{"Title":"Make up your morals","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Somebody is one of those movies where we're supposed to believe it's a movie for kids based on its PG-rating and do not consider the story, plotting, or events as something that will interest youngsters. I know if I was nine or ten years younger and saw this film, I would've been bored to tears. Its moral-heavy nature, bland ideas, and two-dimensional characters would've been of no interest to me. This is likely why I sought out films like Clerks and Rat Race, instead of Joe Somebody, to find a more exciting source of entertainment. At age six, you couldn't drag me to this film.And thus, I sought it out when I was older for a cockamamie fulfillment on my curiosity's behalf. All I can say is that I've made much worse decisions in my life - much wiser ones too. Joe Somebody is a wholesome, competent exercise in family filmmaking, yet its premise is dull, its drama is lukewarm, its messages/morals are jumbled, and we end on a hokey note with the only thing to truly think about being the asinine, cutesy little twist (employing that word loosely).Tim Allen stars as Joe Scheffer, a hard-working everyman who is recently going through divorce, suffering a distinct lack of appreciation at his cubicle-job, despite ten years of employment. One Take your daughter to work day he's anxiously going to show his little girl (Hayden Panettiere) the people there, but the problem ensues from when he tries to park in his lot. The spot is taken by a narcissistic oaf (Patrick Warburton), who shouldn't even be parking in the lot because it's reserved for those who have worked at the place for ten-plus years. When Joe tries to confront the man, he is punched twice in the face, being shamed in front of the office and his daughter. Even though it's relatively early in the film, this scene works as we truly sympathize with Joe and his predicament. Can you imagine such a disrespectful, unnecessary blow (no pun intended) to your ego, let alone one in front of someone who looks up to you? The scene, in a loose sense, is kind of heartbreaking.However, sympathy is short-lived and familiarity begins to breed contempt faster than Joe's face returns to white and not red. Desperate for respect, yet too humiliated to come to work, there Joe sits in his home, drinking heavily and bleaching items in his home like a maid with OCD. With motivation from Meg Harper (Julie Bowen), his attractive coworker, Joe decides to get back on his feet, only this time, taking a ramshackle self-defense class taught by Jim Belushi, playing a hack action movie star.What unfolds is a predictable, unmemorable state of affairs involving Joe being taught how to defend himself, conquer fears, and be a more assertive male. There's nothing wrong with this story (when put with a sly writer and a confident director, it could've been quite the time), but what makes the story airless and impotent is the abrupt identity crisis it has with itself during the final act. Joe plans to fight the same idiot that punched him in an open field, which makes sense seeing how he was humiliated and is now being taught to be defensive. But wait; Meg believes it's wrong and Joe is how he is and manipulating your natural personality is wrong.Now we've walked into not only a morality issue, but a thematic issue all together. What moral is Joe Somebody communicating? Is it wrong to fight back in a situation where you've been humiliated and ashamed, or is it right to let everything go? The film shows both in a positive, life-affirming light. So which one do we walk away with? Having a movie go back on its theme is a crucial blow to not only its likability, but also, its purpose.As far as performances go, Allen is okay in his role as Joe, kind of uninspired and rather unremarkable, much like his character, and Bowen's value stems only as her role as a good love interest here. Other than that, performances can't be the saving grace here.Joe Somebody was directed by John Pasquin, who manned the camera in two other Tim Allen projects, those being The Santa Clause (unseen by me) and the loathsome Jungle 2 Jungle. While Pasquin is clearly intentioned on making this a favorable parable, it quickly spirals into predictable situations and uninspired banter between characters who are nice enough to spend fifteen to twenty minutes with, but ninety-eight minutes begins to stretch the line of tolerance.Starring Tim Allen, Julie Bowen, Hayden Panettiere, Patrick Warburton, and Jim Belushi. Directed by John Pasquin. "},{"Title":"In this Tim Allen miss, the only person who is truly an adult is the young girl in the middle.","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" We all know Tim Allen is a great, heart-warming, nice actor. He's done so many great and funny roles. However in the break of 2000, this decade hasn't been very successful for him. With a weak film here and there, his career this decade has been horrible. Maybe Tim Allen should stop making movies. Or maybe, he just has to pick up his act together and continue this decade well.Joe Somebody is about a man named Joe Scheffer. He is a man who has a daughter who is the most important thing to him in life. Some young, no-name actress plays her and her character is much of a tomboy, you mistake her of being a young boy sometimes. So Joe takes her to his office for Take Your Kids to Work Day. While there, he has a problem with an employee he doesn't like and gets beat up in a fight in front of his daughter. Everyone witnessing believes it's a funny but cruel act. So Joe is determined to show his daughter that he is a strong man so he starts to train in a dojo. Jim Belushi plays the man who teaches him how to fight and they work hard in the film to prepare Joe for the fight. However this concept is just horrible for a 98-minute feature and in my opinion isn't even worth for a sub-plot.Overall, Joe Somebody is an unwatchable, uncomfortable and mostly unfunny comedy. The daughter of Joe seems to be the only one grown up in the film with the maturity she shows. Nerds will like this one because they can learn to fight however football players like me laugh at this concept. Joe Somebody has some good jokes and has a horrible ending. However, this film has a moral and is a good film for some kids.My Rating 5/10 (Generous, it's my Christmas gift to it you could say)Eliason A. "},{"Title":"You waste your time and they do not even fight","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought that that would make most people not watch this if they have not seen it.  It sucks.  There is not one funny party.  I have no doubt that Tim Allen is probably a pretty funny guy, but his movies sure don't do anything to make me believe that.  Home Improvement was an okay show when I was 13 but I don't think he was really funny in that either.  "},{"Title":"Joe 'Chick  Flick' Somebody","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I am not remotely suggesting that fighting solves anything, but Joe Somebody is a chick flick. The women metaphorically castrate a docile guy and make him even more docile. My point is that 1) it's a movie, 2) a movie is made to be entertaining, so 3) this movie will entertain women and teens. (NOTE Others commented that this movie is 1) a kids movie, and 2) too sugary - AMEN!)There is another point - why is it that people in Hollowood think they can teach lessons? (There's a scene where it is mentioned that the movie industry is filled with sociopaths - ironic.) So see it if you have a kid and feel that movies teach lessons. (yeesh) This movie rates as a top PSA.- ZafoidPS It's always good seeing Jim Belushi who plays Chuck Scarett, a Karate instructor.- Z "},{"Title":"This was a comedy.....right?","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am not even going to justify this movie with a long review. I just wanted to let you people know that if you are thinking of renting a comedy, don't rent this. I can't actually believe this movie was marketed as a comedy. Now a comedy, to me, doesn't have to have a lot of one-liners, or sight gags but it does, at some point have to be funny and I promise you, at no point was this movie EVER funny. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As I Thought.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         Tim Allen plays Joe Scheffer. A down-on-his-luck communications advisor. Nobody seems to want to know him. He meets a woman, Meg Harper and begins to like her. He's got an ex-wife, Natalie who's seeing a loser actor and Joe's sarcastic daughter, Callie. One day, it was Take Your Daughter to Work Day where Joe worked, so Joe took Callie. They were in the parking lot looking for a space. Just when they found one, another car took it. The driver was Mark McKinney (Patrick Warburton), which was bad because 1). Joe saw the parking space first and 2). The lot was for 10 year executives and Mark wasn't a 10 year executive. Joe tried talking to Mark about what happened, but Mark just slapped him around. Right at that moment, Joe was dignity stricken. He was beat up right in front of his daughter!                   Joe sat at home, a broken man. Meg came over to try and cheer him up--and it worked! Joe went to Mark's house and set up a date and time to fight him back. Joe then goes to a self defense class, taught by Chuck Scarett (Jim Belushi). Chuck taught him evasive manuevers and how to defend yourself. Joe also started getting more respect at work. Ever since everyone heard of Joe going to fight Mark, he was promoted and got to join Club 13, which was on the thirteenth floor of the building where execs played a daily game of squash. The only people who weren't too thrilled about this were Meg and Callie. He gained everyone else's respect, but it was losing theirs' that got Joe down. Finally, the day of the fight arrived. It was to take place on a school yard. Mark was ready to go, but Joe threw the fight, because he learned the most important lesson of all your family and friends, true friends, are the most important and that you can't sweat the small stuff. So after that, life for Joe Scheffer went back to normal.                  I was quite disappointed with this movie. It wasn't as good as I thought it would be, but it was an outstanding role for Tim Allen, because in all his other movies he plays an immature jerk. He was good in The Santa Clause, however. I hear they're making a sequel to it. It opens soon! So in conclusion, I would really avoid this movie if I were you. "},{"Title":"Joe Cliché","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Firstly, I need to ask myself a question&#133;Is it really that Hollywood thinks people (at least with half a brain) would truly feel satisfied with enormous clichés stories like `Joe somebody' and others around??For you to have a glance of what I mean, just check this out&#133; Joe Scheffer (Tim Allen) is a typical office-kind-of-guy loser and a very peaceful man who has perpetually worked at Minneapolis Pharmaceutical, as a producer of promotional videos for the company. One `fine' day, office bully Mark McKinney (Patrick Warburton), beat up Joe at his own parking lot in front of his daughter in a dispute for rights of parking space. Of course Joe's reputation goes down badly and so he starts taking some kung fu classes with former `action hero' Chuck Scarett (James Belushi), just to learn how to kick back.Her daughter and girlfriend advice him not to fight back and leave things behind, as a `mature' attitude, but As you know&#133; he will eventually experience all of that training packed with all of the same burned jokes related to preparing a loser to kick back, and would get his revenge, just in time before McKinney comes back to work after some weeks of suspension.After this, all is left are annoying sequences, related most of them, to a very dull and corny `fight' directed as a maybe a Rebel-without-a-cause wanna be duel. This situation will lead us to one of the tasteless clichés endings I've ever seen in my entire life.The movie spend most of its time presenting the same sequences over and over, which to be honest, never changed at all after the first 15 minutes of the movie. It seemed there was no room for something else than that, and of course it killed the movie so bad. The dialogues were so poor and became even worst at the end.The only good thing is in their soundtrack, which has very nice and fresh songs that couldn't do much for the movie. It's too much weight to carry on, right?Actually, I haven't answered myself the question above, have I? "},{"Title":"Trailer is very deceptive to language and story.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have not been as disappointed in a movie, rating, and advertisement of a movie in my entire life.  During the Christmas holiday's I took my wife, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, and nephew to this movie based upon the advertisements that we had seen for this film.Very early into the movie the language was that of none other that I have ever heard in a PG film.  It was a complete disgrace!!!  Finally, after hearing the swear GD I had enough and left the theater.As a customer I was furious. As a parent I am OUTRAGED!!! There is no rating system when a film is allowed to have the frequency of, level of offense, and language in a movie.  It will be a very long time before I am a Patron of a Fox Movie again. "}{"Title":"Joe, Somebody's got a mouth! (not a spoiler, but a warning for parents)","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The PG (NOT PG-13) rating given to Joe Somebody duped my wife and I into taking our young boys (age 8 and 4) to the movie over the Christmas holiday. How many times did Tim Allen and Jim Belushi trade the term kick my *ss/kick your *ss?  Lots of times is how many -- dozens!  And each time, my boys were soaking it in.  Additionally, terms like sh*t and god****it were used nonchalantly by the cast, including the protagonist.  I'm no prude, but I'm also not anxious for my children to absorb that much profanity for no good reason. Beyond the language, let me say of the movie that I couldn't figure out what Joe Somebody wanted to be (well, beyond a formulaic commercial success) -- a knee-slapping farce, a love story, a buddy movie, a chick flick, a kid's story ...?  In that regard, I'm afraid the movie fails because it can't seem to lock in on a genre. Ultimately, I was hard-pressed to figure out what message the story wanted to send me until it didn't really matter anymore.  By the time the message (be yourself and be at peace with who you are) was apparent, I just wanted to cover my childrens' ears and leave the theater.   "},{"Title":"What The Hell Kind Of Family Movie Is This?","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Once upon a time, I would guess, there was a spec script floating around Hollywood.  A sensitive, adult-oriented and thought provoking piece about a man who loses his dignity in front of his daughter, and feels the need to make changes in his life.  Sort of an American Beauty type thing, though not as phony.And lo and behold, it was optioned by Twentieth Century Fox.  They liked it very much, but they thought some changes were necessaryLets make it a family movie and put Tim Allen in it, said one Fox executive who, for sake of this narrative, we shall call Steve.  It shall be a Christmas movie, and will make us untold millions!  And all the other little Fox executives clapped and cheered and Rupert Murdoch himself gave Steve a lovely corner office.The production of this film, which Steve himself decided to call Joe Somebody, was set into motion.  It was to be directed by John Pasquin, who is known in some third-world countries as the Anti-Christ for his work on Jungle 2 Jungle.  Steve worked hard on this movie, trying to train every bit of originality and warmth out of this once beautiful and thought-provoking script.  It was now a parable against revenge and was marketed for the thirteen and under crowd and their parents, all the while Steve was ignorant of the possibility that kids might cry when they see Tim Allen assaulted in a parking lot while his daughter looks on.  He was also ignorant of the possibility that adults will raise their eyebrows when they see not only Julie Bowen in lingerie, but also that a supposed family film has product placement from Miller Lite beer and Parliament cigarettes.Not that Steve could kill the movie entirely; some viewers could still see the passionate film that made up the foundation of the tame and boring family movie.And then the movie opened.  It was a mistake to make it a Christmas release, for opening two days earlier was the first installment of The Lord of the Rings, which is a masterpiece.  And opening that same day was Jimmy Neutron Boy Genius, which does for kids what Steve would never have dreamed Joe Somebody would do.And Joe Somebody, which began so humbly, bombed out at the box office.  It didn't even make as much money as How High, which didn't get promoted on any of the major television networks!  And poor Steve now works mopping up the floors at the Adult Emporium.And all the people who saw The Lord of the Rings The Fellowship of the Ring lived happily ever after.  The End.** out of 4   "},{"Title":"So-So","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Somebody is a movie nearly as unassuming as it's protagonist. The premise was certainly ripe for a feel-good family comedy...perhaps a more grown-up version of My Bodyguard? But the script by John Scott Sheppard is rather dull and unimaginative. Thinly written, with no memorable dialogue at all and totally predictable, the film squeaks by on a few scattered laughs and a little bit of charm. Director John Pasquin can't seem to do much to juice up the overly familiar story or give it any momentum. The whole thing is frustrating as it plods along and ultimately fails to build to any satisfying climax. You'll feel pretty much short-changed at the end. And Tim Allen seems out of place playing a shy, insecure schlub. As he's shown in the past, on TV's Home Improvements and in other films such as The Santa Clause and the (much superior) Galaxy Quest, he's much better as the snarky, smart-alecky, slightly foolhardy macho man that's closer to the persona he exudes in his stand-up routine. The movie's real comic secret weapon is Jim Belushi, who appears to be the only cast member to make the most of the situation and milk maximum laughs out of the bland and blah script. Despite my carpings, this movie is not exactly terrible, and it's certainly fit for family viewing, but it IS disappointing and mostly forgettable. It looks and plays like a standard TV movie and might play better there. I don't imagine many repeat viewings, however. My rating ** stars "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, but no new ground is broken here.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Joe Somebody is an enjoyable movie with a very watchable cast and interesting premise.  However, it doesn't live up to it's promise.  While the idea behind the story (being publicly humiliated at work, and what you would do about it) has a great deal of promise, the subject is explored only superficially and no new ground is broken.Tim Allen is funny, but subdued and his talent seems to be wasted.  Julie Bowen plays her Carol character from Ed.  Jim Belushi is fairly funny, but most of the other roles are just caricatures.The movie was moderately enjoyable, but if I spent the full price of a ticket rather than paying a matinee price, I would have been disappointed. Bottom line for me is that this movie is forgettable fluff that is better seen when it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Not too good, but watchable.","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Saw this in the theater a few days ago. It was great in the beginning, Tim Allan rocked. he made a good point, wanting to take revenge on the guy, so he took Martial Arts classes. The comedy was ok not great. If you like hearing the a curse after seemingly every word this is the movie for you.The Comedy was not great at all, but even if it has better comedy, it still would have been dumb because of all the drama mixed into it. it was so unrealistic. IF TOU DONT LIKE SPOILERS DO NOT READ THE REST OF THIS PARAGRAPH!! At one point the girl's mother was wearing a coat and the girl asked her to take it off and u saw her PJ's. She did. Then the mother slept with her. How stupid is that?If you like comedy drama, but thought this movie stunk try The Animal. It rocked. "},{"Title":"Just okay.....","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I am a huge Tim Allen fan, but even he couldn't save this runaway train of a film. It was too sappy, not even the holiday movie that it's made out to be. It was like a seriously toned down version of American Beauty, aimed towards kids. I only hope Big Trouble is as good as it looks. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought, but that's considering","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really didn't know much about Joe Somebody before I saw it except that it starred Tim Allen as an average Joe who wants to fight a guy who hit him in front of his daughter.  But from that it looked like a good concept that more or less resulted to work as a family film and/or for fans of Allen. It's predictable in spots, but it actually brings some actual realism here and there which you definitely wouldn't expect here (and Allen isn't a bad actor here).  B or B- "},{"Title":"Pretty awful","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" JOE SOMEBODY is about a middle-age shlub getting beat up by a bigger guy and then having to face him down in a playground rematch, surrounded by dozens of his work colleagues. This could just as easily have been called THREE O'CLOCK HIGH 2, except it lacks the acting, the script and the offbeat charm of that 1987 Phil Joanou classic. Tim Allen is no Casey Siemaszko and watching a divorced, over-the-hill adult preparing for The Big Fight lacks the bittersweet appeal of watching a runty adolescent rising to the occasion. In fact, Tim Allen is downright awful in the lead here, very hangdog and minus a single iota of personality. The thought that either Kelly Lynch as Allen's ex-wife or Julie Bowen as his new love interest would have the slightest interest in this shlmiel is beyond comprehension. By the way, Lynch is very fetching in one sequence where she is wearing a red teddy under her coat and Bowen has a tasty scene walking around her apartment in some very sheer underwear, but that's about all the appeal this movie holds. Jim Belushi, perhaps best remembered for K-9, where he was easily upstaged by a dog, is wasted as a washed-out actor turned martial arts trainer. Allen should stick with sequels to GALAXY QUEST, by far his best movie. "},{"Title":"turn-off","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The title of this comment catches both the plot and the feeling of this movie. Joe Average, i beg your pardon, Somebody, gets beaten up and tries to regain his dignity by taking out his opponent with a little training by a former martial arts stuntman, but chooses not to respond with violence in the end. As exemplary as this script may be, it is not my style. Give the bully one in the yarbles, i'd say. I kind of dug Tim Allen on 'Home Improvement' and i had certain expectations watching a feature-length comedy of his for the first time. Unfortunately, his character Joe isn't nearly as funny as ...er, the tool guy, which brings his personality back to what he tries to be in this movie  a loser. The only reason why this soft comedy kept my attention, was the presence of James Belushi, who performs with as much refreshing charisma as on 'Royce' or 'K-9', and Greg Hermann, better known as Richard Fich ... as a matter of fact, he just plays Richard Fish the way his Ally Mc Beal character would be in the real world  a vicious, backstabbing ass. Worth a watch if you are a feel-good movie fanatic or a Belushi fan, but buy only the VHS ... it'll deteriorate along with your sympathy. "},{"Title":"not all that funny","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This wasn't awful but yet just barely entertaining. The sequences with Belushi were about the best. I'm glad to see a decent 'moral of the story' movie pop up but it's too bad it was wasted here. Something was missing although I'm not sure exactly what... Sidebar A definite negative in the movie was a comment by a black woman to a white one,'White girls can't dance'. Look,how much longer do we have to sit through this racial garbage? If the comment was made 'Black girls can't read' by a white one,I can just imagine the explosion that would go off. I certainly don't condone racism in ANY direction,so why is it a free for all on whites,orientals,mexicans and middle easterners? 5/10 "}{"Title":"clique, unrealistic, hardly entertaining","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the movie starts out fine...it seemed it would be about an unpopular man who gets slapped in front of his daughter and seeks revenge, and will fight the man..but then i remembered that the movie was rated PG and this would not happen. ofcourse his love interest is disgusted at joes sudden popularity and his vow to beat up mckinley. blah blah blah. fighting is wrong. yea, fighting doesnt settle anything. why must hollywood shove this down kids throats? so the movie just drags on. the only interesting characters are allen's daughter and jim belushi. without them, the movie would be horrible. so i guess by saying he doesnt fight mckinley i havent spoiled the movie for anyone..you can basically predict that within 15 minutes into the movie. eh...the vivolin commercials are the beginning were funny, and coley has some funny lines, so i would give the movie a 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Not really a comedy","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't say that this was a bad movie, but it wasn't really a comedy either. It was more of a feel-good romance story with a message about being yourself and doing what you really want to do rather than doing things that will make others like you or that are somebody else's idea of success.The three main characters, Joe, Meg - the Wellness co-ordinator at the Pharmaceutical Corporation where Joe works and Joe's daughter experience that sort of realisation during the film and in the end are better people and happier for doing what they want to do and being who they want to be.As such, the film has a positive moral and happy ending. But it's definitely more cheesy than funny. The funniest part is probably the advertisement for one of the drugs. "},{"Title":"God Awful, and that aint no joke!","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One day a couple of friends and I were milling around my house looking for something to do. We had exhausted my DVD library, when I stumbled upon a Blockbuster previously viewed copy of Joe Somebody. We figured that it had to provide us with a smorgsaborg of laughs, chuckles and guffaws. When the movie was over we all felt absolutely drained of life, the very ambition to continue moving and breathing having been sucked right out of us.First of all, the George S. Clinton score is quite something to contemplate. The opening credits sequence that seems to go on for a good fifteen minutes is scored with a monotonous and repetitive piano flourish. Apparently the director felt this little loop of music was applicable to any situation in the movie which leads to the music's gross overuse.I can't emphasize enough how badly done this movie is. I don't mean this in an ignorant, this is a pg kids movies, I wont even give it a chance, I mean that every aspect of this movie is ham-handedly done. I have nothing against Tim ALlen or any of his fellow actors in this movie, but as I watch it I can hear the ignorant, dumbassed direction that was given to these people. Obvioulsly a talentless, hack amateur directed this movie, and I feel that I can say this safely without having ever met the guy. Each scene the actors are trying to capture a certain emotional response without any sense of context. It gives the impression that every character is bi-polar. Also, there are several subplots that are introduced throughout the film and just when you think that the movie will do the smart thing and start picking up these threads, they go nowhere.I can only recommend this movie for the disturbingly surreal scene in which Tim Allen taps his scrotum with a 'squash' rackett, revealing that his balls are literally made of steel. "},{"Title":"It'll Make Money on Rentals","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This isn't a bad film and some of the acting, especially child actress Hayden Panettiere, is very good.  It has some good laughs and the outcome isn't as predictable as first appears to be the case.I have one big caveat while this picture has a PG rating (and I don't have a problem with the lingerie scene or the product placement) it definitely should not be seen by young children of divorced or separated parents who have issues about their family's division (and, too often, parents are blind to what their kids are feeling).  The young daughter assumes an adult, supporting role for both parents - the exact type of misplaced responsibility that is as inappropriate as it is often foisted onto kids. I'm a single parent and I saw the film with my very bright twelve-year-old who thoroughly enjoyed it but I would have hesitated to take him had I known the role Joe's daughter would be playing.  He, however and luckily, had no problem with the scenario. "},{"Title":"The most predictable movie ever made","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie about a week before it came out. The second I got out of the theatre I called people to tell them not to come. This movie was, by far, the most predictable, cliché-filled movie ever produced. It was so ugly, it could be a modern-art masterpiece This movie was one of the first movies I have been in where the entire audience shared a very loud BOOOOOO!!!! at the end. SPOILER If the plot revolves around preparing for something the audience knows wont happen, even though thats suppose to be the surprise ending, THE MOVIE WILL SUCK. And no, i'm not ripping on this movie because it had a terrible ending, but also because there was nothing in between to grip the audiences...at all! ONE OUT OF TEN STARS. "},{"Title":"Ending ruins the film","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie isn't all that bad... its cliched and generally not original at all... but makes for some good light watching.  However, the ending is possibly the most unimaginative i have ever seen. Dull and anti-climatic. I know this isnt supposed to be magnolia or the shawshank redemption but you cannot justify that as an ending. Semi-SPOILERGive your gracious speech AFTER you beat the guy up. Tim Allen's character is supposed to a Phoenix rising from the ashes... seeking revenge. Like the bride in Kill Bill... He should beat the crap out of the guy then do his G-rated fighting is the not the answer bit. Also, it provides a funny insight into corporate America with the company culture in club 18. See also Office Space. Summary before the ending... i was surprised, its actually an ok light family flick. "},{"Title":"Tim Allen sucks...","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  so what else is new. I have never really liked Tim Allen's movies or TV shows, and this is a perfect example why.  This movie is aweful from the plot to acting.  And I'm not sure if it was supposed to be a comedy or a story about a kid or more of a drama.  That was how awful the whole concept of this film was.  I did like Tim Allen's daughter, who I think can be a good actress in the future. But, other than her, the rest of this movie was trash.FINAL VERDICT You are better off to just avoid everything Tim Allen does. "},{"Title":"'Somebody' is a nobody in comedy","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  **Starring Tim Allen, Hayden Panettiere, Jim Belushi, and Patrick Warburton.A man brings his daughter to his work.  When a big bully takes his parking spot, Joe wants to look tough in front of his daughter.  He ends up being decked in the face.  Now, Joe wants revenge.The movie has a fun plot and great acting.  But the comedy takes itself too far.  For instance, there IS such a thing as too many kick-in-the-crotch jokes. "},{"Title":"Awful movie","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I hate this movie. It is the most pointless and utter waste of time Tim Allen has ever agreed to. Even the ending goes absolutely nowhere. And did anyone else notice they added that little bit They named a sandwich after me just to the preview? It wasn't even a part of the movie or even a deleted scene. THEY ADDED THE LINE to the preview. How sad is that? They couldn't find enough interesting parts so they had to make some up. This movie does not have ONE SINGLE redeeming quality. I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"Pathetic Tim Allen Vehicle","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Pathetic is the one word that describes this infantile male revenge fantasy the best.  And, it uses Take-Our-Daughters-To-Work day in all the wrong ways as its impetus.  Julie Bowen (from TV's Ed) is completely implausible as a supportive co-worker.  James Belushi clearly has no interest in his character, and neither do we.  Greg Germann plays the boss exactly as he plays Richard Fish on Ally McBeal but with less funny lines.  This movie aimed low, trying for innocuous comedy, and still missed the entire target by thirty feet. "}{"Title":"I've had more fun at a womens' studies lecture","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this on the big screen on dollar movie night. There's nothing like dollar movie night. After watching a string of OK movies every Wednesday I sat down to see 'Joe Somebody'.I don't think I've ever walked out on a movie before. Every movie seems to have at least some sort of entertainment value. I almost walked out on 'Joe Somebody'. Tho I stayed till the end, the movie didn't really improve. It's hard to say what was so 'bad' about this movie. Perhaps I felt it was insulting my intelligence. I think mostly I just didn't care about any of the characters, or if I did care, none of their actions seemed to matter. I don't think it was a matter of knowing the message already. I didn't know how the movie was going to end. It may have been I just didn't believe the build up. That after agreeing to the fight he suddenly becomes the most popular guy at work.Joe Somebody may have just struck too close to home for me. Who knows? I was like trying to turn my head away for the whole movie, perhaps. Maybe for me, the whole movie was like one long love scene. The kiss or embrace at the end a movie often builds up to. I was trying to turn my head away, trying to resist the brainwashing of the love scene! Can a man stand 2 hours of a love scene? I think not. Surely now we know a way to break AlQuida terrorists. . . "},{"Title":"Predictable + Half-Baked + Forgettable + Lacking consistent humour  + Mediocrity = Joe Somebody","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Joe Somebody is one of those cookie-cutter mediocre films where we can predict the ending long before it actually happens. Not only that, but our 'hero' (Tim Allen) is unconvincingly made into a better person as the film progresses (what the hell?). He starts out as a nobody, who wants revenge on a bully who humiliated him, but becomes a somebody after proclaiming revenge and then refraining from fighting the bully. Along the way, he falls in love. (Get it? That's why they call it Joe Somebody). I think I have seen this plot line many times before, only I don't know where.Another issue with this 'comedy' that I have is that there are only two real laughs to be had One where Joe (how American!) reveals that he has steel balls and a line where Jim Belushi says It was maximum punishment to watch it. (after a film called Maximum Punishment) I didn't cringe at the film, but I got nothing out of this film either. I was living in the hope that Joe would beat the hell out of the bully, but of course I knew in my heart that he wouldn't and of course, he didn't. The romance is (for me anyway) meant to be awkward, but I felt no emotion when seeing Julie Bowen and Allen interact.The acting is OK I guess, but let's face it, anyone can play Tim Allen's role as a nobody. Ditto Julie Bowen's role as the love interest and Patrick Warburton as the bully. Every time I see Tim, he's starring in a sub-par or worse film look at Christmas with the Kranks. Shame.Overall, this is not a terrible movie, just a sub-par one. If you like predictable, half-baked, forgettable comedies, then this is for you.2/5 stars "},{"Title":"One for Bin Laden","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So our hero is just too honourable to fight...The baddie gets off free, (he'll think about forgiveness later...) all ends with sweetness and light, and the unicorns exchange nuzzles and kisses......Welcome to Wussville, population - USA.Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan - at least the Roman Empire went down fighting,the USA gets Tim Allen brushing away a (manly) tear.So this guy goes into a biker bar and gets thrown out on his rear end. He goes to Japan and studies three years with the best karate expert in the world - by the end he can break paving slabs with his bare hands. So one night he strolls back into the biker bar - and this time he gets hurt so bad they throw him out right across the street. As he lies there in the blood and mucous - he reaches out and breaks a paving slab with his bare hands....Worst movie ever - thanks Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Joe Blow","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have now managed to finally catch all of JOE SOMEBODY, the tale of an anonymous office schnook (Tim Allen) who challenges the office bully (Puddy from SEINFELD) to a fight in the company parking lot. Sound familiar? Allen is only moderately entertaining in the nebbish role, although the very cute Hayden P. is on hand as his sensitive and very bright daughter. The laughs do not exactly roll along as the director tries to walk a fine line between comedy and mawkish drama. The best parts of the film concern Allen training under a has-been actor and martial arts master played by the thoroughly out-of-shape Jim Belushi. Seeing Allen get slapped around by the beer-swilling Belushi somewhat helps make up for all of the terrible films Allen has appeared in over the last 20 years. Some of the quieter moments involving Allen and a sympathetic office colleague played by Julie Bowen also are worth a look. As a whole, the film is too long and boring. The ultimate showdown between Allen and Puddy is not worth sitting through the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Officially the WORST film EVER","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie had no storyline or character development.I did not laugh once, although it was meant to be a comedy.It was just a series of random events.There was no climax.The story did not build up to anything.No beginning, no end.I nearly destroyed my DVD player after watching this.This movie was appalling. It is a disgrace to the Western world.Why would Tim Allen stoop so low? Heck if he needed the money, I would've given it to him. "}]