[{"Title":"Funny Movie...If taken for face value!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have read a few other reviews for SORORITY BOYS in which the reviewer states that the movie is horribly written, cheesy acting, lame gags, etc...  My only response to those comments is, What were you expecting?  A moving piece of great proportions, likely to be nominated for 10 Oscars???This movie is nothing more than an attempt to make some money off of those who are fans of teen sex romps.  Those who walked into this movie expecting a sophisticated film, you missed the point!!!  This movie is about cross-dressing guys, it's supposed to be cheesy and lame; and that is what makes it so funny.If taken at face value and appreciate it for what it is worth, SORORITY BOYS is a laugh riot.  It is a usual sec comedy, but it is funny and clever at some times.  While it is definitely not the milestone movie for the 2002 year, it is funny and worth the time (if you like these types of movies).Lesson Learned Do not go see teen movies expecting to be moved, these movies are made for one reason and that is to make money off an audience.  For some good laughs, SORORITY BOYS rates a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Has its moments .....","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Probably the cheapest laugh in all of comedy is putting a guy in drag, hell, they were probably doing it in ancient Egypt to get Pharoah to bust a gut when nothing else worked. And in this case they've got not one but three, the first two of which are barely passable as girls and the third looking like the spitting image of the big redhead that Arnold disguises himself as in Total Recall. The whole plot is based on three members of Kappa Omicron Kappa (not exactly a subtly acronym) getting kicked out of their fraternity after they were set up and accused of stealing the alumni party funds. They need to sneak back in their old house to recover a videotape that will prove their innocence. Their first scheme is to dress up as girls and get in during a party, but they quickly get ejected by the dog catcher whose job it is to get rid of ugly girls. While still in drag, they are invited to pledge the ultra-feminist Delta Omicron Gamma sorority (another non-subtle joke) and, since they've no food, money or lodging, they accept. The rest of the movie is about their awkward attempts to keep up their ruse and fit in with a bunch of sorority girls, all the while scheming to get back that tape. Naturally, much of the laughs come as the girls are forced to adjust to their new roles and dealing with stuff like leg shaving and walking (badly) in heels, although in the process these formerly crude horndogs learn to start appreciating women as more than just object to either lust after (if they're hot) or make fun of (if they're not). Fortunately, they don't get too heavy on the feminist message stuff, at least not enough to get in the way of the humor. And there's a fun little love twist in which one of the boys starts falling for the sorority president, Leah. Her character's a bit of a modern movie cliche, like Julia Stiles in 10 Things I Hate About You she's supposed to be this bitchy, angry, ugly man hating feminist but is simply too good natured and good looking to really fool anyone. Of course, the twist is, as a boy (in her Women's Studies class) she hates him, but as a girl, she starts to develop feelings for her. Naturally, once she learns the truth she's initially outraged, but seeing as this is a simple comedy and not something like Chasing Amy, she quickly relents and all ends well. This is by no means a great comedy, it's definitely a rent, don't buy kind of movie, but considering I had no real expectations other that to get about 90 minutes of shut-off-your-brain entertainment, I must say it wasn't bad.6/10 "},{"Title":"Love the movie.","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  ohhhh, look at this little handbag, this would go perfect with my shoesies! -Doofer/ RobertaEach character was so hilarious with all their roles. I loved Doofer/Roberta the most out of the three guys that went to the DOG sorority house, I also loved Jimmy (the guy that hit on Adina. I don't think it received that good of rating which is a shame because the movie was hilarious. I loved the awkward part in the end when Adam and jimmy are sitting at dinner together after everything has transpired and Jimmy knows what he had done to his best friend, the look on his face was priceless! Anyone who hasn't seen this movie needs to. "},{"Title":"Good Sorority Humor","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was excited when Sorority Boys came out on video and DVD it's one of the funniest comedies of 2002. Barry Watson , Harland Williams and Michael Rosebaum were hysterical in their roles. Most thought it was another mindless sex comedy , but actually I found it to be more better than some of the other gross out college comedies.When best friends Dave (Watson), Adam (Rosenbaum) & Doofer (Williams) are accused of stealing money for an end of the year party they are kicked out of their fraternity Kappa Omicron Kappa . With no money left and nowhere to live they disguise themselves as women and are accepted into Delta Omicron Gamma D.O.G.. A sorority made up of girls who didn't make it into other sororities. Now the boys are experiencing a whole new life, learning about how badly they've treated women over the years. Meanwhile Dave finds himself falling for Leah (Sagemiller) while at the same time being a gal pal to her. Sorority Boys is one of those films that make you laugh harder than before 7/10 "},{"Title":"If you need a good laugh","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While the movie may be predictable, it is, I found it in many scenes, a laugh out loud movie. Ya, while ya wonder why nobody notices that they are guys, and Barry's love interest doesn't recognize that it's him, even though she is his study partner by day and they are girlfriends by night, but overlook that and enjoy an entertaining movie. The 3 guys really are funny. The football game scene's could have been a little more realistic. I mean, come'on, girls knocking guys out on the field is a little far fetched but it's a movie...you know.. make believe! Barry Watson and Harland Williams are great but to me Michael Rosenbaum stole the show. His expressions, falling off his shoes, the fight scene with Barry Watson, he just cracked me up. And looks like he could be Chevy Chase's son, which I checked and he's not. If ya not looking for an Academy Award winner, and ya just want to be entertained and have a good laugh, this is the movie. "},{"Title":"Hits The Spot It Was Made For","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Here's the thing. This is not Shakespeare. But I doubt anyone involved with the movie was under that impression in the first place. This is a funny college romp that made me laugh on a Sunday afternoon. It brought me back to my college days of drinking and hanging out with girls. But it also has the requisite heart. The sorority is a group of reject girls who all have something to offer. The frat is a group of insensitive stereotypes who get their comeuppance in the end. If you want some nice familiar humor that hits all the appropriate notes in the genre (think National Lampoon, or Ryan Reynolds, or Stifler) this is a good bet. "},{"Title":"Michael Rosenbaum is kind of pretty","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is probably for 12 year old boys and people who like the actors.  I like Michael Rosenbaum and Harland Williams so I wasn't that disappointed.  Of course, after seeing the trailers I was expecting a D movie so it was actually better than I thought it would be.  There is quite a bit in the movie to offend people who like to be offended.  Personally, speaking as an ugly girl who would be kicked out of frat parties (although why any girl would want to be at a frat party in the first place is beyond me), I wasn't offended because I'm too apathetic to get worked up about the messages in a badly written movie.  What bothered me a lot more were the dropped plot points all throughout the film.  There are too many to mention so I won't.  It is also much easier for me to ignore the fact that the guys looked like guys and no one noticed- suspension of disbelief in favor of going with the main plotline- than it is for me to ignore the fact that they wore dresses and pumps and carried little purses to college classes.  Or that the president of the cool fraternity was such a complete dork.  Long story short, there are just SO many things wrong with this movie that if you aren't the type who can shut off the critical or easily offended portions of your brain and just enjoy Michael Rosenbaum looking pretty in a mini-skirt and heels (or skinny girls in wet t-shirts for some of you) then you don't want to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Walk a Mile in Their Heels","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sorority Boys is a meeting of Animal House and Some Like It Hot. Sad to say the mix didn't benefit the film. Even Animal House looks like Hamlet by comparison.Barry Watson, Michael Rosenbaum, and Harland Williams are a trio of shallow fraternity boys who have the sexist attitudes so prevalent in college fraternities. They're in the creme de la creme fraternity and of course get only the best looking women on campus. It also follows that they treat the women in the feminist sorority like dogs. In fact the female fraternity is Delta Omega Gamma.But when they are accused of pilfering the fraternity funds and drummed out of the place, they realize that place's taping system where they record their sexual encounters might just contain evidence of who really did it. Our three lugnuts decide to go back in drag to the fraternity house for evidence, but when they get thrown out for not meeting fraternity standards, they have to keep up the pretense, especially when Melissa Sagemiller takes pity on them and invites them to the Delta Omega Gamma sorority. Our boys still in drag bond with the women in ways they never expected.You know the thing that struck me here is that Barry Watson has a nice growth of chest hair which was on display a few times on Seventh Heaven and other films. He shaved it here to keep the drag illusion going. Was this film worthy of that sacrifice Barry.Sorority Boys is strictly for the crowd that likes American Pie, Porky's, and Animal House. If you aren't into those films, don't bother. "},{"Title":"I was pleasantly surprised!","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After reading several comments on Sorority Boys, I prepared myself for a really lame gross-out comedy with plenty of dick and fart jokes and a wide array of breasts. Fortunately I was very much wrong! While the movie does have a couple of moments that reminded me of There's Something About Mary and more than a couple boob shots, it was all done in good fun. I never once had the urge to look at my watch and found myself laughing out loud on more than one occasion. It was great to see how typical guys would react to being in a woman's shoes (physically and emotionally) and maybe learn a little something about how they should treat a woman in return. All in all, it was a feel-good comedy, and by the end of the movie you saw a lot of character development. I can't say that I have made a *completely* unbiased evaluation of the movie, because my main motivation for seeing it was a certain Sexy Lexy of televisions Smallville, but all in all I found it well worth my six dollars and hour and a half. However, I don't recommend that *everyone* go see it. There are many people who are far too critical of movies and don't believe that they can be just for fun (you know who you are) but think they should have some deep philosophical meaning. If you're one of THOSE people don't go see this movie!! For those of you who can enjoy a movie at face value (and then some in this case) go check it out! And if you're interested in seeing adorable shots of the main cast in drag, stay for the credits!! I gave it a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Bloody Brilliant!!!!!","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a great movie. So funny, I laughed and I laughed. I know its not that original but hey, those guys were good. Michaels legs make any woman envious. I give them all thumbs up for being brave in pantyhose. Hip Hip hooray. "}{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For those New Yorkers who are frugal and would rather not spend a minimum of 10 bucks to see a movie, then this is a movie to rent.  Better watched at home than on the big screen, this movie is light and very funny.  I guarantee that you will laugh at least a couple of times.  The humor is at times twisted and at times offensive but it's not too perverted.  You'll enjoy this funny look at the world of women seen through the eyes of the men.  However, if watching with children, please note that the movie does contain nude scenes and foul language. "},{"Title":"WORTH SEEING!!!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  sorority boys is sooo worth seeing!!! Its hilarious for both sexes who may be watching it and a good laugh is guaranteed! The cast was excellent too with my favourite being the gorgeous jimmy played by Tony Denman! Please go and see it because you wont regret it. ) "},{"Title":"DOGs are OK in this movie","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  DOG, which are the letters for the geeky girl soriety on campus, show they can outdo the tri-pis.  In this movie, 3 guys join DOG because they get kicked out of their fraturnity for theft. They need to get back into their frat house to get a video tape that will prove they aren't the ones that stole the money. So, in order to get in the house, they think dressing in drag will do the trick, plus they get free room and board at the DOG house. Of couse, the president of DOG, is a really hot blonde, who is supposed to be geeky because she wears glasses. Like we haven't seen that before.So, the few laughs come from the guys in drag in awkard situations. Such as when one guy takes  a shower with the hot blonde who can't tell he's a guy because she isn't wearing her glasses. As if! And of course, the uncomfortableness of them wearing dresses. And being hit on by some of their frat brothers. But, one thing I can't get over with movies like this is that the 3 guys are obvious male and not women, but everyone they see falls for the drag get-up. I mean, you can see their beards.And you know how it ends, the 3 guys who didn't think much of the DOG girls, think they are OK, and not such geeks after living with them. And the hot blonde ends up with one of the guys.FINAL VERDICT  It's OK. There are some laughs. I recommend it if you are wanting some semi-raunchy fun, but it is no where near as good as raunchy comedies like American Pie. "},{"Title":"I have a fat aaaass!","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The way that he says that, has to be one of THE funniest spoken lines in film history, it's just the way his mouth opens so wide to say it and.... OK.Sorry. Barry Watson, feeling the role of the woman a little too much there I think. Got into it very well! He seemed quite good as a woman, really is a pretty boy.Good laughs in this film, it's cute, rude, funny, and just idiotic and I loved every minute of it - do it again!, do it again! I will not say anything about the plot of the film, I just wanted to acknowledge those couple of bits of acting technique - haha! I love it when you braid my hair. "},{"Title":"Good time waster","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorority Boys is nothing more than a good time waster.The film does have some funny moments and the three male leads all have good chemistry together. While I think the film could have used more nudity it's still a good film with some pretty sexy women in it.If you wanna  waste some time then check this one out. "},{"Title":"Fine Holiday Fun.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm one of those chicks that can appreciate a good movie for what it is.  Lately I've been done to death by movies like Beautiful Mind and Monster's Ball.  Don't get me wrong I enjoy a good drama from time to time, but my tear ducts were begging for a vacation. Sorority Boys is a perfect mental margarita for the person who has had enough drama.  It's kind of brainless and stupid at times, but it's also really funny watching guys trying to be girls.  I was particularly taken with the performance of Michael Rosenbaum, who not only stole the show, (when the job was obviously Harland Williams') but made it more than fun to watch. Speaking as a female of the species, I was surprised that some women were offended by this movie.  So there are a lot of gratuitous boob shots, so what?  Personally, nudity doesn't offend me, the fact that none of the men are naked offends me.  If a woman truly considers herself a feminist, she must demand equal rights and not be afraid to back those beliefs up.  Where are the naked men?  Harvey Keitel isn't doin' it for me. Really, all that Sorority Boys is saying is we should all be a little more tolerant, considerate, and have fun.  The best of both worlds. I enjoyed it, and I may just check out smallville as a result.  "},{"Title":"Vulgar and delightful!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was a scream.  It's an interesting variation on the old fish-out-of-water plot.  Three college guys temporarily pose as girls and join the Delta Omicron Gamma (DOG) sorority for free rent.  Of course they have to endure the indignities of rude remarks and unwanted sexual advances, the discomfort of wearing high heels, the misery of not being pretty, etc.  But there are several unexpected turns that keep the story interesting.  It's silly and preposterous, but made me laugh all the way through.  It's a fascinating movie on many levels, too.  What are the values that this film espouses?  I never thought I'd ever see a politically correct gross-out movie.  It all so has its own sense of slyness that I quite enjoyed.  The film pokes fun at sexual stereotypes in some unexpected ways that will no doubt provide food for thought.  I loved the music and thought the cast was delightful.  I especially liked Michael Rosenbaum as the jock in drag and Tony Denman as the little guy determined to score with him.  Harland Williams grew on me.  In the powder puff football game sequence, he became my favorite character.  I thought he was a riot.  If you want Citizen Kane, this is not the flick.  If all you're looking for is laughs, this one will do the trick.  I enjoyed this movie far more than I thought I was going to.  I'm a middle aged person who usually goes for `Art' films.  I liked this movie a lot. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Of course it's childish, but the movie is a surprising gem. I wasn't expecting much from the movie. That could have been the reason I enjoyed it so much. But the goofy humor and the cheesy storyline was the perfect comfort that I needed on the hungover morning that I watched the movie. I'd recommend it just as something to watch while you're waiting to go out, or if you don't want to get out of bed. I'm not saying you should go buy it or even rent it, but if it's on TV don't turn the channel. It's definitely worth watching. Harlan Williams does a great job in this movie and is the real gem. Barry Watson's performance is decent but doesn't bring as much to the table as Williams. Join these college boys on their trip through young womanhood on an adventure that you won't soon forget. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie brings up many deep topics, and while it doesn't deal with them, it does make you think. Everything is there - questions of gender, sexuality, labels and definitions, sexism and feminism, and even rape issues. The movie glosses over them, but it's still a lot of fun. Michael Rosenbaum is one of the prettiest girls ever (Adina is a dyke icon - memorise and ponder) and the transformation and problems she encounters make for some very interesting moments. Deep, thought provoking fan discussion can be found online, including many assumptions and pretend-sequels about how the future went for the main characters. So don't just look on the shallow surface, think into deeper layers. "},{"Title":"It is my sort of humour..","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought it was a funny film.  Mind you I had heard bad reviews about the film before I saw it, so in the end I was not expecting much in return. Expecting very little from the film, I actually ended up enjoying simply because I got more entertainment value out of it than expected.  Good for a laugh, although I would not purchase the film, just rent it. "}{"Title":"Cameos","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Funny movie! Reminded me a lot of ANIMAL HOUSE, especially all the cameos of stars from ANIMAL HOUSE! I saw Stephen Furst (Flounder), James Daughton (Greg Marmalard), Mark Metcalf (Neidermeyer) and John Vernon (Dean Wormer). I loved hunting to see if there was anyone else! I may have missed some... "},{"Title":"The best film of the year!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, so the year hasn't been that long, but I've seen a lot of movies this year so far, and this has definitely been the best one. The jokes may be stupid, but they are hilarious. I was laughing along w/ everyone else in the theater from the beginning until the end. And Unlike American Pie 2, this story had a plot, while being just as funny and funnier, in some parts, than American Pie 2 and 40 days and 40 days. I strongly recommend you to watch this. And if you look at the total gross and it disapoints you think about it this way, its R, I'm sure many many underage teenagers sneak in to watch it. I know, because when I watched it there were people sitting on the stairs and every seat was taken! "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The whole idea for this movie might sound stupid, but it really turned out great.  It was funny--if you like projectiles.  There were serious moments that fit in well with the nudity scenes and the obscene humor.  Overall, I thought it was well worth the money to see it.  Excellent casting as well. The only thing I didn't like about this film was how predictable the ending was.  I won't tell you, but if you see this movie, you'll know exactly what I mean. "},{"Title":"This movie is definitely worth viewing","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It is likely you have read other viewers' comments on Sorority Boys, so you will already know the plot summary. I would love to tell you why I liked this movie enough to go out and buy it. They say that you don't know a person until you have walked a mile in their shoes, and this movie takes that piece of wisdom quite literally! The three guys undergo some slow and subtle changes in their attitudes towards women after a few days masquerading as sorority girls. It is not a politically correct tale by any means, but who cares? Life is serious enough without getting bent out of shape over a movie, and anyone who takes serious offense at this one really needs to get a sense of humor. The talent is outstanding and thus one can overlook any flaws in the plot or script. The guys are hilarious, especially Michael Rosenbaum, who takes a break from playing Lex Luthor (Smallville) for a while and turns out to be an ace at physical comedy. The jokes are coarse at times, as is the language, but it is only what one would expect and the whole thing is a laugh a minute. Quite frankly, at times I laughed until I cried. I was thinking that once I had the movie and could watch it over and over, it would not be as funny, but this one just does not get old. The DVD includes a filmmaker's angle feature and a very funny behind-the-scenes featurette which shows the boy-to-girl transformation process (including leg waxing - hope the guys got paid extra for that). Sorority Boys - I loved it. Oh - and I am a female! "},{"Title":"I guess I'm just one of those uptight feminazis,","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Was anyone else bothered by the fact that a lot of the jokes in this film revolve around violence against women, and at several points, actual rape? Uh huh. That's what forcing (including drugging) someone and having sex with them is called.  Seriously, the disturbing thing about this flick is that the same old stereotypes are being paraded around all over again. Even the details were so '80s I mean, the old boys network offering a cruisy We start at 10am job to a undergrad - huh?  Shame that such a talented cast got caught up in this garbage.  "},{"Title":"Crass, stupid, raunchy, and likeable","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorority Boys is about three frat guys who go drag and pledge a sorority for reasons which, like most of the plot, are unimportant. The flick, which milks the inane premise for all it's worth, is raunchy, crass, vulgar, generally uninspired, and what time it doesn't spend with its head between its legs it spend with its head up its a**. Not worthy of a recommendation for anyone except people like me who watch crap like this with the same kind of sick curiosity which makes motorists turn into lookie-loos when passing a traffic accident. (D+) "},{"Title":"It is bad","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  THESE ARE BOYS DRESSED UP AS GIRLS! The real girls are idiots, thinking they are girls.  They look like guys in drag. And when the girl went in the shower with the guy thinking he was a chick, and I stress again THEY LOOK LIKE GUYS! How can they be mistaken for girls, even from far away? Any movie with people in drag (with the exception of Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire) is really, really bad. Skip this movie if you want to save yourself 90 minutes.  "},{"Title":"One of the Most UNDERRATED Comedies Ever!!!","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some movies live up to their hype, some do not, & some are actually better than expected.'S.B.'s ' falls into the last category.The title alone should make it clear this is not ' Citizen Kane '.Yet it is a worthy successor to ' Animal House ', which is fitting, as the cast includes several ' A.H. ' alumni, in cameo roles.This film is well-written, directed, and acted- -And most importantly, it is really F---ing Funny!!!(There are some great lines, such as,  ...My Name is Roberta, & I'm Addicted to Porn, and I Masturbate Constantly! )I honestly cannot understand why other inferior raunchy comedies (' Bridesmaids ', Etc.), are actually rated higher.That's a mystery, and also an injustice. This movie is far more worth your time! -)M "},{"Title":"Gets better as it goes along","Date":"23 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sorority Boys truly does get better as it goes along. At the beginning, it drags a little, but it gets better. The acting is actually better than I expected it to be. Barry Watson shows his acting chops here, both comedic and dramatic. Heather Matarazzo does well also, she was the funniest part in my opinion. This movie does teach a pretty good message underneath all the comedic material. The guys at first act like complete pigs, this movie eventually shows that women are not things you can just use, men aren't either for that movie. The men and women eventually show respect for one another, and it's an uplifting thing to watch happen. The comedy is not always great, sometimes it doesn't end up working. 7/10 for sorority boys. "},{"Title":"Fun and Brilant","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Three words to describe it Brilliant, funny, new. you do not realize that time is passing. The film explains what has 4 men macho test into the shoes of their victims. I laughed a lot, the time has passed without me noticing at all. Not a film that you can tell, should be seen. The talented cast and the three protagonists are stunning in their interpretations never exaggerate. The location of the collage and the brotherhoods is a clear reference to a classic is always beautiful Animal House party, women alcohol and sex. I also loved the romantic side of the film, giving a chance to those in the wrong, if it is proved repentant; because love conquers all. The character that I preferred the most and the character played by Michael Rosenbaum. The young actor (the young age of the film) proves very fickle entering perfectly the role of a woman. My rating 8 "}{"Title":"Dress in Drag and Walk Out of This Film in Shame.","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sorority Boys (2002) Dir Wallace Wolodarsky / Cast Barry Watson, Harland Williams, Michael Rosenbaum, Melissa Sagemiller, Tony Denman Stupid comedy about one gender poising as another as three college boys are accused of stealing fraternity money and driven off campus. They must gain possession of a video tape in order to gain access to whom the thief really is. To this they dress in drag and are accepted into a fraternity for ugly girls. One of the girls is too dumb to realize that the woman she is showering with is actually a guy. One of the boys makes a fatal trip to the male frat house and is nearly molested by a guy. There is even a fight sequence involving rubber penises. Shameless and predictable humiliation with Barry Watson, Harland Williams and Michael Rosenbaum hardly resembling women and viewers are asked to react as stupid as the characters they encounter. Melissa Sagemiller is even worse playing an airhead who cannot tell an impostor when the audience isn't buying it. Director Wallace Wolodarsky makes good use of slow motion but for superior males in drag movies I recommend Some Like It Hot and Tootsie, which were funny and a little more convincing in their attempt to convey a male as a female. Sorority Boys is an embarrassing charade done countless times where perhaps the reel should be used as a bra stuffer. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"It sure is a drag","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When three guys are thrown out of their dorm, they have to prove they were framed for stealing money by the president of the chapter, by getting back a VHS tape(...it was the early 2000's, not everybody had a DVD player yet) that filmed the crime. So they make the logical choice of putting on dresses(and boy, does this hope you find that concept hi-larious... whole montages and scenes are devoted to that; curiously, the idea of them getting caught barely seems to have crossed the mind of anyone making this...), moving into a sorority for the uglies, and, well, we have... a hint of a narrative, anyway. That story does seem like it should be sufficiently simplistic that the audience can keep track of it without risking diverting blood from other parts of their body, and yet, this forgets about it not only immediately, but repeatedly. I'd call it a plot hole... however, really, there's so little going on to begin with, this is more like the inverted version of that. Even at the start, in one of the few attempts to solve the main conflict, they're going about it rather aimlessly, and it's unclear if that is supposed to be amusing or they didn't realize how lazy and obvious they were being.I should define our leads, even if the flick won't bother to. There's Doofer(Williams, awkward as ever), the stupid one. Dave(Watson, bland), the one who wants a girl he can have a conversation with - because at least one male in this has to be appealing. Has he found her in the smart and political Leah(Sagemiller, who is absolutely beautiful and charming, one of the few high points). And Adam(Rosenbaum, who's wasted in this; he does bring his usual intensity to the role)... he... well, at first it seems like he might be starting to appreciate unattractive women's plight...? No, apparently he's worried he won't be into chicks from now on. Mm. Compelling. Say what you will about American Pie and Road Trip, they had stuff happen, there were actual characters, and, well, they had plenty of laughs, which this is sparse on.This is really directed by someone who worked on The Simpsons? He evidently has no idea how to stage these situations, and the editing is dreadful - you can always tell you're looking at a series of separately recorded bits, they don't go together(a lot of the time, they forget to cut to reaction shots). The 86 minutes sans credits(90 with) pass too slowly, with too little built up and nearly no pay-off. There is one or two creative bits, and some random jokes that work. The lowest common denominator humor is more shocking than inspired(often, there are too many elements that are silly, and it's not certain what is even supposed to be the punchline - if anything), and of course fails to be credible in the least(no one is that unpleasantly honest about bodily functions).Ah, what of the message? It's ham-fisted and crammed down our throats in a manner ill befitting the crude teen romp, of course, still, it can get that right, yes? Nope. Like Shallow Hal and 50 First Dates, it plays to the prejudices that it's supposedly trying to conquer and the undesirables tend to actually be cute with merely one aspect off(remember, viewing public if your partner isn't perfect, that's plenty reason to dump them!). I won't even mention the solution, and not only because this is a spoiler-free review... this thing is so confused. There is a lot of sexuality(mild visuals, strong language concerning it) and a little nudity of both genders(breasts and butts) in this. I recommend this solely to those who can't pass up any entry in the subgenre. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Just Give It A Try...You Won't Be Disappointed!","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have to admit; when I first saw the trailer for this movie back when it first came out I didn't think it would be good at all. Well, I saw it online today and thought it was HILARIOUS! All the actors did so well with their roles (I especially like Michael Rosenbaum; he's also my favorite in Smallville) and I loved the fact they had actors from Animal House in it! I recommend this movie just for a good laugh alone! The soundtrack is great, too!This movie reminds me of a cross between Bosom Buddies and Some Like It Hot. I also think the guys pull off their drag costumes pretty well and are able to be in touch with their feminine side. They also seem really hurt when they're not appreciated as women, making it all the more hilarious! "},{"Title":"Really funny!","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen this movie 3 times and it never gets old.I always catch this movie on the TV and I laugh and laugh at all the jokes.It is a really good gross out comedy (one of the best gross out college comedies actually) and this movie is worth renting out if you haven't seen already.I don't think I have seen any of the actors in any other movies before seeing Sorority Boys.I thought the ending was really weird.Don't believe the negative reviews until you have seen this movie then you will have a different opinion.It had a good plot also and I really liked the soundtrack for this movie.10/10 is my rating. "},{"Title":"see it if you're feelin' silly","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie when i saw it was a scream. the idea was pretty original but some bits were very predictable. Some bits were kinda gross too! still, see it if you're in for a laugh and if you want to see how men get in touch with their feminine sides! "},{"Title":"I Don't Usually Watch This Kind Of Material","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Michael Rosenbaum is the reason I became interested in this movie.  I watch Smallville whenever possible; he makes a 'super' Lex Luthor.I don't watch this kind of material often, but I was in the mood to do something outrageous (at least something outrageous for me!).  I was tired of all of the hassles and seriousness of my life and wanted to go have some fun.It was as I expected; female frontal nudity, dildo's, sexual inuendo, raunchy language.  If this is what you're looking for, it's definitely worth your time.  The storyline stays strong throughout and was good.  I wasn't disappointed in the movie at all.Don't take anyone who's not used to this sort of material.  It's rated R for a very good reason. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one movie you don't want to miss! It will have you rolling in the isles with laughter!This is a story about 3 collage boys who get kicked out of their frat the KOK for stealing money. To survive and prove that they are innocent they joined a girls sorority called DOG which is a place for the not so popular girls. This is were all the fun begins.Barry Watson and Michael Rosenbaum were my favourites. They make you laugh from the get go and believe it or not they looked good in drag lol. I like how they learned that even the not so pretty girls have feelings too and how it's not easy being a girl. From make-up to dresses and boys these 3 guys learn that being a woman is not all that it's cracked up to be.Barry's character David is just looking to find the right woman, someone he can talk to about anything and just enjoy being with her, but the only problem is when he does find her she thinks that he is Daisy.This movie is worth paying the $8 to see. It's fun for teens and adults but be aware that if you are not to fussy on movies that contain a lot of sex, or sexual content then this is not for you. But hey we all need a good laugh once in awhile and this is the first movie that I have seen in a long time that had me laughing so hard that my sides hurt. If you only see one comedy this year this is the one!  "},{"Title":"Frat Boys MUST See This!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So going into the movie, I expected a hilarious, if predictable comedy.  I was not disappointed.  Matter of fact, I even got more than I expected from this movie.  While never seeming serious, the movie managed to convey a satirical message about how SOME fraternity and sorority members view non-Greeks (known to some as GDIs, for gosh-darn independents).  Overall, I'd rate this movie a 9 out of 10.  I can't wait for it to be available for downloading! "},{"Title":"Boys better than expected","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went into this film expecting the worst. I was intending to catch up on my Academy misses but alas was too late for the remaining shows. Needless to say I have not laughed my ass off to this extent since Scary Movie. Being an ex-fraternity boy added to the enjoyment but is not absolutely necessary. Have fun with it. "},{"Title":"Just mindless sex???","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  > Funny (low brow) movie....cheap sex jokes, but a film with no morals that > gains morals at the end....kind of... >  > this is one of those films that you say I can't believe I'm laughing at > this... > but there are many points to this film that make it funny, (the nasty > stuff aside) > bunch of guys dressing as girls to get back into the frat house... > and from the  male standpoint of , I can have sex with as many girls in > college as I want, its fun, the chicks are hot,and plentiful....and the > guys can belittle the girls..and mark them as notches on their belts..to > look good to the other guys, but after posing as girls, they get a taste > of how guys treat girls...THATS the part of the film that makes this film > a MUST SEE!!! the film has vulgarity by the buttload!!!, a few scenes of > nudity....and just silly sex jokes... >  > i do feel they could have  lost the nudity,and the vulgarity and gotten an > PG-13 ..the film has a good message ....at points...once you wade thru the > vulgar jokes of immaturity!... >  > final rating - 9 out of 10...(woulda gotten a 10, but the language and > nudity barrier ruin the 10 rating for me) "}{"Title":"Number 1 criteria It just made me laugh","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You don't have to be an academy award winner to entertain.  This movie made me laugh out loud.  It's sophmoric humor rivalled Road Trip.  The sight gags were hysterical.  Harland Williams as Doofer/Roberta was outrageous.  So called mindless humor doesn't have to be mindless if it's intelligent mindless humor. If you're a fan of this genre, this is a must see.  Animal house's next generation but not quite the classic. "},{"Title":"funny as hell","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a 17 year old high school senior, and I don't laugh easily. I have never laughed so hard. This movie is packed with humor from beginning to end. Even those who are not familiar with typical high school- college humor will like this one. Highly recommended. 17+ "},{"Title":"Just admit you had a great laugh!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you guys want some intelligent movie with a complicated story and a a valuable moral, I'm sure there's still a Roman Polanski movie available at the videostore. Sorority Boys was never about that.That being said, if you have enough humility, you'll admit that this movie is pretty darn funny! Sure, the emphasis on sex might seem unnecessary sometimes, but that's very little compared to all the other scenes that make us cry from laughing!Harland Williams is hilarious in the role of Doofer/Roberta (who strangely resembles the Sorority founder!), who becomes the best friend of all the D.O.G. sisters. With that Kathy Griffin wig and his facial expressions, every look, every move is funny (just remember his/her trying on different shades of lipstick in the lady's store)! You can never know if it really was in the original script or if he made everything up, but it sure is working and the timing is perfect (and how about the way he takes care of the blaring alarm clock in the morning!)!Michael Rosenbaum (Adam/Adina) as the macho-but-willing-to-do-anything-to-get-him-back-in-the-K.O.K.-house guy also gives a great performance, trying to walk on high heels, looking as sexy has he can be under those circumstances (ie  not very gracious!). As for Barry Watson, it's hard to believe his character has so much respect for women since he's from the K.O.K. house and is Adam and Doofer's buddy. But good acting after all.Now, go see the movie, alone if you have to. Forget about the fact that a grown-up shouldn't enjoy a stupid teen movie, and let yourself enjoy it! Just don't try to see some hidden meaning to it  there isn't! I would give it a good rating for the entertainment, the lack of dull moments and for Harland's facial expressions! "},{"Title":"A Must-See For Any College Guy","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was totally pleased with this movie. I expected it to be a funny movie, but not as funny as it ended up being. The guys were hot, the girls were awesome actresses, the storyline was good.  All in all, I'd have to say that it rocked.  The whole idea was a great idea, the three guys learned an important lesson, while being girls for a week. By the way, what the heck was up with Spencers voice? ;) GO SEE IT!! YOU WONT REGRET IT!! "},{"Title":"Typical, but still worth it.","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a juvenile, contrived, typical Hollywood,testosterone filled excuse to get some free glimpses of boob, and kick some people in the balls. I laughed my pants off.  Harland Williams is my new hero, and stole the show. It was a good vehicle for him, and I hope this leads to bigger and better projects. While the plot was pretty much formula teen movie fodder, it did have a good message behind it when the apparently misogynistic main characters get a taste of their own medicine.  And everything gets tied up with a happy bow in the end.  I have a weakness for teen movies, and Sorority Boys gave me the laugh I needed. I left the theater not missing the $11 I paid to see it. "},{"Title":"Sorority Boys, a film so unfunny, so misogynistic, so stunningly awful....","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorority Boys, a film so unfunny, so misogynistic, so stunningly awful, that it may prove to be a revolution for the direct-to-video market.In what apparently passes for high concept these days, three fraternity brothers of the Kappa Omega Kappa are accused of ripping off the fraternal members dues (kept conveniently in huge wads of cash in an upstairs safe) and are tossed out in a fit of revenge by the spurned pledgemaster (who has the hair of Buster Poindexter and the voice of Dan Aykroyd in Caddyshack II.)Like wolves in women's clothing, the guys unsuccessfully try to break back in to retrieve a potentially incriminating videotape and are thrown out on their wigs and high heels to the doorstep of the Delta Omicron Gamma sorority where they are immediately welcomed with open arms. You would be correct in assuming that this house is filled exclusively with the less attractive girls on campus and headed by a beautiful blonde feminist who wears glasses.That's essentially it. Brain dead flesh packages revived by Pauly Shore on an ecstacy trip know exactly what's going to happen. The boys will learn valuable lessons about what its like to be a woman while at the same time teaching the `DOGs' how to stand up for themselves against the hot pink ladies from that other sorority.Truly disgusting!!!! "},{"Title":"It was hilarious","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw that it had Michael Rosenbaum in it and that was enough to make me want to see.  Then I saw the local paper didn't even give it one star then I knew I had to see it.  I am so glad I went to see it.  I was laughing practically the whole movie, laughing so hard I was crying.  I love the fact that there is actually a storyline in there with all the corky jokes. I like that fact it isn't like some other movies where the guys dress up like a girl just to see the girls naked.  They didn't really want to join the house for the girls they had to find a place to hideout and find the truth.  I am not sure what else to say without giving away parts of the movie.  I just say I thought it was a great movie and I recommend everyone seeing it at least once.  I will probably see it more than that though. "},{"Title":"A riot.","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As with many movies, misrepresented by the trailer. Hilarious from start to finish (to the very end). Rude and crude, but hey, some of us find that funny. Really raunchy comedy and not for everyone but definitely put me in a better mood. "},{"Title":"These boys take sleaze to a new low!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dave (BARRY WATSON), Adam (MICHAEL ROSENBAUM) and Doofer (HARLAND WILLIAMS) are three guys who enjoy living in the Kappa Omicron Kappa house and throwing wild and sexist parties that irritate Leah (MELISSA SAGEMILLER), an outspoken feminist and head of the local chapter of Delta Omicron Gamma.Yet, when Spence (BRAD BEYER), the KOK president, announces that the money the fraternity has been collecting for an important alumni cruise has been stolen by the three, they're immediately chased from the premises. When they realize that Spence was the only other person with the combination to the safe in their room and that he must have been caught on their hidden, motion-activated video camera, Dave, Adam and Doofer decide they must retrieve the tape to prove their innocence.The only problem is that no one, including Adam's little fraternity brother, Jimmy (TONY DENMAN), will let them in. Accordingly, they show up at the next party dressed in drag and going by the names of Daisy, Adina and Roberta. Not surprisingly, their less than attractive looks immediately get them thrown from the house and to Leah's feet who's outside protesting.Drawn in by her offer of free food as well as room and board if they pledge DOG, the three decide they can live there as women while they plot how to get their hands on that videotape. While there, they meet other sorority sisters including Patty (KATHRYN STOCKWOOD), who thinks she's a freak because of her height, Katie (HEATHER MATARAZZO) who has a rather loud speaking voice, and Frederique (YVONNE SCIO), a rather hairy French student.As the men try to keep up their ruse, they soon learn the trials and tribulation of being a less than attractive woman at the college, all while Dave begins to fall for Leah who sees him as a compassionate female friend and possible lover. With the date of the important alumni cruise nearing, the three men in drag try to deal with their femininity while also attempting to clear their names of theft. "},{"Title":"Funniest teen comedy of 2002","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Rosenbaum and Williams are hilarious and are clearly on their way to long careers as comic stars.  Creative and apropos cameos and an excellent supporting cast including Melissa Sagemiller and Tony Denman make it a likely hit with teens and others. "}{"Title":"Really Funny Film","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I got to see a preview on Monday, thanks to me friendly neighborhood radio station, and I was totally surprised! The movie was completly hilarious, a lot of humor a la Porky's/American Pie/Animal House. The guys didn't really make convincing women with the exception of Michael Rosenbaum, the guy from Smallville, who just looked AMAZING. The plot is pretty amusing, but its the gags (both lines and visual) that really carry the film. Some toliet humor, so you may not want to bring the younger kids. All in all, a really FUNNY look at how guys see women.  "},{"Title":"A Gross-Out comedy","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I caught a sneak preview of this movie a month before its release date. I laughed a lot, but its sicker than American pie. I stopped short of giving this movie a 9 or 10 because of this. Too much nudity and certain gross comments for a teen movie. American Pie movies are way better. But this movie did give me a laugh, so i gave it an 8.   "},{"Title":"Defintiely worth pledging 8 bucks!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film at a free screening a few nights ago.  I couldn't stop laughing!! Its filled to the brim with Frat Boy/toilet humor.  But if you're not in the greek system don't worry. There are enough laughs to sustain this film otherwise.  And bring a girl who is openminded becuase there are tons of funny situations but they all revolve around sex.  A lot of the humor is typical of cross-dressing dressing comedies.  However there is also a deep if not predictable story about stereotypes and gender issues to back up this comedy.  I recommend this for anyone who likes gross out comedies! "},{"Title":"Oh my god.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Oh my good god. This movie was funny, it wasn't fantastic, but I thought it was good, so everyone moaning about how it's offensive needs to shut it. I'm a girl and I'm not exactly outgoing and my self esteem isn't that high, but I though it was a good movie, and yes, I do indeed have respect for myself. It's not real, it's fiction, get over it, and find your humor.Back to the movie. Although it's insulting to a lot of people, it's hilarious and I practically busted a gut watching it. It's not a movie that deserves a Grammy, but it's defiantly good and something I would watch more than once. And the fact my favorite actor, Michael Rosenbaum, was in it made it all the more better and watchable.Bottom line. It's a good movie. That's it. "},{"Title":"greatest  movie ever","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought this was the funniest, and most original comedies, I have ever seen. I can only imagine what was going on in the minds of the writers. Can't wait to see more from these guys. If you are one of the unfortunate people to not have seen the movie by now, GO GET IT!!!! Just buy it don't rent it, you'll love it, and probably watch it a thousand times just like me. If you have seen it and didn't like it for some weird reason. WHY?? Sure it is rank and filthy, but that's what is so cool about it. Nobody does movies like this. Not even the National Lampoon's movies have been as risqu as this. It was perfect in every way. To the writers Please put out more movies like this one and don't hold back, really lay it on thick!!!PIECE!! I'm out "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is hilarious. Certainly the concept is nothing new but the story and performance are pretty solid but it's the humor that shines.*** SPOILERS WARNING *** Many people enjoyed the dildo fighting sequence which is funny and there are other funny moments people seem all too willing to overlook.The look on the KOK guys face when the three man girls rock up to the KOK frat party to try and get their video evidence. You have to see this look.After trying to get their video evidence the boys dressed as girls get thrown out of their frat party and they end up on the DOG (Delta Omicron Gamma) house. They spend a few minutes refusing admission to the house working an alternate plan, they turn their backs when the DOG house mentions food. Cut to a scene with three girls tucking into a hearty meal in a way that only males do. ROFL priceless.Then the boys are discussing what their next move should be and anguish over joining their arch nemesis DOG when Doofer/Roberta casually mentions she pledged twenty minutes ago.Robertas card when they are introducing each other. Then there is Robertas introduction itself the other girls give a nice little normal intro and Roberta just BLURTS I'm addicted to porn and masturbate constantly Doofers description of how he found the video in a chest. In the narrative he finds the chest open but the film footage shows him using a crowbar before removing the lock by firing a revolver.Then there is whats this on your dress man?, it must be gum or something, what is it juicy cock flavor? The sight gag with Roberta consoling one of her frat girl buddies, gently patting her face and head while still wearing rubber gloves from cleaning duty and a four foot strand of twisted hair pulled from the sink, works some magic too ) The gravity bong.One of the man girls fathers falling for one of the man girls.The scene where the wig comes off and oh my god you're a man reminds me of the whole Clark Kent / superman thing glasses on / off kind of thing.This is a sample there is a ton of good humor in this movie. If you like comedy it's worth adding to your DVD collection and it has replay value. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Most notable for Melissa Sagemiller","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorority Boys is not a bad film.  Even though it is a light, comedic affair with a plot certainly far from original, I found it to be well worth my time.  What better way for chauvanistic frat guys (am I being redundant?) to learn respect for women than to walk a few miles in their (often high-heeled) shoes? Most worthy of praise is the job done with casting.  Even some of the lesser characters fill their roles to perfection.  I was also very surprised at the performance of Melissa Sagemiller who played Leah of the DOG sorority.  She certainly is a natural in front of the camera.  Keep your eyes out for her future efforts as I predict she will soon be a household name.   "},{"Title":"A Favorite Secret Indulgence","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, I just got through watching Sorority Boys again, for the 6th time. Every time it comes on TV I end up watching it. I have never seen these actors in anything else, so I didn't have any preconceived notions. What I got was great acting from (most) everyone AND even greater ensemble acting. Every little nuance, to me, was about perfect - each look, each gesture, set dressing and even the choice of dress for the girls.What a hoot!! Each time I watch it, I find myself laughing out loud (which is VERY rare for me) even though some of the humor is sophomoric. I do understand that some of the bits were farcical, and it is because of my understanding of those parts that I was able to maintain my suspended disbelief. It seems I catch something new every time I watch it, too. This time it was Doofer's BVD's with the yellow stain on them, which speaks volumes about his character.This movie is a favorite secret indulgence of mine. I am considered an intellectual in my circle and with my peers. I have a couple of degrees and am right wing politically. The few people who know that I like this movie are either surprised or aghast upon discovery. My suggestion is to roll with it and just enjoy yourself. Don't take it too seriously, even though there are serious undertones which gives each sex a peek into the other sex's world.Some of my favorite portrayals are of Adam/Adena, Doofer/Roberta and Spence. Favorite bits are Adena looking for a size 8, Roberta cleaning the hair clog out of the sink, and Spence using the paper plate mask for high council. One of my favorite lines is, There's mutiny afoot! spoken by Spence in that Bill Clinton voice of his. Thanks to the cast and crew for a fun romp! I gave it a 9 out of 10 for the great acting of many and for the funny bits in the script making me laugh out loud.*****spoiler*****At the very, very end of the movie when the Tri-Pi's are adrift at sea, one Tri - Pi asks another , Are you through with (name)'s leg? making one think that they were grooming each other. Sure, she says and hands a disembodied leg to her and she takes a bite. Now, that was sick humor, but at least a mannequin-looking leg was used which did give it humor. If it had been a real-looking leg, it would have been repulsive rather than funny. I think it smart of the director for realizing that. "},{"Title":"Listen to your brain cells fizzle after this stupid comedy","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorority Boys (2002) Barry Watson, Michael Rosenbaum, Harland Williams, Melissa Sagemiller, Tony Denman, Brad Beyer, Kathryn Stockwood, Heather Matarazzo, D Wallace Wolodarsky. Three chauvinistic frat brothers dress as ugly women to scheme their way into a sorority to prove they're innocence for not stealing their pledge's money and to find the culprits. Routine rehash of PORKY'S and `men in drag' comedies claims a lame running joke with the same old stuff  boob adjusting and tripping in high-heels, but also just like today's norm. Listen to your brain cells fizzle after watching this merely predictable, uncouth, and pitifully stupid `comedy'.Running Time 94 minutes and rated R for crude sexual content, nudity, strong language and some drug use. RATING * (out of ****) "},{"Title":"Good time waster","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorority Boys is nothing more than a good time waster.The film does have some funny moments and the three male leads all have good chemistry together. While I think the film could have used more nudity it's still a good film with some pretty sexy women in it.If you wanna waste some time then check this one out "}{"Title":"Riiiiight . . .","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Every person has a subject where they struggle to suspend their disbelief. Films on that subject have a lot of work to do even if they're trying to be satirical.  I could not buy into this film's premise . ..Granted these three characters are retards, I mean, they do belong to a frat.  What's worse?  The 'leader' of the frat is an annoying twerp who never would have made it into a frat to begin with, never would have made it out of middle school alive.  No they are not going to be intelligent enough to know the opposite sex's behavior, mindset, clothing trends, shopping trends, hell the curves of the female body to effectively pull off a drag routine for days.  Maybe if they just walked down the street once, but constant interaction?What bothers me is that not one person on the entire campus seems to know either.  Not even the female characters when physical contact is involved like simple embraces, etc.  Everyone I know is aware of the difference and properties of a stuffed bra versus the real thing.  The football scene? Shower scene?  Bed scenes?!  These people don't seem to know the difference between male and female anatomy--it's like the only reason they go after the opposite sex is because that's what they're supposed to do.  Does this frat and sorority even know what sex is?!  After watching this film, it wouldn't surprise me if they were oblvious to even that and just winged it.Lighten up--it's a comedy!  You say.  Not one character in the entire film can hold a remotely intelligent conversation with Forrest freakin' Gump.  I would answer.  And that, honestly, isn't so bad.  It's the fact that not one person on the damn project has anything intelligent to say. It's stupidity for the sake of stupidity, trying to pass off as a cheap laugh but failing at that.  There's no edged commentary that gives, say, Kevin Smith films their watchability.  We have bad cliches done much better in the past regurgitated on the screen with nothing that makes it special, funny, or worth watching.At least Kevin Smith uses Jay and Silent Bob as a means to make wisecracks at whatever film they happen to be making, and his commentaries are so far buried and self aware no one viewer is ever going to figure it all out. Back to Sorority Boys, there's nothing to figure out.  There's nothing there.  Roger Ebert is right in his review when he says the poster is funnier than the film--it says all that needs to be said.  And the poster doesn't waste 90 minutes or so of our lives with something it's desperately trying to pass as a joke.              "},{"Title":"A brilliant study of gender roles","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Where else will you find a main stream movie that explores gender roles? a movie where men are forced to act and behave like women? where they worry about their figure, their clothes, and their daily hassles?The plot is not about men dressing in drag so they see women naked. Oh, no.  The plot is to see how men (the Sensitive Guy, the Sex God Jerk, and the Clueless Neanderthal) would behave if they were thrown into the same situations on a college campus. All women's issues are addressed -- from bathroom usage to date rape. The date rape in Sorority Boys, a comedy, has ignited a few angry reactions, barking that rape is not a laughing matter.  Neither is nuclear war but no one seems to mind the jokes in Dr. Strangelove.  The rape victim himself is the Sex God Jerk who ends up being humiliated the same way as he humiliated his sexual conquest.  He deals with the same emotional trauma as a real rape victim (even denial). The Sensitive Guy thinks dressing in drag will give him leverage over a Feminist he adores.  Oddly enough, the Feminist rejects him as a male but loves him as the female.  She thinks she has found her true love unaware of the Sensitive Guy's false front.  How is that for absurdity at its greatest? The Clueless Neanderthal is a curious one.  He seems to have no purpose in the movie but he is important in advancing the plot.  He is the man everyone wishes would go away but yet there he is.  The Clueless Neanderthal remains and, in his crude way, becomes closer to females. The overall public reaction to Sorority Boys has been mild.  Viewers want to see T & A, not to have sexual stereotypes dispelled. They want mindless comedy, not a surreal dialogue about gender roles.  We want to see our women as sexual objects which is why we can only see Sorority Boys as a crude sex comedy.  The director used to work for The Simpsons so there is a lot of humor that isn't caught on a first viewing.  Sorority Boys lacks the cutting humor of The Simpsons but this movie does possess a deep motive than just exploiting bathroom humor.  Granted their are a lot of lousy movies with good message (e.g. The New Guy and Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo) but Sorority Boys has a strong story that wasn't haphazardly constructed. Besides where else are you going to see a mock Star Wars light saber duel done with dildos? "},{"Title":"Loads of fun","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One hilarious movie which will make everyone laugh. This movie has a lot of talented actors. The movie is hilarious. I can't wait to buy it on DVD. This movie is a minute laugh comedy and guess what critics hated it. This movie is pure fun. Critics are dumb not to laugh in amovie like this. "},{"Title":"truly offensive","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film has the most offensive RAPE scene in any movie I have ever watched.  One of the fraternity boys rapes his brother and it is treated with a light hearted note.  It is shown as the brother being in the wrong place at the wrong time and with a don't ask don't tell policy.  It is awful that this film is marketed towards teenage girls who already have a low self-esteem and are now taught that if you are passed out, it is not rape.  NOT FUNNY B "},{"Title":"AWSOME MOVIE!!!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie kicks maximum ass! harland williams best yet! The cast is hip, wild, funny & fresh...way better thenVAN WILDER. Another cool thing about this movie is there are 3 actors from ANIMAL HOUSEin it. (James daughton,Mark metcalf,Stephen furst)I recomened you see this movie...if you haven't already.P.S. I bought this movie on DVD it dosen't have alot of features but for what it's got it's not bad.features include Boys will be girls behind-the-scenes featurette All the angles multi-filmmaker points of view Dolby digital 5.1 surround sound Widescreen (1.851)- enhanced for 16x9 televisions Spanish subtitles / ccFeatureApprox.94 minutes / color / rated R  "},{"Title":"A ghastly embarrassment","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The makers of this drivel owe me $8.75.  That's the money (and two hours) I wasted on Sorority Boys after reading a positive review of the movie.  No, I wasn't expecting The Age of Innocence from this film, but there have been some guys in drag classics over the years and I thought maybe this might be fun.  This movie is sooo bad, I don't know where to begin.  It's embarrassingly bad. Frankly, it's downright STUPID. This is a Hollywood movie, so it must have had a decent budget. But being creative with money was obviously beyond the director and producers' grasp. The three actors in drag are so badly made up with cheap wigs and unbelievable costumes that you'd have to be a complete imbecile to think that they were actually women!!!  I've seen community theaters do a better job than this. And all the characters in this movie believe that they are women; are they blind! Is it a star trek time flux!  After all, the movie does take place at a college as opposed to an insane assylum.  OK, so realism isn't one of this movie's fortes! I'm still flabbergasted that ladies who have commented on this movie didn't find the cheap comic exploitation of women (wet tee shirts, ugly girls referred to as dogs, girls with facial hair etc. etc.) in the film appalling! It's equally distressing to have to sit through the film's sleazy working of an audience's assumed homophobia. I wonder how many viewers stayed to the end of the credits for the big surprise cannibalism scene!!!!. Funny!  No.  Stupid! Yes!   This movie might have made a pleasant diversion with a better script and a better director. There's nothing wrong with the premise. The talented actors who play the lead roles must have had some inkling of how degrading the entire movie really is. What's really depressing, is that many of our teenagers in the USA actually find this movie a worthwhile entertainment.   Anyone with a brain, avoid this at all costs! "},{"Title":"crude, without value, yet strangely amusing","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Overall, Sorority Boys is a shallow movie - cheap humor, sight gags, and hammy acting reign supreme here. Nevertheless, I will admit that I still spent a good portion of the movie laughing out loud. Sure, it's stupid, but then again it's not exactly selling itself as high class humor. I recommend it for anyone looking to blow 5 bucks on a mindless matinee flick.However, I feel the need to point out that there are several really problematic things in this movie. Let's face it folks, date rape just ISN'T FUNNY. And yet the filmmakers seem to think it's hilarious that not only do the stupid frat boys using roofies, but so do our heroes - although the trio use the drugs to sedate an amorous housebrother, the mere fact that they so gallantly run around with roofies is kind of disturbing. And I'm not sure what to make of the fact that in the end the main character thinks it's a good idea to set up the would-be date rapist with one of his new female friends. Just because the movie never hides its misogynistic side, doesn't excuse this sort of socially abhorrent message. So, keep it mind. "},{"Title":"Entertaining but silly comedy","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A silly college sex farse with a trio of frat boys having to pretend to be sorority girls in order to clear their names. The logic in the story is fairly skimpy and some of the gags are a bit too obvious (the frat is K.O.K and the sorority is D.O.G.) but it actualy is somewhat entertaining anyways. Melissa Sagemiller (who was memorable in Get Over It and Soul Survivors) here plays the head of the DOG house, though she is probably too much of a babe to really be in the same house as the weirdos who populate DOG, and of course one of our intredpid guys pretending to be girls falls for her.. causing some amusing moments that highlight the film. Again, silly and very predictible stuff but good for a few laughs and mindless fun. GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Not funny","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was hoping to catch the funny side of Matt on Seventh Heaven and Lex Luther on Smallville when I rented this movie.  Unfortunately, that side seemingly doesn't exist.  If you're looking for something along the lines of American Pie, you won't find it here. American Pie's Stifler, Jim Levinstein, Paul Finch, etc. are all funny.  I have to be honest here. The WB has yet to present me with any actor worth more than a few generous chuckles (excluding their current Friday night lineup). Plus, these three guys didn't intend on doing another Some Like It Hot and it shows.  And you can't blame their youth. Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis weren't that much older than these three guys back in 1959. We just have to face it, though - Lemmon and Curtis looked like they spent weeks working on their female personas and these guys looked like they spent a couple hours trying out a few ideas in an uninspiring Adult Ed acting class.  The voices, the body movements, etc. are so lame to the point of obnoxious.So, if Lex Luther in drag doesn't completely weird you out, you might like this.  All I can say is that the WB seems to be going against the trend.  At one time, TV actors and movie actors were like East and West - the two never met (Except in made-for-TV movies).  Today, that overlap is quite common, e.g., George Clooney moving from ER to the big screen. But, when the most promising movie performer the WB can come out with is Joey from Dawson's Creek, something's not right.  And in this movie's case, nothing is funny..... "},{"Title":"I found it amusing","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this in the theatre with my dad a year ago, and it felt uncomfortable. But I bought the movie a couple of months ago. And I just can't stop laughing when I see guys try to act like girls. The plot is dumb, but it can be fun to watch. The only thing that was a tad bit scary was the lesbo parts. But Adeena and Roberta were more amusing then Daisy. So, they make up for it. Just watch it. And judge for yourself. Have fun!8/10 "}{"Title":"Very Funny!!!","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought this was a very funny movie! Barry Watson, Harland Williams and Michael Rosenbaum all did an awesome job pretending to be women. After being framed for stealing money from their sorority, Dave, Adam, and Doofer get booted from the K.O.K. house. Doofer knows that there is proof in their room that can show that they're innocent. They disguise as women and go to the all-girl party, but they are kicked out because all the guys think they're ugly. They are helped by the girls at the D.O.G. house, who are considered nerds. Throughout the time dressing as girls, Dave, Adam, and Doofer are treated badly by the chauvinistic guys at K.O.K. and soon realize that they used to to that to women, and should have never treated them badly. Dave falls in love with Leah, the sexy leader of the D.O.G. house. Leah is sick of being treated like crap. Dave, Adam, and Doofer soon learn the error of their ways and try to find the proof. If you love college comedies, you'll love SORORITY BOYS!!! "},{"Title":"Hot chicks vs Ugly chicks","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" College guys acting as chauvinist pigs? Check. College guys framed by a jealous frat and got kicked out of the house? Check. 3 Popular college frat guys dressing as ugly girls to get into a sorority house? Check. A college guy falls for 1 of the supposedly ugly sorority girl? Check. College guys end up in respectful relationship with the ugly girls? CheckIf you want to see a comedy with the most effective use of lines, go see Sorority boys. If you want to see the hottest, most believable cross dresser, forget Pricilla queen of desert or Tootsie, you have to see this movie for Adina character. If you don't think she's cute, then send me your movie ticket for refund (well, OK, i'm only joking). I guarantee you will laugh all the way watching the 88 minutes movie. It's suitable for any gender, boys, gay or straight, girls, gay or straight, but definitely not for 15 years below (sorry kids, gotta wait for another few years). I won't go over the plot, as I practically sum it on the above check list. Overall, I bow to the the writers, directors and to the talented Mr Michael Rosenbaum (Adam/Adina). Personally, without him, the movie plainly suck. "},{"Title":"In my Top 5 for Best Comedy EVER!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is absolutely great! First I'd like to say I am a woman, and by 10 out of ten, I mean comedy wise, this IS NO sentimental, Oscar winning film. If you liked white chicks, you'll love this! It starts out by three guys getting kicked out of their dorm, KOK. So they try and get back some kind of tape that will prove their innocence. How do they get in? They dress up as chicks. (I thought it was weird that they referred to the one dude as the fat chick. He was hot even as a woman, Doofer should have been the fat guy.) Then they go in on all ladies night. Of course their kicked out because, they actually look mannish, of course. Then they go to a sorority called DOG, and are invited in. The whole movie snowballs from there. Dave (one of the drags) gets hooked up with a lesbian, who thinks he is a lesbian, very funny. When they finally kissed I cracked up! Doofer helps a girl with shaving, and then the fat dude is trying to get a tape, by hooking up with his own bother (Who ends up boofooing him in the ends). It is so funny. The end, with all the girls on a raft, is hilarious.I am serious, and hardly ever laugh out loud. When I saw this movie I nearly cried. I bought it soon after ward, and if I ever watch TV and it's on you can guess what I'm watching. (+ If you don't have a sense of humor, but are a semi- perve, this might be the show for you) How ever feminists, no, don't watch this movie! This truly is one of the best comedies EVER!!! "},{"Title":"Not the best movie, but decent","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Barry Watson, Michael Rosenbaum, Harland WilliamsI liked the set-up of the movie, Three disorderly college guys are banished from there frat house for theft, (Which they didn't do, of course). And so they stay at a locol Sorority house, The DOG house, which is full of 'ugly' girls. (Which some of them are actually quite beautiful) but for the purpose of the movie, have to wear glasses or go a few days without brushing there hair.. in order to prove that beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Anyway, they dress up as girls, not only do they have the five o'clock shadow, they have an adam's apple. When I watched this movie, my 4 year niece came in and said 'They're boys' but still, no-one is any wiser. Although Daisy(Watson) was passable and made a decent looking female if you ask me, Adina(Rosenbaum) was on the borderline. Roberta(Williams) could in no way have seriously passed off as a girl. Despite that, She was probably the funniest up front person in the whole movie. The things she said were much funnier than the 'falling over in high heel shoes' tricks. Some of the 'real' DOG's had there funny moments. Like the giant and the girl with the high-pitched voice. But in all the movie was full of cheap gags and bamboozled mombo jombo. And the over-used Shallow frat boy turns into a decent caring guy, it gets boring. Nothing in the movie is to be taken seriously, Watson falls down a flight of stairs without a scratch on him/her. And when the DOG's are playing football against the Trypi's, (which does get alittle nasty). They come out of it with nothing but dirty clothes. But it's an enjoyable college caper, with some serious sub-text, which is laughed off by the shady characters. "},{"Title":"One Funny Movie!","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie would have been another boring, typical American comedy, consisting of corny laughs at everyday things that aren't funny, but I was wrong!This comedy sees three fraternity boys kicked out of their house (K.O.K) for stealing. Some guy, who sounds like Bill Clinton, of course framed them. They know that there is videotape that proves their innocence and set out to get the tape. They here of another house (D.O.G) are looking for members and join. The only thing is, they have to be girls!In drags, the boys learn all kinds of girl stuff that boys shouldn't even know! There are great comical moments (sword-fighting with dildo's, beating the hell out of some horny guy who's trying to get it on with one of the guys), some interesting looks at the French (all French girls are very hairy is implied strongly!) and a kick-ass Football game where the three guys actually take on girls!!Sure, the movie is one of your typical teen-comedies, but better. Every few seconds there is something hilarious going on, even my parents found it funny and my dad hates American comedies!!If you don't like funny films, then don't watch it. And for those (a certain other reviewer) who bashed the movie to hell, you gotta realize that the writers of movies can't please everyone!! This is targeted at a specific audience, and I'm glad I'm one of those audiences.I'd rate it 8/10!! If you liked American Pie, Road Trip etc, you'll love this as it's better! "},{"Title":"great movie.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie was totally funny.  those who didn't like it either don't appreciate the type of humor or they were teenie boppers expecting another useless american pie movie.  this movie is defenitely not a teen movie, there's no one in the movie under 21, it takes place in college, there's none of the stupid teen movie stereotypes in it either.  this is a real movie about 3 college dudes getting kicked out of thier frat house cause they were framed for stealing money, so they must dress up like girls to get back in and get evidence.  of course some of the stuff is completely off and jerky, it's supposed to be like that.  it's a funny movie.  at least 8/10 "},{"Title":"Michael Rosenbaum is the sexiest man alive!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just have one thing to say about all the bad reviews this movie has recieved--Mother's Ass!!!  This movie had me rolling on the floor the whole time! The outrageous humor and hilarious scenarios kept me wanting more. This movie deserves to be in the comedy hall of fame! "},{"Title":"group effort","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Movies are a group effort.Imagine that everyone posting here had to agree on every minute of this film ...before seeing it.  Impossible.  That's making a movie.  That's why a director is hired to do the impossible.My problem seeing it in the theater was not being able to buy beer in the big stadium cups.To those who react with open hostility to this film I say this  If it was called BOYS WILL BE GIRLS and turned out to be MY LEFT FOOT, I'd be some kind of pss'd.  Otherwise, just relax and hate the game, player.  Nobody is trying to trick you.  To the critics who say that the boys looked like... boys take comfort.  The characters were sketched to resemble the old ladies night Budwiser commercials.  If your fourth wall broke down - you may want to explore why that wall went up in the first place.   For those crying wolf about the rufie scene I submit that rape is a serious crime, and have certain knowledge that nobody was raped in the making of this film. Unless it was the screenwriters.  Finally, everybody just ponder this as you try to fall asleep tonight This is not an important film, but there is a copy of it in the Library of Congress.The movie delivers the funny.  **** it.  I have my copy (still wrapped in plastic) cost me 19.95!  Now, THAT's obscene.  "},{"Title":"Michael Rosenbaum is HOT!","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Those of you who have been here before realize I am not anywhere close to being gay (except while Hercules The Legendary Journeys is on) but Michael Rosenbaum (you know him as Lex Luthor from Smallville) makes a really good looking woman! Sorority Boys is about 20% Tootsie, 30% Animal House, 30% Lame Plug for then WB Stars Rosenbaum and Barry Watson (WB's Baskets Full of Puppies Romp Seventh Heaven), and 20 more percent Lame-Ass Missed Joke Comedy in the vein of Tomcats! You can check... it adds up!Which is more than I can say for the Plot of Sorority Boys, unfortunately!Barry Watson plays Dave, a Senior in College with a Penchant for using women for sex and superficiality to excel in socitey. Dave heads the Social Comittee (having only 2 other members, Adam (Rosenbaum) and Doofer (Rocketman's Harland Williams) for his Frat Kappa Omicron Kappa (KOK, get it?). Their Frat Parties already include Animal House Style debauchery, group sex, and misogyny, especially culminating in the ejection of Dogs (members of the DOG Sorority... How clever!). The entire year is to culminate in a year end frat party with not only the current crop of idiots, but also the alumni (Including Dave's Dad... and some Animal House Alums). Naturally Dave, Adam, and Doofer are in charge of this water-bound Orgy as they are the Society Comittee, and the holder of all the thousands of dollars the KOK Frat has collected for this shindig!Naturally something goes wrong... in the form of the whiny Chapter President stealing all the cash to frame Doofer, Adam and Dave who are in REAL Control of the group! So the boys flee in the hope of preserving their lives just long enough to prove their innocence in the form of a porn tape that accidentally caught the whiny chapter Pres in the act of ripping off the dough!Well, they do what any of us guys would do... they dress up like chicks! Yes! Who wouldn't want to prove your worthiness to rule the roost of a top notch Masculine Fraternity by shaving your legs, dressing like your sister and seducing the nerdiest of your frat brothers? I mean... besides me who wouldn't?So predictably the three new transvestites are forced to join the DOGs to avoid homelessness. The DOGs are ironically led by a Fox named Leah (Melissa Sagemiller). Awkwardness and comedy ensues (especially during some very hott shower scenes in which the near-blind Leah is fooled into believing that Dave is still a woman in spite of the fact that he's poking her in the Butt!)Along the way Dave in REAL Life falls for Leah in REAL life, while Doofer learns how to relate to women, and Adam starts to realize how rough women have it with men like him around! Look honey, a movie AND Lessons.I don't want to ruin this for everyone especially because it's really not that bad (especially the aforementioned shower scene), but everything works out in the end, wrapped up in a cute little pink package!The good in this movie includes the premise. Yeah, like I said, Dustin Hoffman did it first and he did it better (don't even mention Tony Frakin Curtis, Whiners!), but this particular film took time out to attempt to shatter the damaging image College Aged women are forced to live up to along with decrying the Misogyny therein! Too bad it was handled in a Three Stooges Go Gay style film! it was great to see both Stephen Furst and Mark Metcalf in something besides Sci-Fi makeup. Sort of a nod to Animal House albeit a slightly lame one! Also in the good category would be the Brief yet memorable nude scene in the shower. Leah is HOT! Further, Michael Rosenbaum makes the best looking woman since David Foley left the Kids in the Hall! Most of the real laughs are at the hands of Harland Williams' Doofer. He just can't get used to being a woman and talking to women... hearing any woman, even one as ass-ugly as Doofer claim to be addicted to Porn and Masturbation is either HOT or Hilarious! You decide! Lastly, there is some really hot Lesbian Kissing that you can enjoy if you don't realize that one of the Lesbians is actually Barry Watson! Really, all in all it's no that bad!But in the bad category... the plot is a little thin, and you can't help feeling a little set up by the lame sub premeses! Also, Michael Rosenbaum's Adam is consistently referred to as a fat chick. Get real! He looked really hot, and I felt really uncomfortable thinking so. The contrived way that EVERYTHING works out in the end just seems like more of Hollywood's postage stamp cookie cutter endings. I think we're all used to these by now though!In short Sorority Boys isn't one of those films you should buy on DVD immediately, but passing an evening while watching it on cable can't be bad. It's better than PCU for heaven's sake!You know what? Maybe we should all get this on DVD! Yeah! Let's collect these from now on! Check it out! This is actually the THIRD movie in which we see a Lex Luthor in Drag! It's true. Gene Hackman dressed in Drag in The Birdcage, Rosenbaum dressed as a woman in Sweet November, and now he reprises that same concept in Sorority Boys! I believe this could be the beginning of a Beautiful Subgenre! Hell, Terrence General Zod Stamp was in drag in the Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert! Looks like if you cross Clark Kent you wear Lavendar Undies! 3 stars for Sorority Boys (out of 5)... FIVE Stars for the concept of Superman Villains dressing like Women! GIVE ME MORE OF THAT! "},{"Title":"Tribute To Animal House","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Despite its obvious low brow humor, this is a funny film.I would consider it a decent tribute to Animal House and in fact the actors who played the alumni of KOK also made appearances in Animal House.The music, the sorority and frat house names, blended with a Revenge of the Nerds, Caddy Shack and Animal House plot make this film worth watching.  "}{"Title":"Smartly written stupid humor...","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hey, I think people have been way too hard on this little movie. It's not meant to be an intellectually stimulating experience... it's supposed to be light comedy - and you know what - it succeeds! Sorority Boys happens to be HILARIOUS!!! So yeah, maybe the plot is ridiculous, but so what.. unlike so many other brain-dead college flicks, the humor in this movie actually compels you to laugh out loud and then keep going - now isn't that the goal of comedy? I'd call this smartly written stupid humor, so there.  "},{"Title":"Good but...","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... not great! sure, it had it's moments and good characters but that is all that kept it afloat... if anything. In order to get some tape back, three stereotypical frat boys dress up as three... good-on-the-inside girls and join the DOG house. now I wish I could give you more description but that is all the scratchy, tiny plot lets on. Aside from that, it's full of quick, easy, overdone, and not to mention, immature jokes that are supposed to carry out the movie entirely. One good thing was Michael Rosenbuam. Adam was cute and watching him try to play a woman was equally adorable. In fact, if it weren't for Michael I probably would not like this movie whatsoever               "},{"Title":"bad movie","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was really looking forward to this movie.  Yet, they just made a carbon copy of Tootsie and Little Sister.  You would think that Hollywood could come up with an original script involving men impersontaing women.  It's always the same.  Man has dilemma.  Man must become a woman to solve dilemma.  Man finds attractive girl while pretending to be a woman.  Man falls for girl.  Man wants to tell girl he is a man, cause she thinks hes a woman.  Man reveals himself in the end, and they fall in love.  Give me a break.  Those guys could never, ever pass as a female.  This was a stupid, stupid movie. "},{"Title":"not worth it","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This trial at another Animal House fails to meet that criterion.  It is puerile in concept.  There are few saving graces for this infantile rendition of an adolescent movie and one should not waste the dollars at the cinema on it.  I cannot give it a rating better than a 4, but perhaps even that is too generous. Even so, I am embarrassed to say, but I did laugh a few times. "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  one of the worst films I have ever seen. not funny (maybe for kids 12 yrs or younger) bad actors/uninteresting characters. lame story.  "},{"Title":"funny, but not really meaningful","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a funny movie. However, it doesn't really have much meanings.You can have a good laugh, but it is not a movie that you want to see it over and over.The make-ups are not very good. I don't think that they have picked the three right guys. If they are suppose to be in college, then the casting director should have picked 3 guys that are really young. Those three actors are quite old to be in fraternities, and I can see their mustache through the makeups. "},{"Title":"Cross dressing men move into a women's boarding house. Mildly funny. Not riveting cinema. One Fly Out Of Five","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorority Boys goes to great deal of trouble trying to sell a politically correct message, but not one anyone could possibly believe. This is `comedy' and really, the film makers don't care. Neither should we I suppose.The boys,(Barry Watson, Harland Williams and Michael Rosenbaum) have been kicked out of their men's, Fraternity House at University and in drag have been accepted into a women's or Sorority house. There they see things from a women's point of view. They become progressively feminised and perhaps turn into the sorts of modern men that most women would love to see.So much for the boring stuff in Sorority Boys. This is the sort of film that lifts when it is at its lowest. The homophobic elements become fairly amusing as do men falling about in short skirts and high heals. Cheap laughs are just that, easily won and if the P.C. cap is left at the door, as it is usually these days, Sorority Boys will provide some chuckles.Adam's (Michael Rosenbaum) tryst with his erstwhile little brother Jimmy (Tony Denman) at the Frat House was good for a giggle or two but it was hard to buy the rest. And it's obvious that films like Sorority Boys do little to entice people to behave more nicely towards one another. But again it's obvious I've missed the point.One Cross Dressed Fly Out Of Five  "},{"Title":"Frat Boys in drag... can we ask for more??","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SORORITY BOYS STARRING Barry Watson, Harland Williams, and Michael RosenbaumSorority Boys is the perfect teen movie. Frat boys, sorority girls, crazy parties, drinking, drugs, sex, college scene. What could a teenage movie ask more of? Guys dressed as girls ((And actually look pretty convincing!)) Sorority Boys is one of the funniest - and perverted- teen movies to come out in a long time. Even if you dont appreciate the teen genre, you'll appreciate this movie. It's got something for boys, something for girls, something for adults and of course... the young adults. Guaranteed, if you've got a good sense of humor... you'll love this movie.I give this film **** stars out of *****.  "},{"Title":"A lame attemp at combining ANIMAL HOUSE and BOSOM BUDDIES.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SORORITY BOYS  *___  College Comedy Barry Watson, Harland Williams, Melissa SagenmillerThree college men are thrown out of their fraternity and decide to join a Sorority instead. The men soon learn to appreciate women's point of view and ultimately help the women to right some wrongs perpetrated by their former fraternity. You could characterize SORORITY BOYS as ANIMAL HOUSE meets BOSOM BUDDIES. That's a fine concept. Unfortunately, the writing is uninspired and this film lives up to neither. The plot line is thin, and mainly consists of attempts at humor deriving from men saying and doing things only women ordinarily do. There's a fair amount of sexual humor (or attempted humor), but overall I thought SORORITY BOYS was harmless. No explosions. No car chases. Just lame. "},{"Title":"A hellacious retelling of an immature film...","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Toilet humour has always been the easiest method of acquiring laughs. No matter how serious a person can be, a plastic penis swordfight, or perverse sexual humour will at least elicit even the slightest laugh. Yet, upon watching the newest gross-out, perverse fraternity film &#145;Sorority Boys', one will emit laughter for the first ten minutes of this film that proves to be a sin to cinema.     This film might have been good looking on paper, yet if it were, none of that brilliance has been transplanted on screen.  While viewing the film, one cannot help to feel a certain sense of embarrassment for our three male characters who are forced to dress up as women in what deems to be one of the most antiquated thematic plots in film.       The film's wafer-thin treatment is written so as to have toilet humour as the main point of evolvement for laughter. Yet, what worked in &#145;National Lampoon's Animal House' does not categorically function on screen in this film.      Three college students are forced out of their dorm after the Fraternity's money is stolen. 7th Heaven's Barry Watson stars as Dave who becomes Daisy, Smallville's Lex Luthor played by Michael Rosenbaum portrays Adam, who turns into Adina, and under appreciated Canadian actor Harland Williams plays Doofer, who becomes Roberta. Out of all three, Michael Rosenbaum gives the most solid (If I can use this word for a film such as this) performance as a weight obsessed she-male. Evidently, Rosenbaum must have shot this film while on hiatus from &#145;Smallville'; his fake male hairpiece poorly hides his bald head. These three men when forced out of the dorm contemplate a plan that would give them free room and board and access to the Surveillance tape that would prove their innocence.     This film is a concrete example on the objectification of women within cinema and it sustains no minute detail of an actual shred of intelligence. I am fully aware of what the film's aim was; in addition I also am fully aware that I would be encompassed with twisted, perverse gags within the film. Yet, I was expecting to be treated as a viewer who had intelligence. Instead this film feeds the viewer stupidity repeatedly for a relentlessly appalling 90 minutes. The laughs end after the 10-minute mark because the remainder of the film recycles these same elements and attempts at milking our funny bone with the exact nonsense seen earlier yet in a different vein.     Director Wallace Wolodarsky fails miserably at capturing the essence of what makes some fraternity films a classic. While our three main characters dressed as women gain access to a rival female fraternity, more nonsense ensues.  Director Wolodarsky creates the most ridiculously convenient ideas in order to place our three male characters who are dressed as women in very sexual situations. One such example shows the contact lenses missing from one of the female's eyes therefore the woman cannot see a fully-grown man showering with her. This Director is fixated of showcasing flying plastic penises and foreign exchange students with hairy armpits that he loses track of decency and a molecule of intelligence.     Of course, there is always a moral tale to be learned. And while these three men were merely days ago mocking the same women who are housing them, they become acquainted with the feelings these woman harbour and in turn aid them at an uprising against the oppressor; the male fraternity.     If one were to dissect this film for it's cinematic elements, one would become slowly insane. What is even more insane is how a talented actress such as Heather Matarazzo (The Devils' Advocate, Welcome to the Dollhouse) finds herself tarnishing her resume with this brute piece of film. On a final note, the discerning viewer will realize when this film has hit &#145;rock-bottom'. When you have two of your main characters in a poorly choreographed act of swordplay with gag-penises, it leaves something to be desired.  Giancarlo's rating *  "}{"Title":"What Shakespeare Might Have Written Today","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the kind of fluff that you might dismiss until you realize that you sat through the thing smiling, laughing and feeling pretty damn good, despite its silliness. The thing chugs right along breezily, with twists and turns and subplots and lots of likable characters. The premise, which is ridiculous, that three boys dress up as girls in order to gain entrance into a sorority, through which they will gain entrance (as guests) into a fraternity house, in which there is an important video tape that they need to steal in order to serve vengeance on a really evil frat brother who did them ill is nothing less than Shakespearean. Once you let yourself go with the premise, which is made easier by the high farce pitch of everyone's character, you can really enjoy yourself. There are many Midsummer Night's Dream type of encounters, like the lesbian sorority sister who falls for the boy in drag, but then has to decide when he reveals himself to be male if she loves about him/her beyond his/her gender. There's a delightful mishap when a frat boy, who only goes for dogs in order to deflower and then humiliate them, has an encounter with his older brother who, while in drag, becomes his next prey. The older brother needs to get the video tape from the younger brother in the frat, and they both have a plot involving rufies to knock each other out. This type of stuff had them roaring in the Globe Theater, both the groundlings and the patricians, and I found myself (a middle-aged English teacher) enjoying this happy flick right along with the teenagers in the house. I recommend it for its snappy plot development, lots of laughs and moral lessons, and lovely subplot resolutions in the finale. "},{"Title":"Joe Jarvis and Greg Coolidge are two of the finest writers around today...","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS***...and if you believe that you should leave this review right now.  Truth be told, they have written as sloppy and overly stupid as a comedy (if you can call it that) can get.  They make not only the principal characters ultimately lame brains, but also do it to the people who are supposed to be the smarter people on campus, being here the girls.  The college looks like one of those typical colleges with all the usual dorms and frat and sorority houses, but what I was wondering was how these people got into the college in the first place; I know this is supposed to be a stupid comedy and not to be taken seriously, but it stretches it so far that you might wonder if these cretins could get into a community college in, well, any county in Oklahoma.Basic plot- Dave, Doofer and Adam get kicked out of their frat house after being accused of embezzling funds from the frat house safe, and figure out to get back in the house dressed up as chicks on a ladies night to retrieve a videotape claiming their innocence.  This goes awry when they get unintentionally thrown into the sorority house where the girls never guess once NOT ONCE! that the new girls could be boys.  But, I see, that's what's part of the joke of the movie.  Well, it doesn't work, and it goes flacid so fast it would make Howard Stern look like John Holmes.  In fact the only reason this film gets the + after the letter is because of a couple of amusing lines from Williams, yet even he can't do much to save this deep down unmemorable and just bad comedy.  F+ "},{"Title":"Another American Pie rip off","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is another comedy that tries to be something like American Pie or Road Trip, but different plot, different actors, different characters, but the same jokes. It's simply not funny any more. Yes, we don't have naughty teens or pie jokes, but we have ugly girls who are members of something like a sect and 3 idiots who as I remember were virgin and got at the sec instead of another place, they wanted to be at. Nothing special and I have to say I didn't laugh at it and some jokes were just stupid and the balance between romance and comedy is broken and the movie is a mess between these 2 genres. Of course I like some scenes. They were entertaining and considering the fact that more and more comedies try to be like American Pie, I cannot bash that one like it is the only one. Overacting, bad soundtrack which is a bad factor, because acting doesn't matter in movies like this, but soundtrack does. At least these are my impressions and I think soundtrack takes a big part of American Pie's huge success in building a whole new genre.Needless movie, but if you are in really good mood and you have free time to lose, rent it. "},{"Title":"Turn off your brain and enjoy","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Generally this film is a rubbish movie. 3 boys are too sexist and chauvinist. They are accused of theft, thrown out their dorm, dress as girls. discover how badly men treat females and want to change their ways. you know they are going to find the real thief and learn their lesson along the way.a few things - touch football, rules? are they the same as gridiron, because the ref calling that game didn't know his job. lots of personal fouls, half the pretty girls would have been off the field in minutes.generally the film is OK if you watch it with no brain. it's nothing to do with cross dressing really. just a bunch of guys learning not to be sexist. "},{"Title":"Club KOK","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorrority boys was the funniest movie I have ever seen!The three guys that stared in this movie, they dress up as chicks to get into a girls club. They looked like they were half man and half woman to me.I liked it for the the time that geek yelled out to the guy dressed up that she's a dog, then he drops his handbag on the ground, picks up a stone and throws it at his car and the back windscreen smashes and the guy crashes.LOL! Another is when they removed their wigs in front of everyone at a party and one of the girls say in horror Daisy! You look like a man!And the biggest laugh was right at the end of the credits, the girls ate each other!!! HA!HA!HA!Sorority Boys is just a hysterical comedy and it will leave you breathless after you've watched it!9/10 "},{"Title":"Sorority Boys sucks, It's just stupid.","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After the first five minutes of this movie, I was scared that if I  continued, it'd be a complete waste of my time and I was so right. It's totally awful. I think that this kind of humor may have appealed to me when I was between 5 and 12. I like mindless humor occasionally but this isn't even that, it's just a STUPID film. It doesn't even deserve half a star out of five. I wish I'd never bothered. "},{"Title":"sick humour","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This reminds me of the 80's party movies.  The characters were likeable people but sick.  A lot of this humour could be described as offense.  My wife and I like this movie; we laughed all through it.  It gave males an in depth into  the female behavior.  It's good for a laugh.  It is not a serious movie. "},{"Title":"A bad movie","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Sorority Boys' is so bad and so stupid it almost becomes fun again. Almost is not enough. The story is something I will not discuss because when other things are right in a movie like this, the story doesn't need to be very good. The jokes need to be funny. Here they are not, although I had one big laugh somewhere. Unfortunately it was just one.For the stupid things we can start with the three guys dressed up as girls. Those things can be pretty funny but not when the three guys look like guys in women clothes. The movie has done nothing to actually make these guys look like girls. What is even more stupid is that we as the audience are the only people who see that, apparently.This is not everything. The guys who do not look like girls end up in a house where only girls live. You can say that these people are not the most beautiful girls, although one of them is played by Heather Matarazzo. Another one Leah (Melissa Sagemiller), who is sort of the leader of the group, is actually very beautiful and that girl is exactly the one who dressed up Dave (Barry Watson) is falling in love with. The other two guys are called Adam (Michael Rosenbaum) and Doofer (Harland Williams), just for the record.If this movie could be good in another way I don't know. I think the idea has some nice things and a lot of oppertunities. When they stop with the idea and try to do it this simple I feel a little disappointed. If you want to see a funny movie about a man in women clothes you better watch something like 'Tootsie' or' Mrs. Doubtfire'. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, unfunny, unintelligent, un-everything...","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow, what a load of dump the studio dumped on us this time. Opening in March should be a sign right there. Maybe I could have pictures this a few months ago when nothing good came out and people were desperate, and even then, I'd still laugh at you for wasting your money. I saw this thing free at a screening and I still feel ripped off. I'd rather have done nothing. The plot is less than standard. The premise is unoriginal considering we've seen it in Some Like It Hot, Tootsie, and Bosom Buddies (which was much more entertaining than this, at least that had Tom Hanks). Oh yeah, the star power you'll be sure to recognize as That guy from 7th Heaven and That guy from Half-Baked. Top quality talent there folks (Note sarcasm).I couldn't imagine anyone giving this thing a good review without being paid to lie. For those of you who see the 7th Heaven guy and you like his show, no, you won't like this one. Those of you who see the Half Baked guy and like his movie, no, sorry you won't like this one and if you do, you smoked yourself retarded. It wasn't quite as bad as Not Another Teen Movie, but it ranks up there. I got a chuckle but mostly from the amazing amounts of stupidity that was put into this movie as well as the uncanny resemblance to a college television show which it seems lines and skits are taken straight from it. The thought put into this movie had to be done by people with IQ's rivaling that of peanut butter. Seriously, you've seen it before, there are better movies out (finally), and even if you like cheap humor and eye candy, this either does it badly or lacks it nearly entirely. Go see American Pie, or the sequel, or some other intelligent or funny teen movie. Hell, go rent some of the 80's teen movies. It'll be more worth your time than watching this piece of dump. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of the year so far","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw SORORITY BOYS last night and the first thing I noticed about the movie was how great the comedic performances by Barry Watson (Teaching Mrs. Tingle), Harland Williams (Dumb & Dumber, There's Something About Mary, Half Baked, and Freddy Got Fingered), and Michael Rosenbaum (TV's Smallville) were. These guys have incredible comedic talent and because of it, each scene provides a healthy serving of laughs. Melissa Sagemiller (Get Over It and Soul Survivors) does a good job as the leader of DOG sorority and be sure to look for Stephen Furst in a brief cameo. Not for the easily offended, but for everyone else, it should be fun to watch. I'd give it three stars out of four. "}{"Title":"It's a simple,no-brainer comedy.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There seem to be a glut of gender-bending comedies around at the moment. This one, Juwanna Mann, The Hot Chick. And like their predecessors Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire, they all share one thing in common. Getting cheap laughs by putting men in frocks.Other people have commented how the three boys in this movie still look like guys in drag. I think that was the general idea. It wouldn't be  funny if the actors actually looked like women when in drag, would it.But this is the same old tired formula of men experiencing things from a women's perspective and becoming the better person for it. And along the way there are a few cheap laughs and the obligatory man-pretending-to-be girl getting p***ed off at someone/thing and resorting to violence scene. There's also the undercurrent where the boys help the girls to overcome their lack of self-esteem which is mildly offensive due to the implication that they couldn't have done it by themselves.It's not a bad movie, by any means. But it's not that good either. There are also some horribly stupid moments which bear no relation to reality - but then I guess the whole film bears little relation to reality.Anyhow, check your disbelief in at the door and its a simple,no-brainer comedy. "},{"Title":" horrible a disgrace to disney","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this film is the most horrible film i have ever seen in my life guys dressing in drag the thought of it is just sicking to think about. kids should not see this it will rot there mind. i gave this film a 1 for being disgraceful it was a waste of my money. i wish i did not see it "},{"Title":"How about beta alpha delta? or sigma upsilon xi?","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  They don't have a clue, do they? They just don't have a clue. Look at the feminist handing out leaflets outside a party at the start - that's what feminists do, isn't it hand out leaflets? And they talk about the objectification of women, don't they? That's as much as the writers seem to have grasped; even though I wouldn't have the first idea how to construct a screenplay, I think I could write a more pointed parody, of ANY viewpoint at all, while half-asleep and drunk. And this lazily sketched woman will turn out to be a major character.For the first forty minutes or so we're served nothing but old leftovers from the bottom shelves of the larder of popular culture, so stale and musty and unappetising it's impossible to tell when they were put there in the first place, or why. The guys are rowdy (that's it, that's all they are); the chicks sit around in a circle and talk chick stuff. It's excruciating.Towards the end there's the odd touch of humour and the story turns unexpectedly sweet, sort of, in a kind of a way; and this feels good, even refreshing, as you'd expect mediocrity to feel after a painful ordeal of laboured badness.But comparatively good isn't the same thing as good. Is there anything REALLY good about the movie? Yes, there is the poster. It has an unusually clever design as movie posters go. I like it. I also like the fact that it doesn't constitute false advertising it doesn't make the movie look as though it will be anything other than a dog. Or as the screenplay so wittily puts it in Greek letters, a delta omicron gamma. Ho ho. "},{"Title":"Missed opportunity. 1/2* (out of four)","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SORORITY BOYS / (2002) 1/2* (out of four)Believe it or not, I was actually looking forward to Sorority Boys. I hoped it would be different from the recent explosion of aimless sex comedies considering the ample comic opportunities. Unfortunately, five minutes into the movie, when a Jell-O dildo crashed threw a window, I realized my expectations were incorrect. At this point, I knew this would be 94 minutes of pure, aimless sex comedy. Sex can be funny, sometimes, but not as often as Hollywood likes to think. Am I the only person getting sick and tired of these pathetic attempts at humor?The surprising thing about Sorority Boys is how much potential the story actually has. Harland Williams, Michael Rosenbaum, and Barry Watson play three members of Kappa Omicron Kappa fraternity who find themselves evicted from the KOK for stealing party funds. Somebody has a video tape of the incident, but very few people know it exists, and their ex-fraternity pals will not allow them back inside to retrieve it. After learning that the Delta Omicron Gamma house needs new members, they disguise themselves in drag in order to stay somewhere and concoct a plan to prove their innocence.  Even with potentially funny situations directly under its brow, the movie's humor resorts to characters tumbling down staircases and silly lipstick jokes. The script, by Joe Jarvis and Greg Coolidge, desperately lacks imagination. The plot is so handicapped of ideas, it becomes wound up in a love story so out of place, even the actors involved look as if they think it belongs in a different movie altogether. Although we've seen guys in drag before (in much better movies), this film is not without unique humorous intentions. In one scene, two characters sword fight with large dildos; in another, the men in drag lead the DOG members against the KOK's in a game of football-they are the first three to hit the bench due to injuries. Again, these are funny concepts, but director Wallace Wolodarsky doesn't find a punch line. The idea of two guys fighting with dildos is funny, but watching them actually fight for five minutes is not. There is no moment when the audience identifies with the humor and laughs. The visualization of the jokes are so utterly stupid; the audience couldn't laugh at these sight gags if they wanted to. Sorority Boys simply expects us to laugh at the utter stupidity of the characters. But that doesn't work when the movie is equally as stupid.  "},{"Title":"Not totally horrible--but not good either","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Three obnoxious college boys (Barry Watson, Michael Rosenbaum, Harland Williams) treat girls like dirt and enjoy it. They are (wrongfully) accused of stealing money from their fraternity KOK (ha ha). They decide to disguise themselves as girls until they can clear their names. They get into a sorority DOG (ha ha). While there, they bring the sorority back to life, realize they've treated women horribly and become better people in the process.**SIGH** This plot is so overused and lame--it's been done MANY times before (dating back to Tootsie in the 1980s). Also it's very sexist--women are treated consistently as sex objects and there's plenty of gratuitous female nudity. Also these women hate themselves until a man teaches them how to love themselves. All the jokes are obvious--but I laughed long and loud more than once. This isn't a good movie (I gave it a 3), but for what it is it's not bad. It could have been a lot worse. Compared to crap like Saving Silverman and Tomcats, this is almost a classic!The cast is young and appealing and give this weak material their all--that helps a lot. Barry Watson especially is very good--he looks very attractive as a woman and really handsome as a man. And those eyes...!So, not a good movie and don't pay full price for it. But still OK. "}]